Do you believe America has no official language? The vast majority of people would probably answer English is an official language in the United States. Actually, English is the language that is most widely spoken in America. The United States has never declared any official language. Although many Americans assume that English is the official language of United States, it is not. That is to say, nowhere in the United States Constitution is English privileged over other languages, and no subsequent federal law established English as the language of the land. However, the legislations, courts, schools, and most other institutions go about their daily business as if English was indeed the official national tongue (Daniel, 1990).
The limited research on public attitude toward official English legislation has focused on how socioeconomic and political attributes are correlated with support or opposition to the laws. All the polling during the Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, and Texas campaigns showed a lopsided majority support English as an official language in the United States (Theodore, 1964, pp.173-174). However, the United States of America is also a nation of immigrants, which means to declare English as an official language would abridge the rights of individuals. As a result, the issues rise up whether official English is practical or not. Some people consider that official English is necessary. Some are opposed to English as an official language in the United States. The evidence from source, English as an official language in the United States is practical, including its limits, unity, universality, and history.
Official English only limits federal government, not others. Official English limits requirements on the federal government documents that provide services in languages other than English. It would not limit states, private businesses, communities, or families. Some people pointed out that official English are not necessary and practical because the United States policy is working well without an official language. The Unites States and 20 of its constituent states, such as Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, Louisiana, Maine, and some other states in America have a good policy instituted without any official language. However, this is because official English only limits federal government. It does not limit the other aspects of government. The government needs an official language to deal with some problems. Official English is common sense government. The designation of official English will eliminate the needless duplication of government to provide services in multiple languages (Clarence, 1982, pp.111-112).
Official English is necessary and practical because people think official English promotes unity. American is a "melting pot, "melding people into one big family. This long tradition of assimilation has always included the adoption of English as the common means of communication. A study published by the United States Department of Labor found that immigrants are slower to learn English when they receive a lot of native language support (1992). Therefore, this division of the United States into separate language groups contributes to racial and ethnic conflicts. Designating English as the official language will help reverse this harmful process. Some people point out that those official English discriminates against non-English speakers. Language rights are protected under Civil Rights Laws. On Opposing Views.com: "Language is not only a barrier to communication, but also an identifying characteristic of an individual's ethnicity and national origin. Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination based in race, ancestry, national origin or ethnicity." (2011). However, official English does not refer to discrimination. Also, this is not about race. According to English Plus Information Clearinghouse, was established as a joint project of the National Immigration, Refugee, and Citizenship Forum and the joint National Committee for Languages, language-related measures have been introduced in Congress as a result of efforts by coalitions to promote alternative language policies. One bill, the English Proficiency Act was brought before Congress at the request of a coalition of national Hispanic organizations concerned about the paucity of literacy classes available for limited-English-proficient individuals in the United States. Another bill, the Cultural and Language Amendment Conceived by the Federation of American Cultural and Language Communities, it recognizes the " right of people to preserve, foster, and promote their respective historic, linguistic, and cultural origins." The official English movement has managed, over the course of just a few years, to bring the issue of language rights in the United Stated to be a positive step (John, 1965). The evidence shows that official English have not discrimination trend to the non-English speakers. Furthermore, protecting all the rights of non-English speakers shows that official English setting in the United Stated is not discrimination. It is kind of unity for people in the United States to speak English.
English could be seen as the official language in the United Stated because it is spoken widely. In figure 1 below, it can be seen that English is most commonly spoken in the United Stated. 82.1% of people speak English. 2.7% of people speak Chinese or Arabic. 3.8% of people speak Italian. 10.7% of people speak Spanish. 0.7% of people speak other languages. According
Figure 1: Most commonly spoken languages in the United States
to this chart, English is the most commonly spoken languages in the United States.
English is also spoken widely throughout the world. In figure 2, a vast majority 26.8% of people speaks English. 24.2% of people speak Chinese. 7.8% of people speak Spanish. 4.7% of people speak Japanese. 3. 9 % of people speak Portuguese. 3.6% of people speak German. 3.3% of people speak Arabic. 3% of people speak Russian. 3% of people speak French. 2 % of people speak Korean. According to figure 2, English is spoken widely through the world. Therefore, English as an official language is practical, there should be no problems adopting English nationally. Some people consider that the rest of the states in the United States are opposed English as an official language because local government should not oppress minority non-English speakers. The main reason is that it is discrimination against non-English speakers, violating their right to certain forms of protection under the law. (2011).
Figure 2: English Spoken throughout the world
However, According to Constitution of Alabama, English is the official language of the state of Alabama. The legislature shall enforce this amendment by appropriate legislation. The legislature and officials of the states of Alabama shall take all steps necessary to insure that the role of English as the common language of the state of Alabama is preserves and enhanced. The legislature shall make no law which diminishes or ignores the role of English as the common of the state of Alabama. Any person who is a resident of or doing business in the state of Alabama shall have standing to sue the state of Alabama to enforce this amendment, and courts of record of the state of Alabama shall have jurisdiction to hear cases brought to enforce this provision. The legislature may provide reasonable and appropriate limitations on the time and manner of suits brought under this amendment (1990, p.263). Furthermore, according to Arizona Constitution, English as the official language is applicability. As the official language of this State, the English language is the language of the ballot, the public school and all government functions and actions. Requiring this State to preserve, protect and enhance English is official language. This state and all political subdivisions of this State shall take all reasonable steps to preserve, protect and enhance the role of the English language as the official language of the State of Arizona. Prohibiting this State from using or requiring the use of languages other than English is written in the law. This State and all political subdivisions of this State shall act in English and in no other language (1988, pp.263-264).
Official English has been used in the United States historically. The Unites States was founded by 13 British colonies. Both the United States Declaration of Independence and Constitution are written in English. English an official language in the United States is acceptable. Some people argue official English would not change any policies. Even though Official English has been used historically, other languages instead of English will not change its rules. For example, English is the official language of California, but the California Department of Motor Vehicle still prints the Driver License Handbook in at least 8 other languages. Actually, long time, or history cannot change rules itself. However, the precursor to the landmark 1924 act was the Quota Act of 1921, a stopgap measure to expire one year later, which imposed the first immigration quotas in the United States history by specifying that no more than a number equaling 3 percent of the foreign-born population of each nationality residing in the United States in 1910 could be admitted in any year, It thus introduced the concept of national origins quotas. Thus, support for immigration restrictions was greatest in some states where political leaders faced almost no threat of electoral reprisal from foreign-born constituents. This situation offers an interesting parallel with the politics of English only today. In four states with a substantial minority of Spanish speakers, the legislature failed, or more accurately refused, to enact official English bills that were introduced (Washington, 1924, pp.71-74). According National Origins Act, official English has been used originally. It presents English for this country has great meaning. So, people should respect language history.
Above all, official English is practical because official English limits federal government, not others. English should be as an official language because it is widely spoken. Official English is necessary and practical because people think official English promotes unity. Official English has been used in the Unites States historically. The official language should be the language historically and presently written and spoken by the overwhelming majority of Americans. If that were Spanish or German or even Urdu, then the official language should correspond. But the language written and spoken by all but a relative handful of American citizens has been, and for the foreseeable future will be, English (Clarence, 1982, pp.111-112). The common language is not in jeopardy. The danger lies not in the loss of English as the common language of the United States, but in the loss of an international view of people's roles in the world.
Some people believe that an English-only viewpoint is an isolationist viewpoint. It reduces other languages to their least communicative and useful function. The function indicates a certain level of education, but otherwise it is not a practical use (Stalker, 1974, p. 67). However, the United States Department if Education has proposed regulations that would require public schools to teach children with limited command of English in their native language while they learn English and that would preclude other methods of introduction such as intensive instruction in English alone (Fallows, 1987, pp.378-388). English is the national and unifying language of the many peoples who have become known simply as Americans and who speak with one tongue, and there is empirical experience to demonstrate that non-English speaking students learn English most rapidly when they are not instructed in their native language (Bennett, 1992, p.197-198).
People should consider another aspect of the world. Declaring English as Official English will eventually require that people learn one kind of English. In other words, Official English legislation will affect native speakers of English as well as Americans whose native language in not English. The United States of America has attained hope, strength, and preeminence in world affairs through the unified effort of its diversified peoples, and continued and lasting unification of those diversified peoples offers the greatest promise of success when it is accomplished with a cultural fabric of one language which is spoken, written, and understood by all, and the reliance of a society on a single language facilitates the exchange of ideas, feelings, beliefs, and information and facilitates the full integration of all its members (1968, pp.266-267). Evidences prove that English is practical.
