If a member of your family kills a person, can you accept that he or she gets the death punishment for the victim's life? And, if somebody kills a member of your family, do you want the murderer to get capital punishment for your family's life? There are two sides to their answer to capital punishment. Controversially, most people's answer of the first question probably is "No". And the second question is possibly "Yes". This means capital punishment can't have a unified answer that is doomed. Nowadays more and more countries stop using the death penalty. According to Amnesty International, since 2007, 89 counties have abolished death penalty for all crimes, 10 countries have abolished death penalty foe most crimes, except special circumstances, 30 countries have death penalty but haven't use it for 10 or more years, and 68 countries still continue to use the death penalty(Amnesty International). And counties who have capital punishment are better off than countries that don't have it. This essay will argue that capital punishment should be abolished because it hurt human rights, doesn't prevent crime, is expensive, and is necessary.
It is a fact that jurisprudence never can be perfect; it can't declare somebody guilty accurately. Sometimes, evidences are can not truth to. It is hard to decide who is innocent and who is guilty justly. Some people who were killed by law may be innocent. People can't imagine the feeling about getting capital punishment without guilt. But it is happening in the world. There are those who are wrongly accused and convinced of a crime. For example, there is such poor person whose name is Gelingule in China. When he discovered a woman's corpse and called the police, he never image he would become the murderer in the case. But it happened. Police believed that he sexually assaulted and killed the woman. Then, Gelingule called the police as an action which could clean his suspicions. China in 1990 did not have enough resource to have a DNA test to indicate Gelingule was innocent. They just proved he has the same blood type as the woman's corpse. So, he was executed for murder and rape in 1990. But in 2010, a murderer whose name is Zhihong Zhao involved in a serial killing was captured. And he admits his guilt in all of the cases he did. The first case is the Gelingule's case, he acknowledge he is the true murderer. When Gelinbgule's mother known it, she said with crying, "People all know my son is innocent, but he never can back to home!" (Tudou). The poor mother is very sad and looks like very haggard. But nobody can bring her son back. Capital punishment really hurt human rights in some times.
If people think this tragedy can only happened in China because of China's unsound legal institutions, some evidences can show the answer is wrong. In fact, these things do not just happen in China, it also happens in American with its developed legal institutions. There are also a lot innocent people who were treated unjustly in America. For example, from 1900-2007, 426 people convicted of capital crimes, were later found innocent in America . 403 of them were released from death row, 23 of them had already been executed (Deathpenaltyinfo). America has a very severe process to deal with capital crime cases. It still can't avoid mistakes that kill innocent people. What about other countries? Capital punishment has been around long time, so more innocent people must have been killed. Government can kill people without guilt and then it became a new murderer. Nobody can punish people of government. It is very dangerous to the public. This situation could happen to anyone.
But on other hand, some countries, like China and America have capital punishment and some people believe capital punishment is very effective. There are two reasons. At first, it can avoid murderer to do killing again. John Mc Adams, a professor at Department of Political Science of Marquette University, on deterrence, has said, "If we execute murderers and there is in fact no deterrent effect, we have killed a bunch of murderers. If we fail to execute murderers, and doing so would in fact have deterred other murders, we have allowed the killing of a bunch of innocent victims. I would much rather risk the former. This, to me, is not a tough call"?prodeathpenalty?. Clearly, John Mc Adams supports capital punishment. He believes the number of innocent people who are executed is very small and murderers' life isn't important. A killer can destroy other's life once, and they may do it again more easily than normal people. And they can be ignored by most people's benefits and safety. The reason looks like capital punishment can be acceptable. But actually there is a more effective method to prevent people from hurting other again. It is make sure murderer in prison without parole and release. It also can avoid people do bad thing again.
The other reason is that death penalty can deter people who want to kill others. Before people kill other people, they will think of death penalty maybe is waiting for them. It can reduce the number of murderers and other felonies. Death penalty acts not just a legal punishment, but also a warning to stop people to do something very bad to others. Take Japan as an example.. Japan rarely use the death penalty but always keeps it, because some psychologists argue that it has an important psychological role to play in the life of the Japanese, who live under severe stress and pressure in work place(BBC). Capital punishment conveys the belief that something bad will happen when something bad to others. So people will think twice. The reason looks reasonable and acceptable. But actually, it isn't. Capital punishment in different countries has different effects. In fact, some people's researches show death punishment is not very effective in America. Bailey & Peterson's study show ?"The available evidence remains 'clear and abundant' that, as practiced in the United States, capital punishment is not more effective than imprisonment in deterring murder." Perhaps not having freedom in whole life is the best punishment in America.
There is a very big problem, and that is money. In the USA capital punishment costs a great deal. For example, the cost of convicting and executing Timothy Mc Veigh for the Oklahoma City Bombing was over $13 million. In New York, since the death penalty was reinstated in 1995, costs for each person condemned to death were approximately $23 million (BBC). It is a really expensive bill to execute criminal. Some people will ask a question: which is more expensive, life imprisonment or capital punishment. The answer is execution. Since 1977, society has been allowing capital punishment but the families of victims have to wait for years to know if the murderer will be executed or serve life in prison. It is a process that needs long time to wait and large money to carry out. The Los Angeles Time reported that it costs California taxpayers $136 million to keep a murderer in prison for life, but more than $250 million if that criminal is executed (Latimes). Thus, the cost of killing a criminal is twice the cost of keeping a criminal in prison. Taxpayers have to pay more money to kill someone they don't know.
Some people talk about the question of fairness. They think money isn't a issue when it come to justice. The opinion sounds like very selfless. But it is can't be accepted. For example, there are two sides to this as well. One side is the family of the murderer. And the other side is families of the victims. They both are taxpayers. Families of victims always think about why let the killer alive and enjoy their life in prison, and victims should pay the money? And the family of murderer maybe thinks about even though the murderer kills other people, the person still is a family member. Why should money to pay a family member? It sounds very ridiculous. But it shows the truth that it never can be a fair question. So, people just can think about all of condition to make some way let it more acceptable. In fact, life imprisonment is also a good punishment for criminal. Let them lose their freedom for their guilty without parole and release. Taxpayers can use less money to make sure people's safety. And this money has two ways to use. One way is keep dangerous people in prison. The other way is keep criminal alive. It is the most justly way to do for capital crime case.
Some people think no parole and no release in prison is so cruel. A lot of people believe that if let them in a prison whole life, they would rather get capital punishment. Actually, modern prison life is not very uncomfortable. By contrast, it is very humanistic. Prisoners can watch TVs, read books, do excises, play games, even were visited their lover in prison depend on human right. The only thing different is that they just can't go outside form prison. But the life in prison itself is comfortable in some way. Look at the picture illustrated below. In one of the most stringently guarded prison in Bosnia and Herzegovina, two prisoners are enjoying exercising in gymnasium. One can hardly know they are in the prison, because this place is just look like the same as outside of prison, and the life there is full of ease and comfort. Taxpayers pay the money that can support murderer can live in prison well, while there are so many decent people remain unemployed outside prison. They can enjoy the life in prison, and at the same time, they can't hurt anyone any more.
Table 1
Compare with capital punishment, the way is very kind to murderer. There are not a lot of countries have much money like America. The cheaper ways to execute death punishment are much crueler. The picture follow can show how death punishment ignores life. People can see how the man dies. And forget the man still is a life. When the gun shot, no people can see the man's head. Just blood and brain people can see. The person can't see the sun in tomorrow and he never can see his family again.
Table2
The world becomes more and more humanistic. Capital punishment should be abolished. And life imprisonment can replace it. There are three reasons. First at all, if people are innocent, they need time to prove they haven't guilt. They won't get capital punishment for some guilt what they didn't. To abolish capital punishment can protect innocent people's rights. The second reason is that capital punishment can't reduce crime rate and it isn't the only way to prevent capital case to happen again. The last reason is that capital punishment is really expensive. The cost of killing a criminal is twice the cost of keeping a criminal in prison so it is a good idea that chooses a cheaper way to punish guilty people. Think above all of things. Even though a lot of counties still have capital punishment, it is clearly shows it isn't necessary. Criminals in prison can't do bad things again, and get adjust punishment.
Work Cited
Bailey WC, Peterson RD. 1997. Murder, capital punishment, and deterrence: a review of the literature. See Bedau 1997a, pp. 135-61
Gary Butner, Exodus 21:22-25: Translations & Mistranslations The New American Standard Bible, 1995 Update, (La Habra, California: The Lockman Foundation) 1996. <http://www.errantskeptics.org/Exodus2122.htm >
Jeffrey M. Jones. "Support for the Death Penalty 30 Years after the Supreme Court Ruling"GALLUP. 30 June, 2006. Web 6 Apr .2011. <http://www.gallup.com/poll/23548/Support-Death-Penalty-Years-After-Supreme-Court-Ruling.aspx>
John Mc Adams,"pro-deathpenalty"PDP.2011. Web 6 Apr .2011. <http://www.prodeathpenalty.com/>
Bedau HA." Is the death penalty cruel and unusual" punishment? See Bedau 1982a, pp. 247-53
BBC. < http://www.bbc.co.uk/ethics/capitalpunishment/against_1.shtml#h7>
LATIMES. < http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/editorials/la-ed-0314-death- 20110314,0,827722.story>
Pat Quinn, " Done with the death penalty California should follow Illinois, the latest state to stop executions." LATIMES. 14 March . 2011. Web . 6 Apr. 2011 < http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/editorials/la-ed-0314-death-20110314,0,827722.story>
DPIC "The innocence list" DPIC. 28 Oct.2011. Web. 6 April .2011. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/innocence-and-death-penalty>
TUDOU< http://www.tudou.com/programs/view/0hl Sfmgb Klg/>
Cheng xiyou . "death punishment with the population of country "GLAYER. 1 Aug .2009. Web . 6 Apr . 2011 <http://www.glawyer.net/new Lawyer Site/Blog Show.aspx?item ID=58527ca2-1d6a-4738-99fb-9c5800c8c3e6&user=10420>
XSNET "You don't known the life in prison"XSNET. 15 JUN . 2009 Web. 6 April 2011 <http://www.xsnet.cn/img/shehui/2009/6/15/909964.shtml>
