Nowadays, there is a hot topic in soccer: how can FIFA solve the erroneous judgment in soccer. There are two different kinds of opinions about this argument from soccer fans around the world. The first group thinks the International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) should use the Hawk-Eye in a soccer match, "The Hawk-Eye is a kind of technology to visually track the path of the ball and display a record of its most statistically likely path as a moving image" (www.wikipedia.com). Because it can reduce or avoid erroneous judgment, this group supports the use of the Hawk-Eye because it treats both teams fairly. On the other hand, the different side thinks that erroneous judgments are part of soccer, and using the Hawk-Eye will cause a lot of pauses during the match. Since the world cup just ended a few months ago, this argument has become a hot topic all around the world. In my opinion, FIFA should use technology in soccer because the soccer players are becoming stronger and faster. Since the trend of speed in sports matches has become faster, the referees will face bigger challenges than before.
* There are some opinions that we do not need replay to help referees judge the match; The FIFA World Cup has been successful for 80 years without instant replay. "It's a game played by human beings, a game with a human face. There is a feeling it would hinder the flow of the game." said David Collins, World Football Association (Debatepedia). This is a strong opinion for why there are lots people do not support to use technology in soccer.
According to Sepp Blatter, FIFA President:
Let it be as it is and let's leave soccer with errors. The television companies will have the right to say the referee was right or wrong, but still the referee makes the decision - a man, not a machine.
The researcher thinks in a soccer match, the referee should be the only men have the right on the soccer pitch.
Some fans also thought that human error is a part of the game, and surprise is one of the reasons why people like this sport. And another important thing in sports is fluency. "Replay officials might mull over a call for 10 or 15 minutes, effectively killing the momentum of the game" (Debatepedia). The momentum of the game is the most important reason people enjoy watching it.
http://dailyintake.wordpress.com/2010/06/28/please-apply-technology-in-football/
(The "goal" was made by English player, but the referee missed it)
A few months ago, the World Cup was held in South Africa. Some people enjoyed the matches, talked about the goals, the good passes, and the superstars. Other people focused on the little, but very important part of matches: erroneous judgment calls by the referee. According to a sports reporter, "In Germany's 4-1 dismantling of England; Frank Lampard was denied an equalizing goal by the referee" (NYDaily News)The TV replay confirmed what was obvious to millions worldwide, who were watching live, that the ball was well over the goal line. And in Argentina's 3-1 triumph over Mexico, Carlos Tevez was clearly offside on his first two goals. After those two mistakes happened, some English soccer fans stated "To put it bluntly, it's time for FIFA to get into the 21st century" (NYDaily News). People think the rules of the soccer game should be changed with the time change.
Because tennis and American Football had used replays in matches, it was tennis that was receptive to the technology much earlier, perhaps thanks to TV replays showing that umpiring mistakes contributed to the defeat of Serena Williams by Jennifer Capriati in the 2004 US Open quarter-finals. "Hawk-Eye provides an instant replay of crucial shots and has also proved an excellent tool for analyzing the strategy and performance of players" (New Scientist).
(http://www.hawkeyeinnovations.co.uk/?page_id=1011&news_id=9&PHPSESSID=e41f249a874bdf8402ba96300439ad22 The track of the ball)
In 2004, The NCAA gave the Big Ten Conference final clearance to experiment with instant replay in football.
The association's Championships and Competition Cabinet endorsed an earlier recommendation by the football rules committee, allowing the Big Ten to use replay in all 44 conference games and, potentially, 22 non-conference games played in Big Ten stadiums next season. The system, if successful, eventually could be adopted nationally (USA Today).
In that year, Instant replay saved a shaky year for officiating. It may slow down the game, but it has become essential.
As the picture shows us, the ball did not go out of bounds the shadow is the track of the ball, even though just a very little part of shadow is on the line. The Referee can see it from the Hawk-eye easily, but if the referee judges this kind of ball by his eyes, it will be very difficult. It means that the result of technology can really help the referee to judge the game fairly in tennis; I think it will be the same in soccer.
Lots of fans think it is time to use technology in soccer. Don Garber, MLS Commissioner, is a supporter of using technology in the match. He says:
At the risk of offending all those people who are the most influential in the sport, as an American sports fan who likes the fact that bad calls can get reversed, I would be a proponent of instant replay. I understand that's an inflammatory statement, but as a personal observer, I believe the right thing should happen on the field. It seems to me that the result of a sporting event generally should be a result of what actually happened on the field as opposed to having a call missed (NYDaily News).
Maybe, an erroneous judgment that can change the end of a game is very normal, and some fans may accept the result but actually, most of fans hope that the end should be decided by the players. Fans carry about how players try their best on the result of a match, referees are just the men who help the match can keep playing.
After the world cup ended in South Africa, the New York Times wrote an issue about an apology from the president of FIFA:
England's and Mexico's misfortunes prompted a previously recalcitrant Sepp Blatter, the president of FIFA, to apologize on refereeing errors and to announce that he would reopen the discussion about the use of goal-line technology in soccer(New York Times).
I think if a president of a country apologized about something, it must be a very important problem. It is the same with soccer; it is the most popular sport in the world, and we should think about some projects to solve this big argument in soccer. The Hawk-eye would be the best solution for this argument.
As everyone knows, soccer is the most popular sport around the world. It is normal for people to argue about some topics for famous sports; different people have different ideas about the same thing. The controversial topic nowadays is erroneous judgment in the soccer. Some people hope that FIFA can use replays to make the match more fair, since it has helped some other sports like basketball and tennis. Other fans believe that error is part of the game, and humans should be the decision makers. Also, some people think the FIFA World Cup has been successful for 80 years without instant replay; it is fine not using the Hawk-Eye in soccer. No matter what the controversy, soccer will not disappear because of one or two arguments; using some technology just like the Hawk-eye to help the referee judge the match is fair to the players on the field and also is good for all the fans. It is big deal for everybody who likes soccer, so FIFA can give us a prefect answer, and that answer should be use the technology in the soccer.
Work Cited
"Debatepedia" Google Research, 11 Nov. 2008. Web. 13 Oct. 2010
"FIFA" Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation. 27 Nov. 2009. Web. 13 Oct. 2010
"Hawk-Eye" Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation. 15 Nov. 2009. Web. 13 Oct. 2010
Hawkinsh, Paul. "You cannot be serious" New Scientist; 4. Mar 2010. Web. 9 Nov. 2010
Lewis, Michael. NYDaily News, NYDaily News. 28 June 2010. Web. Oct 2010
Marcus, Jeffrey. "GOAL; In Shift, Blatter Apologizes For Errors." New York Times . 30 June 2010. Web. 9 Nov. 2010.
Steve, Wieberg. "NCAA approves Big Ten's instant replay experiment" USA Today; 26 Feb 2004. Web. 5 Dec 2010
