With the rapid development of the automobile industry, the number of automobiles keeps increasing rapidly. People buy them for convenience. Contrary to their intentions, a large proportion of drivers find it is also an inconvenience to owe cars. For instances, drivers may be annoyed at parking problems because the parking space is relatively scarce compared to the amount of cars that need to use them. In addition, the traffic jams are also boring for drivers because they waste a large amount of time and money. The increasing number of automobiles is concurrent with increasing traffic accidents and environmental problems. Because the problems caused by increasing automobiles become more and more serious, the development of public transportation is of great significance.
As a Germany marketing research institute R.L.POLK MARKETING SYSTEMS (2008) clamied in its research, the number of automobiles is expected to rise sharply by 20% between 2008 and 2015, to reach a total of 1. 12 billion. At the same time, the increasing number of automobiles also causes worsening traffic conditions and an increase in traffic accidents. In addition, the automotive emissions will be on the rise, resulting in a worsening air conditions and increase the health risks.
The traffic jams are one of the most serious traffic problems humans are facing. Every year, traffic congestion wastes human considerable money and time. Study shows that" in 2007, congestion caused urban Americans to travel 4. 2 billion hours more and to purchase an extra 2. 8 billion gallons of fuel for a congestion cost of $87. 2 billion - an increase of more than 50% over the previous decade". (Schrank & Lomax, 2009) Traffic congestion does not only cause a huge loss in the United States, but virtually all cities in different countries face the loss to different degree. In China, Beijing faces a 40 million yuan loss every day and Guangzhou people cost 11. 7 billion yuan and 1500 million hours annually due to traffic jams. (Daily Economic, 2005) In Toronto, traffic congestion costs $3. 3 billion annually. (BBC, 2009) The exhibit 1 shows the congestion growth trend from 1982 and 2007. The traffic congestion had become increasingly serious between 1982 and 2007, while the number of automobiles is increasing sharply. The increasing number of automobiles will worsen the traffic conditions and cause a more congested transportation. As a result, the economic loss and the wasted time caused by traffic congestion will be expanded.
Exhibit 1 Congestion Growth Trend (Shark and Lomax, 2009)
Another increasingly serious problem are traffic accidents. "Worldwide, an estimated 1. 2 million people are killed in road crashes each year and as many as 50 million are injured. Projections indicate that these figures will increase by about 65% over the next 20 years unless there is new commitment to prevention". (WHO, 2004) The traffic accidents tend to be more frequent with the increase of automobiles.
In addition to the traffic problems, the increasing automobiles also worsen the f energy crisis and problems of environmental degradation. In the "2007 World Energy Outlook" by the International Energy Agency (IEA), experts forecasted that the consumption of energy will increase sharply in next twenty years and humans may face the threat of an oil crisis, in which the consumption of gasoline plays an important role. In addition to putting a pressure on this energy crisis, the increase of automobiles also aggravates the environmental degradation; automotive emissions can cause a series of air problems, such as photochemical smog, an expanded ozone hole and global warming.
The IEA (2007) indicates that world's primary needs for energy will grow by 55% between 2005 and 2030. Currently, fossil fuels, renewable energies, are the main energy for humans. While the demand for energy for energy is increasing sharply, the current energy reserves are reduced in a quickening rate. As a result, the exploitation of fossil fuels cannot keep pace with the rising consumption, causing a much higher price. With time, fossil fuels will be worn out and the energy shortage is unavoidable if there is no prevention. A main consumption of fossil fuel is the gasoline, which is mostly used for automobile. While the number of automobiles is increasing, the consumption of gasoline tends to rise, which can step up the energy shortage.
In addition to speed up the energy shortage, the increasing number of automobiles also aggravates the exhaust of emissions. As indicated by the IEA (2007), the emissions will jump by 55% between 2005 and 2030. The increase of emissions tends to aggravate the current atmosphere conditions immensely, because a considerable amount of carbon dioxide and various waste gases are exhausted with emissions, which are the major cause of global warming and air pollution. As Gu points out in his article, the automotive pollution occupies 60% to 70% of the air pollution. (2001)The increase of automobiles tends to aggravate the air pollution due to the increasing exhaust.
More health risks and diseases will occur as a result of worsening air pollution. As Klepal concludes from 27 studies which focus on the connection between automotive emissions and health, "pollution from automobile tailpipes increases the risk of asthma, lung cancer, leukemia and other ailments". (2004)What is more serious is that the air pollution can also cause a widespread outbreak of diseases and abnormal mass mortality. For instance, the "Photochemical Smog Event" in Los Angel in 1940s caused more than 400 deaths and 75% of the citizens had eye syndrome. The considerable amount of automotive emission was one of the main culprits. In 1952, London smog episode caused more than 4000 abnormal deaths and much higher incident of pneumonia, lung cancer and other respiratory diseases. While the automotive emissions raise, the air pollution bounds to be aggravated, as a result, the health risks will increase.
While the increasing automobiles cause increasing problems, the development of public transportation become extremely necessary. Public transportation may be the best choice to reduce the negative effects of increasing automobiles from different aspects. More developed public transportation system will attract people to choose a public bus or another public vehicle other than driving by themselves. As a result, the number of automobiles on the road will be decreased to some extent. The traffic jams will be relieved to some extent. Of cause, the traffic accidents will be reduced. Studies show that public vehicles have a relative lower accident probability than private ones, because most public transportation drivers are experienced and trained. In addition, fewer automobiles will also result in fewer automotive emissions, which can relieve the destruction of environment. Both from economic and environmental aspects, the development of public transit is in need.
The main benefit of public transit is to reduce the vehicle miles traveled (VMT), which can help to reduce the number of vehicles on road, thus the automotive emissions will be reduced and the traffic congestion will be relieved. As a result, the air pollution caused by automotive emissions will be relieved and the economic loss due to traffic congestion or accidents will be avoided. Study shows that public transit reduces VMT in U.S by approximate 102. 2 billion annually. 3. 4 percent of U.S. annual VMT. (Bailey, Mokhtarian& Little, 2008) To develop public transit is also a method to attract people to use public vehicles instead of private ones, thereby reduce the usage of private vehicles. If the public transportation network is accessible from all directions, more people will prefer to choose public vehicles.
People have reasons to believe that the development of public transit can restrain the increase of automobiles or relieve the problems caused by the increasing number of automobiles. Firstly, public vehicles have higher passenger capacity than private ones. It means that public vehicles are more efficient than private ones, because public vehicles such as bus or train can contain much more passengers and require less space than private vehicles. Figure 1 shows the road space required by different kinds of vehicles. Public vehicles require much less space than private cars, so the development of public transportation can help to solve or relieve traffic congestion and parking congestion. Secondly, public vehicles are of higher safety than private ones. The drivers of public vehicles are trained and experienced and they should pass a series before going to their post. In addition, public vehicles always have their own route and special channels. As a result, public vehicles are always excluded from the traffic jams or traffic accidents. Therefore, to develop public transit will help to reduce the accident incident. Thirdly, the development of public transit will reduce the exhaust of automotive emissions by reducing the VMT and the lower emission ratio of public vehicles. As figure 2 shows, the bus has the lowest emission ration for per passenger among all the vehicles listed, and the more passengers in the bus, the lower emission ration will be. As Bailey, Mokhtarian and Little demonstrate in their study, public transit help to reduce greenhouse gas by 37 million metric tons. (2008) More developed public transit will reduce much emissions and facilitate to solve the environmental problems caused by air pollution. Fourthly, public transit also helps to relieve the energy shortage, especially gasoline shortage. "The total energy saved, less the energy used by public transportation and adding fuel savings from reduced congestion, is equivalent to 4. 2 billion gallons of gasoline". (Bailey, Mokhtarian & Little, 2008) While the energy shortage is on the rise, the development of public will contribute to relieve the emergent crisis to some extent. In conclusion, the development of public transit will restrain the rapid increase of automobiles and facilitate to solve or relieve the problems resulted by the excessive increase of automobiles
Figure 2, Road Space By Mode (Banister and Button, 1993)
Figure 2, Lifecycle GHG Emissions, Grams CO2e (Chester and Horvath 2008)
Developed public transit can solve or relieve traffic, environment and energy problems due to the considerable amount of automobiles. Additionally, the public transit also can support more convenience and have more economic benefits than private vehicles for passengers. Most people prefer to choose automobiles rather than public vehicles because they think it saves time and it is more convenient. Actually, public vehicles tend to save more money and time. While most drivers in cities worry the traffic congestion, the passengers who choose public bus or subway are excluded from it, because public vehicles always have their own specific channels. While most drivers complain about the scarce parking space, passengers in public vehicles are not bothered by it. From economic aspects, people who choose public transit no longer need to consider the increasing gasoline price and auto insurance and they no longer need to complain the gasoline wasted in frequent congestion; what they need to do is just paying a little money and enjoy their journey. To choose public transit can help to solve a large amount of problems which bore people who always drive automobiles.
While the number of automobiles is increasing rapidly, the traffic problems, energy shortage, environmental problems and health risks are on the rise. After give full consideration to those problems caused by the too much automobiles, to develop a more perfect public transit is in need. More developed transit will contribute to reduce the VMT, as a result, the environmental, traffic and energy problems will be solved or relieved to some extent. Considered from both solving problems due to massive number of automobiles and private convenience, to develop public transit is necessary.
Reference
1. World Health Organization (WHO), 2004 "Word Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention: Summary"
2. Shanghua, Gu (2001) Car Exhaust Pollution. Economic Management, 1, 40-41
3. International Energy Agency (IEA), 2007 World Energy Outlook, 2007
4. Jad Mouawad April 20, 2008 "The Big Thirst" The New York Times, from http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/20/weekinreview/20mouawad.html?pagewanted=1
5. Dan Klepal, "Auto Pollution Increase Health Risks", July, 29, 2004
6. Todd Litman, February, 23, 2010, Evaluating Public Transit Benefits and Costs, Victoria Transport Policy Institute
7. Linda Bailey, Patricia L. Mokhtarian, Ph.D., Andrew Little, February, 2008 "The Broader Connection between Public Transportation, Energy Conservation and Greenhouse Gas Reduction"
8. CBC News, November 10, 2009 "Traffic jams cost Toronto $3.3B per year: OECD" http://www.cbc.ca/canada/toronto/story/2009/11/10/oecd-traffic.html
9. World Health Organization (WHO), 2004 "Word Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention: Summary"
10. David Schrank & Tim Lomax July, 2009 "2009 Urban Mobility Report" Texas
