Part-time jobs is a very interesting thing, when the word come out at the very first time this word must create by a lazy people, because part and time, that means there should have a job you sued to do all day long or more but this kind of job you just need spend fewer hours on it than you get the money and you can go home or hung out with your friends. What is part-time job? Part-time job is a form of employment that just works fewer hours per week than a full-time job. That's seemingly very easy and decent. For a student, I think that is a good to take relax and get some free money to buy what they want to buy.
Part-time jobs I think is create for students. At present, our students are extraordinary at their academic works, they don't have enough time to approach the society that's mean they will lost many important things, they just can stay in the little tiny space with mountain of homework and endless of books, how can they the outside world, how they can now how beautiful the outside world really are. Part-time jobs it's a chance for students, it can let they know the real world is more splendid than the inside world, they can learn lot of things they which they never thought in their books. It also can teach students that not the teacher is the only way to learn knowledge.
Nowadays, college students take part-time job become a very popular and fervent question, more and more student prefer to do some part-time jobs after classes, it becomes a popular activity among them and a lot of college students usually choose their part-time jobs according to their various interests.
Some people thinks that students should not take part-time jobs, because they are just students, they must focus on their academic study and their future are not hurry to find a job to earn little money. From part-time job is very useful for college students. Therefore I sustain the viewpoint that college students should take part-time job.
Some people believe part-time job can let student divert attention from academic studies and lost the intuition of the real goal. "What if at the beginning of the 21st century many colleges and universities were not focused primarily on undergraduate learning, but instead had become distracted by other institutional functions and goals?"(Arum, Richard. And Josipa, Roksa. "Academically Adrift" New York Times 17 Jan. 2011, natl. ed.: Jacques Steinberg.) According Richard, he thinks take part -time jobs can take students focusing attention and let our students distracted by other institutional functions and goals. I disagree with that, I think part-time jobs can't let students claim attention, because part-time job is a kind of social experience, it teach our students the truth of our life and life's meaning, let them know why they need study hard at college and the time is very valuable in such of shout life, they can learn how to manage their time between two things or more. Take part-time jobs is very useful for college students. The school work maybe can give them institutional functions but it can't give students authentic life goals, students has dream, but the most dreams are not reality, they can't find the real life goals in books or the professor's word, they need find the life target in the real life not college life, the best way to hunting the life goals is to find a part-time jobs, it can help students set up their goals it also can let them learn something.
"It is worth noting that in measuring broad analytic and problem-solving skills, the exam does not assess how much students concentrating in particular majors - physics or psychology, for example - have learned in their respective fields of study." (Josipa, Roksa. "Academically Adrift") I agree with that, students can't study enough things in college, there always has some redundant exam and measuring broad analytic and problem-solving skills, I think that is useless, there has too many subject I think is useless, like higher-mathematics, is too difficult for us, and it's unnecessary, when you march to the society how many time can we use it, only when you're a scientist or someone who study mathematics.
The exam is a way to test ourselves how much we understand at class and how many time we study at home, but nowadays exam become a tool to measure students value, some school to differentiation students from them exam results, that is too bad. The students value are not just incarnate in school, it can embody in their character and inside quality. At school some subject is too hard to understand, if they just read books they maybe can get good points at exam, but at the real life they could find it total different in books write or professor said. If they get a part-time jobs which has some contact with what they learned at school, it will solve those problems, they can use their knowledge in some simple works, that can help them to digestion what they learned at class and books, also students can learn some extra skill which they can't study at classroom, such as communicate with strange, collaborate with other employees and the most important thing is they can learn team-works, it can influence their whole life.
"Full?time students engaged in part?time studies have been a subject of increasing academic attention." (Richardson, Mark., Carl Evans, Gbolahan Gbadamosi. "Funding full-time study through part-time work." Business School, University of Worcester, P#3) I agree with that, college students take part-time jobs can improve their academic works and help them to get a good job in the future. The part-time jobs are not just simple jobs that help them earn some extra money, it also can give them full time study, and they can get more form the part-time jobs. They can learn a lot from the part-time jobs, like work experience, how to work better, and let them know how to earn money, the money meaning, and they can understand how hard their parents to earn money try them best to let their child have a better life, students will show them respect to every hard working people no matter which jobs those people choired. Some students always mock at some lower jobs people; if the take part-time jobs this society problems will disappear, not exist anymore. They can learn something is true about life, not just what book and teacher told, that was the part-time jobs want tell college students.
Part-time jobs can burning us a good future, that is a good reason that support me to believe college students take a part-time jobs is good to themselves. "In fact, many job recruiters are looking for applicants who possess people skills that can best be obtained off-campus, the best way to develop that kind of maturity and skill is by getting a part-time job and doing some volunteer work."(Modest Suggestions on Landing Dream Job" China Daily 04 Mar. 2004, natl. ed.) That is a very good idea. When themes to landing a job with a multinational company, most graduates are keen to present polished curriculum vitae that highlights academic achievement and involvement in extra-curricular informal down at the student union. Yet to many Human Resources managers and recruitment specialists these credentials mean little when compared to the countless other applicants toting the same experience. That most students are unprepared for the real world because they spend so much time studying, maybe keep away from books it's a better choice. This is a new word, more and more company recruit new staff from high education background and high academic achievement turning on work experience, especially the part-time jobs for our college students. If you going to employ and your academic achievement and education background is in a same height with your competitor, but you have a lethal weapon-the part-time job experience. Because of that edge tool, company will put you at the top on their list. Sooner you will get your dream jobs near future you will have your dream life, you can have this kind of life just because you're faster than others-you have a part-time jobs! That's true, the best way to learn something is in the off-campus, and keep away from book I think is not a good idea, we still need book to teach us the foundation question than we can use the foundation question in our real life.
"As we all know, the costs of attending college are high. In addition to tuition and room and board, there are extra fees, expensive textbooks, and living expenses. Many students head off to college knowing that, in addition to their academic work - and possibly their sports or other activities - they will need to have a job."(Should My Students Get A Job At School?" College Parents at American. www.collegeparents.org.) That is a good reason why college students should have a part-time job. Study at college will spent a lot of money, everything is costs high, they need to take a part-time job to earn some money to lighten their pressures and also they can use the money to join some social activity and sport so they don't need to ask money from their parents that lighten their parents pressure. And they can try to learn how to manage their own money, prepare for the future, when that day coming they will not feel hurry-scurry, they can calm to face those kind of problems, be their own manager.
"A part-time job not only adds another plus to one's resume, it also gives students a head start into the working world."(Somoski, Nick. "Should students work part-time during the school years.") I agree with that parlance. Part-time job can give students too much pressure, and let students feel hard after they star into the working word, it attack students confidence. That not true. Our students are growing at a big green house, almost everything that has someone help them, even when they grow up, that not meaning they are truly grew up, there heart is still young. They need experience and toughening, part-time jobs is the best way to do that, they don't need spend too much time on it, and also they can do lot of practice for they get into the working world. Most of the part-time jobs are briefness that can help them build confidence. I think part-time jobs are the best way to training students will.
"Working a part-time job early in life will also help students discover their areas of strength as well as areas of weakness." (Somoski, Nick. "Should students work part-time during the school years.") Working part time during the school year may be beneficial to some students, but disadvantageous to others. It all depends on the situation of the student. For those students with a lot of free time and not a lot of extracurricular activities, a part-time job is indeed valuable on multiple fronts. On the other hand, for a student already juggling multiple after school activities, a part-time job may cause more harm than good, but we still can use part-time job to limited them, give them a small job, let them has some work to do, I believe it can make them from bad boy become good.
"While I'm not completely convinced that a job does teach children the value of a dollar, I can safely say that it does teach children responsibility." "Money is needed now more than ever." (Should college students work part time jobs?) Money is a big question, if student get a part-time job they can have then own money they don't need to ask their parents for money, they can have their own money to do want they want to do, to buy something they want to buy, it can training them become independent . But there have a problem, they are just kids, they are not old enough to judge what is really good and bad, it can be easy to lose their way. From me, I think money is not the main point of students to get a job, the most important thing is they learn the responsibility, teenagers with a job will learn to better communicate with people and will learn how to better balance their priorities at a younger age. Responsibility will play its role when kids are earning money, yet also have homework waiting to be completed at home. For the most part, kids will take a step into the real world, something that will better prepare them for the future.
"I would much rather her focus on her studies. A part-time job would get in the way of that, taking away her time that could be better spent preparing for her future." These words from a parents who really care about his child. I can understand his mood, he wants his child to be better, to have a good future, I think every parent want that. many parents think part-time jobs is not a good idea to let their children to learn more, they thinks that just waste their time, students duty is to study, learn more and prepare to the future, they need spend more and more time on the books and study not on the jobs. But I think if they want their child to be better, they need let them go, to find a part-time job, that can training them to be better, let them have more confidence to face every difficult. If just let them stay at home or school to do the unmerous homework and reading the incessant books is not good from them, it might be able to make them become a pedant, part-time job can totally change it.
Overall, part-time jobs is a very complex question, whether the college students should participate in part-time jobs during college life is becoming a hot issue now, everyone has his own answer in this question, just the people who take part-time jobs know it's helpful or not, good or bad. From me, I still believe part-time job is really good to our students. It can make us from childish become ripe, from bashful become decent. We can learn lot of thongs from part-time job, like manage our money, balance time between two or more things. If we have nothing to do after school life take a part-time job can resolve it. Some people think that college students take part-time job is not a good idea but they will change their mind, someday will truly find that part-time job is good to their students and child. Anyhow, I think part-time job is good for students, it change our whole life.
Work cited
Arum, R., Josipa, R. "Academically Adrift" 17 Jan. 2011, natl. ed.: Jacques Steinberg.
Johns, Kate. "Why It is Important for College Students to Have a Job While in
College." <http://wenku.baidu.com/view/0d44455e312b3169a451
a491.html> 07 Jan. 2011. 19 Oct. 2011. pg. 3
"Modest Suggestions on Landing Dream Job" China Daily 04 Mar. 2004, natl. ed.
Richardson, Mark., Carl Evans, and Gbolahan Gbadamosi. "Funding full-time study
through part-time work." Business School, University of Worcester, WR2, 6AJ
UK, Journal of education and work, Vol.22, No. 4 September 2009: 319-34.
Smith&Taylor, 1999; Curtis&Shani, 2002: 171
Somoski, Nick. "Should students work part-time during the school years." <http://www.helium.com> 05 Feb. 2010. 19 Oct. 2011.
Tilly, Chris. Half a Job: bad and good part-time jobs in a changing labor market.
United States: Temple University, 1996. Print.
"Somoski, N. "Should students work part-time during the school years."
Should My Students Get A Job At School? College Parents at American. www.collegeparents.org.
