On May 31, 2009, the American doctor, Georg Tiller, was gunned down in Wichita Kansas. Dr. Tiller is a controversial person because he provides public abortion, especially partial birth abortion to women. His clinic was often surrounded by large-scale protest organized by Anti-abortion organizations. It was supposed that his death was relevant to the dispute of abortion. As a matter of fact, the dispute of abortion has never stopped in American history. People who hold liberalism views approve the rational of abortion. While the social conservative believe that abortion is equal to murder.
In the colonial period of Northern America, abortion before quickening is allowed according to the common law of British and America. In that time, abortion was only a moral and not a legal problem. Until the early 19th century, no state established definite law for prohibiting abortion (Balter). However, in 1894, 20 states define abortion before quickening as a minor crime, while abortion after quickening is regarded as second degree murder. Only abortion which is operated to save the life of woman is allowed (Fox News par.1). In 1910, every state except Kansas rules that abortion is illegal, the right of abortion is controlled by doctors even if the abortion is allowed in particular circumstance (George). People who oppose abortion hold a conservative view. They also believe that the limited medical condition of abortion endanger women's health.
The situation changed in the 1950s. With the development of women's liberation movement, people concentrated their attention on the body autonomy of women. Feminists advocate to abolishing the law for prohibiting abortion, they consider that if a woman can't control her body, she will not get the same social statue of men's. With the spread of the idea that women's rights should be equal to men's rights, common people begin to switch their view of abortion, and the behavior of abortion was accepted by the society gradually.
In 1969, a woman called Roe launched a lawsuit against the criminal justice of Dallas, Henry Wade. Roe claimed that she suffered from pregnancy caused by rape and she needed to abort, however, the law of Texas prohibited abortion except the one which can save the lives of women. What's worse is, she didn't have enough money to go to the state where abortion is legal and then get legal abortion. In view of the situation, she had to continue the unexpected pregnancy. Roe believed that a woman has the right to decide when and how to terminate the pregnancy no matter why the woman chooses to abort. The law of Texas disobeyed the federal constitution because it deprived her option. The defendant claimed that the action that deprives the fetus's life without legal procedure was prohibited by the 14th amendment. This case was appealed to the supreme court of United State. In 1973, the court judged that the law for prohibiting abortion of Texas restricted women's option and it infringed on the right of the individual to be free which was protected by the 14th amendment. Because of Roe's appeal, The American government enacted a proposed law called Roe v. Wade in 1973. The law indicated that federal court empowered women the right of abortion (Wikipedia, Roe v. Wade). The Roe v. Wade case is a landmark which protects women's right of abortion. It causes strong disagreement in the society. Since then, the fight for legalizing abortion was becoming increasingly strong.
Even though the appeal of legalizing abortion is accepted by society, the pro-life people who oppose abortion insist on their views. The main idea they hold is that abortion is equal to murder and they believe life begins at conception and fetus is a person in nature. No civilized society gives women the right to take other's life, and thus, the behavior of abortion is equal to killing an innocent person. Furthermore, the medical technology of abortion is not skilled enough to ensure the women's lives. An unsafe abortion can bring about gynecological inflammation, and sometimes it even causes death (Lowen).
It is a truth that fetus is alive. When the egg and sperm join together and creates a fertilized egg, the origin of a new human life begins. And the fertilized egg possesses all DNA essential to contribute the embryo growing into an independent human being. However, it is not a support that fetus is a person in nature, it is a potential person. Since the mother must convey the fetus nutrition and oxygen to help it grow, the fetus cannot live independent of the mother (Elroy). What's more is, the unborn fetus has no ability to perform the social obligation, thus it has no right to enjoy the right. The famous American moral philosopher and metaphysician, Judith Jarvis Thomson, who is an abortion supporter, has an argument about the relationship between the fetus and mother. He declares that the fetus is dependent on the woman for life-sustaining aid, but fetus has no right to get the aid, if the cost of this aid is too high and women can't bear it, they can choose to terminate this aid. If a fetus is a threat to cause harm and death to the woman who is carrying it, the woman can choose abortion as self-defense (Timothy). His argument denies to treating fetus as an independent person. Now that fetus cannot be regarded as a person in nature, abortion is not a behavior of murdering.
According to research, the reasons for abortion are complex, such as the unexpected pregnancy, pregnancy caused by rape, diseases of the fetus and mother (Lawrencen). Table 1 shows the main reasons for abortion, and we can see that most of the reasons are reasonable. Table 1 ( Lawrencen 112)
If a woman gets an unexpected pregnancy, but she has no adequate economic resources to raise up a baby, she will choose to terminate a pregnancy rather than give birth to the baby. If a woman suffers from rape and gets pregnancy, she will not give birth to the unexpected baby. If the fetus is diagnosed as fetal anomaly or the mother has some terrible diseases that will pass to the fetus, the woman will choose to abort to avoid the birth of the unfortunate baby. Just images what will happen if abortion is illegal. All the fetuses are forced to be born. The unexpected baby will be abandoned, and the unfortunate baby must suffer from the pain of diseases. These children's right of enjoying the life has already been deprived when they were forced to be born.
In spite of the fetus' right, we should take women's right into account. Anyone should have the right to control his body, and women are no exception. Forbidding abortion deprives women's autonomous right. As the feminist sense has been around, more and more professional women appear, they focus on their career. If abortion is illegal, it not only makes their lives inconvenient, but also compels them to give up the right of controlling their own bodies. Especially, for some single women and divorced women who get pregnancy, forbidding abortion puts severe pressure on them. Since society does not manage men's bodies in such a manner, forbidding abortion is a discriminate against female. Making abortion legal will give women the real right to control their bodies, and women can get the equal status with man finally.
To sum up the argument above, there is no reason to forbid abortion based on the fetus' right and woman's right. The other view pro-life people hold is that abortion will endanger women's lives, the study had shown that abortion can cause complication and sometimes it even lead to death to women. However, the safety factor of abortion has improved under the modern medical conditions, and protecting women's health cannot be the reason of forbidding abortion.
According to the data of the World Health Organization, about 42 million cases of abortion occur every year, among which 20 million abortion are carried out without adept skill. What's worse is, about 68,000 women die because of unsafe abortion every year, and two million to seven million women suffer from the long-term harm of unsafe abortion. (Wikipedia, par) It is no doubt that unsafe abortion contributes to a large degree in the death of women. As is shown by statistics, nearly 97 percent of unsafe abortions appear in developing countries (David). The table below indicates that the incidence of unsafe abortion in developing countries is higher than the one in developed countries in 2000. Because of the controversy of abortion, there is no general law for abortion in the world, and different countries have different laws for abortion. A study claims that 78% of countries which are located in more developed regions have laws allowing abortion, while only 19% of countries which are located in less developed regions have laws allowing abortion (Marcel). All of the data above suggests that unsafe abortion occur more frequently in developing and less developed regions where abortion is illegal or restrictive, and the legal abortion is difficult to access. Why does this phenomenon exist? Let's take a look at the example of Nigeria first.
Nigeria is one of the developing countries which have restrictive laws for abortion, the government formulates that a women can get legal abortion only if the abortion can save her life. Thus, many women who want to terminate pregnancy turn to clandestine, unsafe abortions for help. The Federal Ministry of Health and other sources claim that "unsafe abortion accounts for 20-40% of maternal mortality in Nigeria" (Friday 194). The official data suggests that incidence of maternal mortality rose in the 1990s, and it maintained an increasing trend (Friday). The same situation occurs in Latin American countries where abortion is legally restrictive.
Restrictive laws cannot reduce the abortion rate, and it drives the abortion unsafe. A study shows that about forty percent women live in the regions where abortion is illegal or difficult to access to abortion clinics (Antonio). Their lives are endangered by the restrictive law. I believe that when abortion is legal and performed safely, not only women's health is guaranteed, but also their right to control their bodies is finally respected.
However, the damage of abortion cannot be refuted even if it can be made safely and legally. There are two main methods of abortion. One of the methods is the surgical method, and the other method is medical abortion. Both methods can leave complications to women, such as excessive bleeding, pelvic infection, uterine perforation and cervical tears (Corbett). Sometimes incomplete abortion even drives the women to abort successively which makes the women sterility after abortion. These short-time diseases may be curable, but the long-term effects of abortion are even more serious. It has been proved that abortion increases the risk of getting breast cancer. The terminal of pregnancy generally makes a big loss of the level of estrogen in the body of women. This drop causes the cells in the breast tissue growing rapidly and superabundant of the cells are the incentive of breast cancer. The United State National Cancer Institute claims that a woman has a 50% probability of getting breast cancer at the age of 45 if she had abortion when she was young (Sarah). The other long-term effect is sexual dysfunction. A recent study indicates that 24% of American women show that they suffer from sexual dysfunction and they believe it is caused by the past abortion (Coleman 3). In spite of the physical illness, abortion also leads to mental problems to women. One study of women who have abortion shows that 42% of them feel major depressed, 39% of them get anxiety disorder, and 27% of them have suicidal trend because of the stress caused by post abortion (Coleman). SUD stands for the substance used to measure disorder, the other study shows that it appears more generally in women who had an abortion (Natalie). The damages of abortion on women are really appalling. To protect themselves, women should avoid the abortion.
Abortion is a disputable issue which not only be related to women's right and women's health, it but also can be associated with social issue sometimes, for example, there exists a phenomenon called sex-selective abortion in China. Women will decide to abort because of strong son preference. A study shows that about over 100 million 'missing' females appeared in the world, of which 40 million appeared due to sex-selective abortion in China, sex-selection abortion is the incentive of severe imbalance in the sex ratio (Jin-Bao Nie). It is no doubt that it is a sexual discrimination against female and this action is immoral. This kind of abortion should be avoided to maintain normal order in society.
It is no wonder that abortion has bad effects on women's bodies, and it even does great harm to social stability. However, making abortion illegal is not the solution. To the contrary, making abortion illegal flies in the face of women's right to control their bodies, and it drives the abortion into unsafe situation which endangers women's health. According to the survey, over three million unintended pregnancies occur every year. Making access of birth control easier will avoid hundreds of thousands of abortion. However, millions of Americans don't get access to the methods of birth control or do not know how to use them (Five ways). To avoid abortion, women should learn how to protect themselves, using condoms or taking other scientific contraception measures when they have sex with the partners. The government should propagandize birth control to unmarried women and provide free service of birth control to married women. The clinic Planned parenthood which processes safe medical abortion service to women also provides free birth control to their patients after abortion. At the same time, the clinic tries its best to advertise the method to prevent abortion.
Making abortion legal, more safe abortion will be provided to women, women's right to control their bodies is respected and women's health is safeguarded. Making birth control easier to access to, and more abortion is prevented. Georg Tiller will not be the only person who dies from the dispute of abortion. The way of legalizing abortion is hard but worthy.
Word cited
Bernabe-Ortiz, Antonio et.al "Induced abortion: prevalence, incidence and risk factors among women in a Latin American country" Canadian Medical Association Journal, 2/3/2009, Vol. 180 Issue 3, p298-304
Coleman, PK, VM Rue, and M Spence. "Intrapersonal processes and post-abortion relationship challenges: a review and consolidation of relevant literature." Mental Health Nov. 2007
Corbett MR, and Turner KL. "Essential elements of postabortion care: origins, evolution and future directions." Family Planning Perspectives Sep. 2003
Cole, George; Frankowski, Stanislaw. "Abortion and protection of the human fetus : legal problems in a cross-cultural perspective." 1987, 334 pages
Elory. "Why abortion is moral." http://www.elroy.net/ehr/abortionanswers.html
"Fast Facts: History of U.S. Abortion Laws" Fox News.com January 21, 2003. http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,881,00.htm
"Five Ways to Prevent Abortion" Planned parenthood , 01.02. 04 http://www.plannedparenthoodnj.org/library/topic/planned_parenthood/five_ways_pr event_abortion
Finer, Lawrencen B et.al. "Reasons U.S. Women Have Abortions: Quantitative and Qualitative Perspectives." Sep. 2005 Vol. 37 Issue 3, p110-118
Grimes David A et, al. "Unsafe abortion: the preventable pandemic". Lancet, 11/25/2006, Vol. 368 Issue 9550, p1908-1919
Hall, Timothy. "Abortion, the right to life, and dependence. " Social Theory & Practice, Jul2005, Vol. 31 Issue 3, p405-429
Jin-Bao Nie, "Limits of state intervention in sexs-selective abortion: the case of China." Culture, Health & Sexuality, Feb2010, Vol. 12 Issue 2, p205-219
Linda Lowen "10 Arguments For Abortion and 10 Arguments Against Abortion" About.com Guide. http://womensissues.about.com/od/reproductiverights/a/Abortion Argumen.htm
Lawrence Balter. "Parenthood in America: an encyclopedia, volume 1." December 1, 2000, 475pages
Mota, Natalie P et, al. "Associations Between Abortion, Mental Disorders, and Suicidal Behaviour in a Nationally Representative Sample" Canadian Journal of Psychiatry, Apr2010, Vol. 55 Issue 4, p239-247
Okonofua, Friday E et.al. "Perceptions of Policymakers in Nigeria Toward Unsafe Abortion and Maternal Mortality." International Perspectives on Sexual & Reproductive Health, Dec2009, Vol. 35 Issue 4, p194-202
Sarah Barnes RN. "The long term effects of abortion on women." The Gospel.org February 10, 2009. http://the-gospel.org/stdy_fmly/abortion_effects.php
Vekemans, Marcel. "Making induced abortion safe and legal, worldwide". European Journal of Contraception & Reproductive Health Care, Jun2009, Vol. 14 Issue 3, p165-168
Wikipedia. "unsafe abortion" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unsafe_abortion
Wikipedia. "Roe v. Wade" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roe_v._Wade
