Nowadays, there is a common phenomenon; more and more students in China want to go abroad to study, and many parents also hope their children will study abroad in order to have a brighter future. This has raised questions as to whether going abroad to study is a good way for children, even for their future beneficial path for students. Some people point out that students can acquire more advanced knowledge different from China and independence facing difficulties skills while they studying abroad than from staying in China. Others think studying abroad will make people be lost, international students will feel lonely and helpless in a new environment. Lots of evidence proves that studying abroad is not a good way an advantageous option for students, because for the each individual, international students will facing face huge pressures about their studies and finances. The other reasons include: is some students spend money too recklessly, a comparison between the students, teenagers' self-control has not yet fully mature, they very easy to receive the extraneous factor the influence it is very easy to be influenced by extraneous factors, and they had have bad living habits. In addition, the language
barrier is the biggest problem most significant problem for international students.
In China, the number of international students studying abroad increased substantially from 1996-2006 (Figure 1). This figure shows that with the
(Figure1: http://www.pinyin.info.com)
growth of China's economy, per capita the improvement of living standard,
people more are increasingly choosing to study abroad. The square represents the Chinese mainland;, it can obviously shows that the number
of international students have has significant growth. From 1996-2006,
China has had 15 million people studying abroad;, these people distributed in to 103 different countries and regions, international students studying professional covered nearly and studied science, engineering, agriculture, forestry, medical, the humanities, and the management of all subjects. According to statistics, since from 1996 by the end of 2006, various the number of Chinese study abroad personnel totaled at almost total 60. 1 million people. Why did going abroad to study become a controversial issue? The main reason about people choosing toe going abroad to study is the college students' employment difficulties. In China, university graduates quantity surge, but jobs quantity and university graduates quantity there exists much difference, it means many graduates couldn't find a job. In addition, the social and family on the students expect too much;, they requires the students in mastery of professional knowledge while develop their social skills, to improve their own competitiveness (Lili, Fan). So many students have to choose to study abroad so that they can acquire knowledge from different angles and have a more comprehensive understanding of the world. Other aspect, some western countries have relaxed their policy on studying abroad, such as no deposits limit, and no language tests restrictions, leading to an increase in students studying in China.
There are some strong disadvantages to studying abroad. First of all, for the individual, the international student will face huge pressures about study and finances. About pressures, students will be confronted with so many psychological problems, such as study stress, loneliness, anxiety neurosis and sleeplessness. An international student who had been in Canada for three years told journalist, that after three years, a lot of students studying together with him gave up halfway studies, because they are difficult to adapt to the environment of studying abroad. Further more, heavy academic pressure caused heavy psychological burden and there was no way to comfort it ( Ruochen). Many trivial life issues can also cause mental pressure. Washing the clothes, cooking, looking for housing, or paying bills can be a big challenge for an international student. These things are personal and take a lot of time in one's daily life to solve. For the international student, these things will make them feel helpless and lonely, as well as culture shock. For parents, they main fears for their children abroad are fears that they cannot get used to the life there and that there will be no one to look after them ( Yi Songguo). Meanwhile, the high tuition fees are a big problem for some ordinary families, people spend a lot of money on high tuition fees, but they will not necessarily obtain equivalence returns. If the parents spend a lot of money on their children to study abroad, but their children do not know to study hard and just enjoyed the life in other countries, it means the parents not only cannot see their children academic success, but also waste a great deal of money. According to a survey, there are 46% of international students don't actually study hard, or not pay more attention to academic( www.tieba.baidu.com).
Opponents point out that international students can eventually to adapt and solve these problem after enough time, but in fact, this might be wrong. Whether those problem mentioned can be solved depends on student's personal qualities.
Secondly, some students spend too recklessly. A comparison between students, teenagers self-control has not yet fully mature, they very easy to receive the extraneous factor the influence and had bad living habits. Some students' homes have economic basis, their life in foreign countries is superior in their home countries; they can spend more money without worrying about it. In China, international students tend to be rich, many rich families send their children studying abroad is to learn, but these children are willing to go abroad just because enjoy foreign lifestyle and out of their parents' bundle. Even students have bad grades originally, after their go abroad, they do not study, even spent a lot of energy pursuit vogue and famous brand. ( "Life daily"). For some students, the motivation is still just to have fun, to "see the world," or to flee the strictures of home and the paper chase, if only for a semester. But for a substantial number, the new focus is to add some international spice to the resume in a competitive and global job environment ( La Franchi). Other students too young to have correct outlook on life and values, their psychological state of mind is half childish and half mature, can't clearly distinguish things stand or fall, these students may have been badly influenced to try taking drugs or gambling. There are many people who think students can learn advanced knowledge and experience from study abroad, but they didn't consider the unfavorable problems some student might face like the ones mentioned above.
Thirdly, the language barrier is the significant problem for international student. One student studying in American, said," I have a classmate, he is no way to study in the United States, because he couldn't understand the professor's lecture. Every day he just hide in the dormitory and play games, within a year, he is forced to return to his country."(Yong, Yan). Thus, skillfully master a language ability is very important things, this also is international students need first to resolve problems. In a perfect stranger and full of temptation environment, study and life completely to depend on student themselves, this is a challenge for many students. Language is the test whether student can successfully complete their studies, because only smoothly through language courses, overcame the language in the exchanges of obstacles, students can perfect their academic, and more easily with local students contacts.
Fortunately, there are some possible solutions that exist. Firstly, there are solutions for relieving stress. According to Ronghua, for short-term relief method, students can relax themselves anytime, close eyes, take a deep breath and imagine themselves in a good state, for example, standing on the beach to see sunset or crook fishing. Moreover, students can go to a deserted place, heartily shouting to free their heart of depression. Or when encountering difficulties, think about if necessary for this matter frustrated, they can choose to calmly face it or ignore it. If things are really important, then face it bravely. For long-term treatment the method of pressure, on the one hand, all things all think positively, if all things you think to harm, your body will be issued some warning messages to make your muscle stifness and try to think good, can help you to relax yourself. One the other hand, formulate good time management and planning, can avoid things accumulation and was unable to complete, meanwhile cause stress (Ronghua).
The second solution is to advice international students how to control and protect themselves better. According to Yuloo.com, one is students must obey local state laws, in school, students must abide by the rules and regulations of the school. If there is a danger, students should call the police or the school as soon as possible. Others is students do not enter the casinos and some pornographic sites, because these sites will easily cause insecurity factor. In addition, don't show off, try to keep a low profile style, this can make students far from the thief and gunmen (http://www.yuloo.com). People also should measure student's personal qualities if this student have good plasticity and ability to work under great pressure.
The third solution is to improve language ability. According to baidu.com, one possible solution to improve English is to make friends who speak English naturally American. This serves two purpose; It reduces loneliness while improves language ability. In order to improve listening skill students can listen to the radio in the free time, or watch movies with subtitles, listen to music with lyrics. Other point that improve speaking. Whether in class or after class, be bold make friends and exchange languages, don't be afraid of making mistakes, if confuse some words or phrase, do your best to remember them. These methods can effectively to improve students language ability(www.baidu.com).
In conclusion, The disadvantages of going abroad to study are great than the advantage. A large number powerful reasons and evidence can support that studying abroad is not a good choice. Underage child will be facing a great challenge in the other country, and without their parents protection and correct guidance, children will wander away from the family and the feelings will be alienated. Teenagers self-control has not yet fully mature, they very easy to receive the extraneous factor the influence and had bad living habits . The language barrier is also a big problem. Beside, going abroad to study doesn't mean students will get high paying jobs and they will have a bright future.
Work Cited
Lili, Fan. College Students' Employment Difficulties. Beijing: People's Daily, 2008. Print.
Ronghua, Rao. "International Students How to Reduce Pressure Overseas." Industry and Commerce Times 15. Aug. 2007, Print.
Ruochen, Jia. "Studying Abroad Phenomenon Investigation." Jingjiu Evening paper. 20 Aug 2008: 83-100. Print.
Songguo, Yi. "Why Do College and Middle School Students Want to Go Abroad?." <http://ehis.ebscohost.com>. 2001. Web. 1 Dec 2010.
"Students Spend Money Like Water." Life Daily 14 May 2009: 37-49. Print.
La Franchi, Howard. "Why more students are studying abroad." <http://ehis.ebscohost.com> 19 Aug. 2003: 3. Master FILE Premier. EBSCO. Web. 2 Dec. 2010.
Yong, Yan. "The Advantages and Disadvantages of Living Abroad." <http://train.icxo.com> Sep.9.2009. Web. 17 Nov 2010.
"Students How to Far From Danger."<http://www.yuloo.com> 23. May.2008. Web. 17 Nov 2010.
"Improve Language Ability"<www.baidu.com> Dec.23.2006. Web.17. Nov. 2010.
