Gun control (WP#5)
In 2007, nearly 70% of all murders nationwide were committed with a firearm (Crimes committed with firearms, 2011). The debate over gun control was not a major issue at any level before the late 1960's. A series of incidents, starting with the assassination of President Kennedy and an increase in urban crimes, resulted in distress over regarding guns in the United States. The spotlight has moved from political assassination to organized crime with an obvious split between the ones who consider that gun control saves lives and ones who do not. Some people believe gun control is an effective policy and is regarded to have extensive consequences, which could save lives. The objections may pertain to the role of ownership of guns and the responsibility gun use. While there is intense discussion about the question, whether gun control saves life or not, there is not significant disagreement over the statistics by large. Among the statistics, in 1994, guns were involved in approximately 39 thousand killings and in 1995, a gun was used as the weapon involved in seven out of ten killings in America (Ludwig, 2003). Furthermore, more American adolescents between the ages of 15 to 19 died due to shooting injuries compared to all other the causes combined. Moreover, guns are implicated in 65% of suicides of people below the age of 25. According to Ludwig's book about gun control, gun control laws are doing everything they can to protect the citizens of the United States. However, gun control has been disregarded by criminals and rebels alike. Figure 1 shows the average of gunshot in all state in United State:
Figur 1: The map above charts firearm deaths for the 50 states plus the District of Columbia. Note that these figures include accidental shootings and suicides (Florida, 2011). The government of United States government wants to look at reasons of people who not support to gun control and people who support for gun control to figure out the solution for it. So the question is, why do we have to make more gun control and stop people to have guns?
People who not support gun control say "guns do not kill people; people kill people" (Trapp, 2009). They also say the gun came from overseas instead it stolen from whom own. The people who support gun control say to people who not support, if the government allows most people to have a gun they will kill each other by just little problem. Also, if the government allows people to bring guns from overseas, the rate of killing will increase exponentially. Also, if guns spread, people will be afraid for themselves and they will not go anywhere, especially to the bank and to work, in other word, it become bad affective to the society (Trapp, 2009). According to Bradley (2000) says nearly a quarter of at the frontline against violent crime (ATF) gun trafficking investigations involved stolen firearms and were associated with over 11,000 trafficked firearms - including 10% percent of the investigations which involved guns stolen from residences. Which mean, if the United state government allow gun, the rate of gun stool from how won will increase as same as killing rate.
Also some people say sometimes the police cannot do anything when people get some the threat of attack, then people have to have a gun to protect themselves from attack, which will make the criminal stop attack, the question for this situation is Which is good, people and criminals have a gun or none of them? the answer is noun of them because if they both have guns, one of them will die or both, but if both do not have a gun then they will fight and only just get hurt instead of dying and the percentage of gun deaths killing will decrease (Trapp, 2009). Which is gun control is more likely to reduce killing rate.
In addition to the opposing statement, giving freedom does not actually mean to give the people rights to enjoy freedom, the luxury life, but it means they should have the right to defend themselves whenever and wherever necessary. The opponents also believe banning of guns would not be fair treatment with the citizens as this would restrict people to defend themselves in case of emergency. Banning guns would make the crime easier, not harder. The laws in the United States for the use of guns not only would disarm the criminal but would also help in decreasing the overall crime rate (Strahinich, 1992). The guns would not only save the individual from being murdered but the prospect or the perspective that the individuals owning guns would somehow make the criminals stay away from crimes as police could not able to reach everywhere at the exact time. It takes less than a second to murder anyone with a handgun (Holzel, 2011), unless he has his own gun for self-defense instead of calling the police for help at the most vital situation. According to Hemenway (2004), using a gun in self-defense is no more likely to reduce the chance of being injured during a crime than various other forms of protective action. In other word, people and criminal should not have guns.
Some people says prohibition is not the solution especially in USA Banning guns would not make them disappear or make them any less dangerous. Moreover, that is the right of citizens to own weapons to protect (Trapp, 2009). According to Hemenway (2004), using a gun in self-defense is no more likely to reduce the chance of being injured during a crime than various other forms of protective action. Furthermore, Garen, who is a professor of emergency medicine at the UC Davis School of Medicine. Also, a researcher about the nature and prevention of violence and on the development of effective violence prevention measures, states that "living in a home where there are guns increases the risk of homicide by 40% to 170% and the risk of suicide by 90% to 460%" (2008). This is to say people who have gun in their home, they have more than doable to get risk. Also, according to Douglas, who has Ph.D. and a member of the Violence Prevention Research Group, University of California-Los Angeles school of Public Health, Los Angeles, CA says a recent study on adult firearm storage practices in U.S. homes found that over 1. 69 million children and youth under age 18 are living in homes with loaded and unlocked firearms (2003). Moreover, the presence of unlocked guns in the home increases the risk not only of accidental gun injuries but of intentional shootings as well. One study found that more than 75% of the guns used in youth suicide attempts and unintentional injuries were stored in the residence of the victim, a relative, or a friend (Douglas, 2003). The great way to protect themselves is to trust the police and put safety system in house.
The question is should civilians be allowed to carry a gun? In 98 % of the cases of gun defenses, no shot has been for fired by the civilians. The robbers how are the professional users of guns, see the civilian with the gun, it would end up in murdering of the civilian. Using the gun in self defense would be more risky for the civilian (Little, 2005). A gun owner who wants to defense his self takes the law into his own hands. Harry says only the criminals and the police have the right to do so. Having people own gun would make them rely less on police and government for your safety. Also Harry says it should be more like depending on the authority instead of relying on his weapon (Harry, 2000). United State allows guns for the self-defense of its citizens, where as compared with the British law they strictly oppose the use of guns for the citizens, even after which British had not been able to decrease the armed crime rate (Kopel, 1992).
Both direct and indirect violence would be greatly reduced with gun control laws. Direct gun violence like that of using gun related to gangs and robberies would be lessened. In addition, indirect violence like accidental shootings that happened when children have access to guns in the home would also be greatly reduced as well (Arnold, 2011).
The argument is based on whether the guns should be prohibited for the people. In the opposing argument, prohibiting the guns for the use of people might increase the crime rate as criminals do have guns whether illegal or legal. The United States' government believes in giving its citizens the full liberty, right to protection and happiness. In order to protect the rights given to the citizens, indeed in order to survive, every individual has the right to protect himself, his family and his property by any means necessary (Leone, 2002). The United States allowed the full freedom to its citizens to have guns for their self-defense. In this situation the question a rises that will not use of guns legally become mayhem or would generate any confusion? Alternatively, would gun control create the situation better? People consider guns as the most harmful thing. Adding the supporting point, the use of guns should be prohibited because it truly depends on the person's tolerance level (Ludwig, 2007). Hundreds of children die because of considering guns as a toy kept in their homes as they are not aware of the aftereffects (Desuka, 2003). According from Desuka opinion is, in addition of guns in the country the more would be the fear of people getting seriously hurt, injured or maybe killed. If only criminals had guns, it would become easier to recognize the criminals which would help crime by deterrence (Desuka, 2003).
Gun is very dangerous "Guns cannot exist without death and injury. After all, the main reason that guns are made is to have a way of killing or injuring animals and people. Think of all the weapons produced for military purposes" (Newton, 1992). The point to have those firearms is to be able to kill or hurt people, which is more harmful violent. According to Newton, gun violent was related to gang violence and drug disputes, especially with teenage gang because they will use all what they have for drug like shooting by guns or knife (1992).
At present, firearms are being used to catch criminals. The individuals in these situations are prone to high risks so, they use guns to avoid social risks and threats. Although, firearms in wrong hands could turn any peaceful community into violent situation. Therefore, federal laws need to be implemented to check the use of guns. Threats from unemployed youth, drug addicts and mentally challenged individuals to our society are some of the common reason behind the need to procure and use guns.
A crime victim who has a gun may be in more danger than an unarmed person since the criminal may kill in perceived self-defense. In other word, the pest way to self-defense is without gun and support gun control to reduce the number of guns in United State, also to reduce crime and violence rate. The only function of a gun is to kill. The legal ownership of guns by law-abiding citizens. However, by some ways they will sale it to the criminals. Also, there is many people have emotionally unstable then they decide to suicide. Unfortunately, The easiest way to suicide is by gun. Figur2 shows statistics firearm, Nonfirearm, total homicide rate and households with guns between United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand
Nation
Firearm Homicide Rate
Nonfirearm Homicide Rate
Total Homicide Rate
Households with Guns (%)
United States
4. 0
2. 2
6. 1
41
Canada
0. 6
1. 2
1. 8
26
Australia
0. 4
1. 4
1. 8
16
New Zealand
0. 2
1. 5
1. 7
20
Figur2: Homicide data from CDC WISQARS (Note: U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics give slightly lower homicide rates); Fedorowycz (Homicide in Canada 2000); Mouzos (Homicide in Australia 1999- 2000); Injury Prevention Research Unit (New Zealand). Gun data from United Nations. (Hemenway, 2004)
As the figur2 show, the United State is the biggest rate in all things. Which is mean should all people in United State support to make new strongest rules for gun control.
In conclusion, until now there are some people disagree to spread guns between people because it would be increase the number of gangsters but some people agree to spread the gun between people to protect themselves from gangsters. Actually gun is useful way for kill from distance and when people have gun control laws, people will reduce the number of crime and they will have a peace society. Some people, however, think that guns protect them from death but sometimes they may use it in a wrong way and kill an innocent person. So we should have gun control laws to protect people from death and it is the responsibility of every citizen to determine himself or herself whether or not the procurement of arms is good for society at large.
Reference
Arnold, D. (2011). List of Pros on Gun Control. Retrieved from: http://www.ehow.com/list_6693334_list-pros-gun-control.html
Bradley, B. (2000). Department of the treasury bureau of alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms. Washington, D.C.
Crimes committed with firearms. (2011). Crimes committed with firearms. Retrieved from: http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/glance/tables/guncrimetab.cfm
Desuka, N. (2003). Why handguns must be outlawed. Current issues. Retrieved from: http://faculty.mdc.edu/dmcguirk/ENC2106/desuka.htm
Douglas. W. (2003). Homicide and suicide risks associated with firearms in the home: a national case-control study. America. College of emergency Physicians.
Florida, R. (2011). The geography of gun deaths. Retrieved from: http://www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2011/01/the-geography-of-gun-deaths/69354/#bio
Garen, W. (2008). Guns, fear, the constitution, and the public's health. Retrieved from: http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp0800859
Hemenway, D. (2004). Private guns, Public health. USA: The University of Michigan Press.
Holzel, T. (2011). The Pros & Cons of Carrying a Concealed Weapon. Retrieved from: http://www.velocitypress.com/threatened_citizen.shtml
Kopel, D, B. (1992). Gun control in great Britain. Saving lives or constricting liberty. The University of Illinois at Chicago.
Leone, B. (2002). Gun control. Sun Diego: Greenhaven press, Inc.
Little, C. (2005). The disarming president. American survival guide
Ludwig, J. (2003). Evaluating gun policy: Effects on crime and violence. Washington, DC, USA.
Newton, D, E. (1992). Gun control: An issue for the 90's. Hillside: Enslow publishers, Inc.
Strahinich, H. (1992). Think about guns in America. New York: Walker and company.
Trapp, R. (2009). The database book. New York: International debate education association. (p111)
