With science and technology developing faster and faster, more and more people are becoming involved in cosmetic surgery to make them more beautiful. It is common sense that a majority of people in South Korea do cosmetic surgery, celebrities and common people alike. Definitely, there are many advantages of having cosmetic surgery. It helps people improve their appearance and is a good way for them to meet the public standard of beauty. However, what on earth is the so-called public standard of social perfection? Do some universal standards exist in the world? Actually, there is no single definition of beauty in the world. There are acceptable reasons for having cosmetic surgery, but attaining a social standard of beauty is not one of them. People should pay more attention to their inner beauty and ideology, which cannot be reconstructed by cosmetic surgery.
Cosmetic surgery has had a long-time development in history. As Doona said, "Although the practice of cosmetic surgery initially was developed largely in response to the reconstructive needs of wounded male soldiers (Gilman, 1999; Haiken, 1997), it is now constructed primarily as a feminine pursuit (Davis, 1995; Davis, 2003; Dull & West, 1991; Morgan, 1991)." (Doona 134). Cosmetic surgery was meant for specific medical conditions historically. It seems that the purpose of cosmetic surgery has changed enormously recently. More and more people use it to improve their physical appearance, rather than to reconstruct damage done to their bodies. The following bar graph shows the increasing number of people who do cosmetic surgery from 2005 to 2010.
In general, there are four reasons for people to do cosmetic surgery. First, after some serious accidents, cosmetic surgery is a great way for the patients to reconstruct their appearances. Second, models and celebrities wish to improve their appearance to achieve the standard requirements of the occupation. Third, in order to make themselves look like their favourite stars, some crazy fans spend a lot of money doing cosmetic surgery, such as breast augmentation prosthesis, double-edged eyelids' surgery, and so on. Last but not least, a large number of people have cosmetic surgery to meet the social standards of beauty.
There are cases for which cosmetic surgery is good. It does help women improve their appearance, with which a large amount of women are not satisfied. As the following content said, "There is considerable evidence that middle-aged women, like younger women, experience high levels of body dissatisfaction (Tiggemann, 2004). Among this group, high levels of body dissatisfaction are associated with a number of adverse psychosocial consequences, including poor self-esteem (Webster & Tiggemann, 2003), depression (Simon et al., 2008), and disordered eating (Lewis & Cachelin, 2001)" (Julie 66). Besides, "While boys living in poverty often dream of becoming professional athletes, many girls in poor communities have the equally impossible dream of becoming a fashion model" (Alexander 377). By the way of doing cosmetic surgery, the poor women can gain more self-esteem and confidence, which is good to satisfy themselves. What is more, "Cosmetic surgery is frequently justi?ed as a quality of life investment: aging people who choose it often wish to feel happier by looking younger. People at times describe cosmetic surgery as an action that brings a new phase of life - one that brings a 'second youth'" (Taina 258).
However, cosmetic surgery brings more harm than good to people. Generally speaking, it causes both physical and mental health problems, and adds a large burden to a nation's economy.
To begin, it is dangerous for people to do cosmetic surgery, because of the mental and physical harm it inflicts on patients. It does damage to surrounding organs and tissues that is irreversible and unavoidable for all of the patients, regardless of how exquisite the technology is. What is worse is that deaths may occur as a result of cosmetic surgery. "In 7 years there were 31 deaths and 143 procedure-related complications and hospital transfers. Liposuction and liposuction with abdominoplasty or another cosmetic procedure resulted in 24 complications and 8 deaths" (Bene 285). These statistics are frightening, but individual accounts can be even more disturbing. In order to become more famous, Bei Wang, a Chinese star, recently had cosmetic surgery done, with some changes on her face, such as double-edged eyelids, an aquiline nose, and a pointed chin typical of western celebrities. She died just several hours after the surgery. She was so pretty that there was no need for her to do the plastic surgery, while Wang said that it was meaningful for her career and that she wanted to give her fans a perfect impression (ent.ifeng.com). Even if everything goes right, it takes a long time for patients to recover from the surgery. They need to do a lot of rehabilitation and bear great pain.
In addition, if some medical negligence takes place, the patients will bear the pressure themselves and the opinions of the whole society. They will experience a great feeling of depression and frustration. Society will treat them in a strange way. Some people will make fun of them, while others will exclude them from the majority. The popular star Michael Jackson is an example. He did a skin-bleaching cosmetic surgery when he was young. "The participants bleach their skin to remove facial blemishes, to make their faces "cool," as a result of peer influence, to lighten their complexion, to appear beautiful and to attract a partner, to follow a popular fad, and to have the visual stimulus of the bleached skin because it makes them feel good" (Christopher A.D. 153). During those years, the public could not accept his white and unnatural color of skin. Instead, they began to resent this "odd" person. Michael Jackson was very despondent with people's attitudes and showed symptoms of psychosis. As shown in the following, he is neither handsome nor brilliant after cosmetic surgery.
Last but not least, it is too expensive for common people to do cosmetic surgery, which will trigger an enormous risk for a whole country, even the whole world. It is widely known that cosmetic surgery is a kind of activity for wealthy people, in other words, people with low income are unable to bear a large number of surgical fees. However, in order to lead people to do cosmetic surgery, cosmetic institutions are forming in relationships with some other organizations, like banks and insurance companies. It is said that last year, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, announced that it would provide a loan for people who wished to do cosmetic surgery but lacked the finances to do so. At the same time, Pingan Insurance Company, a famous Chinese insurance company known for accident insurance, offered all kinds of professional accident insurances for possible injury inflicted by cosmetic surgery. Among those insurances, product liability insurance and beautician professional liability insurance are two typical supporters of cosmetic surgery. It is said that if, because of the poor quality of the product or the technical problems, some unforeseen events happen after the surgery, they will compensate 100,000 RMB at most (finane.ifeng.com). Therefore, the more money people spend, the more profit cosmetic institutions will get. However, if accidents occur, banks and insurance companies, which are the supporting foundations of a country's economy, will break down, creating an eventual catastrophic meltdown.
It is necessary to avoid these serious consequences caused by cosmetic surgery. At the same time, it is the government and common people's responsibility to take some measures. Among different kinds of measures, the followings are the representatives.
First, it is important and necessary to improve the qualification of people who want to set up a cosmetic surgery clinic. As we know, different kinds of clinics relating to cosmetic surgery exist in the world. In a way to avoid cases of medical negligence, the requirements should cover lots of facets, such as the educational background and work experience of a person, the equipment of an organization, and so on so forth. At the same time, it is important to add some restrictions to the patients as well. Moreover, it is a good way to increase the price of doing cosmetic surgery, which will cut down the number of patients. If the price is high enough, people will be less likely to do it.
Second, society should correct the aesthetic standard presented by the public. Nowadays, there comes a trend that popular stars have become a yardstick for common people to see whether they are beautiful. For instance, some websites of entertainment often put forward different kinds of ranking list, with a topic like, "The first ten belles in China". It seems that bigger eyes, a Roman nose, and an oval face are the most basic and acceptable features for the society. However, things are changing all the time. There is no need for the public to form a single standard of beauty. Popular stars are just the same as common people. It is foolish for people to do cosmetic surgery to make themselves look like big stars. The society should weaken this trend and advocate inner beauty instead. " The expression "no pain, no gain" has long been used in association with cosmetic surgery, but it has perhaps never been as appropriate as in today's China, where men and women are increasingly willing to undergo expensive and painful operations to change their appearances" ( Jonathan 958). Here, the "pain" should be the hard-working perseverance, not the bodily hurt from cosmetic surgery. People should understand that inner beauty is more important than physical appearance. Outer beauty cannot give people a better life, a noble spirit, or benign characteristics.
Third, it is critical to tell people the dangers that cosmetic surgery will bring. Society can spread dangerous information of cosmetic surgery through mass media. It can use videos, photos, as well as advertisements in the magazines, books, and on the Internet, including some real failing cases after cosmetic surgery to demonstrate that doing cosmetic surgery is really dangerous for people's life.
Last but not least, it is a good idea to collect people's attitudes towards cosmetic surgery by sending them a questionnaire. In the book Looking good: factors affecting the likelihood of having cosmetic surgery, "One hundred and sixty-eight women as well as one hundred and fifty-one men completed a questionnaire measuring how likely they were to consider common cosmetic procedures. The results showed that women were more likely than men to consider most cosmetic procedures" (Voracek 211). Knowing what people think, the steps society takes will be of more pertinence.
All in all, our appearances are something we are born with and are given by our parents. It is our responsibility to respect it and to not change it with unnecessary cosmetic surgery. It is better to care about our own personalities and characteristics rather than keep to the rules and fashions all the time. Instead of focusing on our physical appearances, we should better attach importance to the perfect personality, the creative idea, and the inner shine, which are the "core" of a person. We should keep in mind that fake beauty cannot replace real beauty forever. If we try our best to shape our personalities, we will definitely be successful in the future.
