Today, almost all the people have cell phones. Cell phone also becomes more and more multifunctional and has many types for people from every business. Cell phone has been invented for 40 years. In the 40 years, as people's concepts and living tempo changing, cell phone is becoming important for people's life. The basic function about cell phone is communicated with each other. Today, cell phone also can do many things such as play a game, check the E-mail and so on than before. It becomes a modern machine which can help people do many things. However, the problem about cell phone is the big issue makes people confused. Whether use cell phone is a question for people. On the one side, cell phone can help people contact with each other, we can also relax when we have the free time. On the other side, cell phone also influences the teenager when they study in the school. The radiation can have negative effects on people's health. Many people care about the benefits and the weaknesses about using cell phone. In my opinion, I think the health is very important for humans. If we don't have a healthy body, we can not do anything. Even though some people think we should use cell phone because of the convenience, the research in this paper shows that we should not use cell phone less.
Many people don't agree my view. They think people can use cell phone for many ways. Mathews (2006) explains, "Many parents feel that their children need to carry their phones with them for after school rides, allowing communication between their teen and themselves, and for simple safety reasons, as many high-school students are just receiving their drivers licenses and parents feel they are a safety precaution in case of an emergency". According to his article, he thinks parents wants their children have the cell phone. They can get the information from their children quickly and find their children when they have something trouble. For the children, they could have many different items when they go to high school or university. They can drive the car, play with their friends and so on. Their parents need a tool to know whether their children are safe and what are their children doing now.
As the human advance, the cell phone becomes multifunctional and useful for people in daily life. "Today's cell phones have cameras, games, Bluetooth and texting capabilities, they can hold favorite music, and can even play videos! They range in all sizes from super tiny ones that will fit in your ear, to small, medium, and large sizes" (Shawver, 2008). Look at this picture, these various functions can help people do what they want. People can check E-mail when they are outside. People can play video games when they feel bored in the free time. The cell phones have many strong functions like the computer recent year. Many new type cell phones with many functions can attract people to use it. It also can give people a happy feeling when we use it. Using cell phone is a good choice for people to improve their life quality. So, many people advice we need to use cell phone and we will have a happy life.
Although there are many studies tell us we will have a easy life when we use cell phone, there are some that suggest otherwise. From most of studies that it teenager always uses cellphone at the wrong time. It will make some trouble for them. Many of student's will use cellphones in the class. This is forbidden by the teacher. It is impossible to focus the class when using a cellphone. And if a cellphone rings in the class, it not only interrupts teacher's thinking, but also will disturb classmates who cannot focus on the class.
When people use cell phone, it always very harmful for people's body. According to Benivia (2011), "like televisions, alarm systems, computers, and all other electrical devices, cell phones (also called mobile phones) are radio devices that use Radiofrequency (RF) energy emit electromagnetic radiation. We can find cell phone can radiate people like many electric machine. Cell phones operate at low power (less than 1 watt) by transmitting and receiving electromagnetic radiation in the radiofrequency (RF) end of the spectrum. This picture, illustrates how RF energy causes harm to the human head. Radiation which is called "ionizing" can be absorbed by tissue and break molecules apart, such as gamma rays and x-rays, are known to cause cancer". We can see cell phone real can dangerous for human. Cell can radiate people and make people have more diseases. The biggest disease is cancer caused by cell phone. According to Joachim(2006), a doctor who works in institute of cancer epidemiology, "Cellular telephone use was not associated with increased risk for brain tumors (SIR = 0.97), acoustic neuromas (SIR = 0.73), salivary gland tumors (SIR = 0.77), eye tumors (SIR = 0.96), or leukemias (SIR = 1.00). Among long-term subscribers of 10 years or more, cellular telephone use was not associated with increased risk for brain tumors (SIR = 0.66, 95% CI = 0. 44 to 0.95), and there was no trend with time since first subscription." This research show how people get the cancer and brain tumor are very horrible for people. Cell phone's radiation can work through people's brain and negatively affect pacemakers, disrupt the blood/brain barrier, cause genetic damage to the blood cells. If we use cell phone for a long time, we will probably can have the brain tumor and it can not be cured recently. If people want to have a healthy life, we should avoid using cell phone more.
Cell phone not only radiate our brain, but also radiate damage the DNA in sperm. Cell phone storage in front pockets has been linked to poor fertility and an increased chance of miscarriage and childhood cancer. According to the Ashok(2008), who works in Cleveland Clinic Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute, "Samples in the experimental group were exposed to radiofrequency electromagnetic waves (RF-EMW) emitted from a cell phone in talk mode for one hour. The control samples were kept under identical conditions but without RF-EMW exposure." They recently did a research about undertook a pilot study to test our hypothesis in a controlled, in vitro setting. In this study, they find semen samples from 23 healthy donors and nine patients presenting to the infertility clinic were divided into a control group (unexposed) and exposed group. From this research we can clearly see that if we use cell phone, we will affect our next generation. It is very unworthy. We should care about the development of human beings. So we should not use cell phone more and care about our children.
People's safety is also concerned by the government. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) (2009) claimed "Research shows that driving while using a cell phone can pose a serious cognitive distraction and degrade driver performance." The data are not effect to quantify crashes caused by cell phone use specifically, but NHTSA estimates that driver distraction from all sources contributes to 25 percent of all police-reported traffic crashes... From NHTSA available research, we can find that whether it is a hands-free or hand-held cell phone, the cognitive distraction is significant enough to degrade a driver's performance. This can cause a driver to miss key visual and audio cues needed to avoid a crash. This is a big problem for people who can drive. But why people cause crash when they drive. There is a tendency to think that multi-tasking while driving is the cause of driver inattention or distraction. Leon (2000) tells the reason. "This belief leads to demands for new laws that restrict or ban the use of in-car communication devices such as phones and computers. But the correct argument is that multi-tasking can lead to driver distraction when drivers haven't properly trained themselves to use the new car gadgets. This is true for older devices like phones." So it's true that multi-tasking becomes the occasion for drivers to make more mistakes, when they fail to drive themselves properly. When we use cell phone, we may be distract and we wll lose our attention for driving. That is very dangerous when we drive. We should care about the basic things which cause crash such as cell phone. When we driving, we should not use cell phone and take a phone call. There is a report said in September 2010. "5474 people were killed in 4898 crashes caused by distraction in 2009, compared with 5838 killed in 5307 crashes in 2008. However, since the total number of traffic crashes declined in the U.S. last year, distracted driving was a factor in 16 percent of crashes and fatalities in both 2008 and 2009. The number of people that were hurt in accidents was directly related to distractions, and it declined 4 percent, or 448,000, accounting for 20 percent of overall injuries in highway accidents. In 2009, the number of deaths caused by distracted driving increased 22 percent, compared with 2005, although the total number of fatalities declined by 22 percent during the same time. In 2005, only 10 percent of crashes were caused by distraction" This report shows us how many people died because using cell phone when they drive. We should focus on our body safety. So we should forbide the cell phone more.
Today, people not only care about only human beings, but also care about the environment. Because people care about the environment, we must stop using cell phone because of cell phone's batteries. Lithium-ion batteries, used in most cell phones, can explode from exposure to high heat, or from overcharging a faulty counterfeit battery. These explosions have caused injuries and started fires. For our environment, we should not use Lithium-ion batteries. So we should prohibit using cell phone. Ben (2004) said, Bad batteries have made 2004 a year of living dangerously with cell phones. Watchdog groups devoted to the safety of consumer products say they've fielded dozens of reports this year of cell phone meltdowns that have resulted in injury and property damage. Defective or counterfeit batteries have caused nearly all of the reported incidents, while others were caused by dropped phones, according to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. We should protect our environment and our daily life.
There are lots of crimes all over the world every day. Cell phone also can make the crime right now. People can use cell phone to disturb the police's signal and make the police can't catch the suspect. Walking the streets of New York City in 1949, E.B. White observed that a person could find the "gift of privacy" amid the crowds. The Massimo Calabresi (2012) reported, "FBI violated the Fourth Amendment's guarantee against unreasonable search and seizure when it used global-positioning-system signals to track a suspected drug dealer for four weeks without a valid warrant, even though the cops monitored only where the suspect went on public streets." This report tells us the weakness of cell phones. If the criminal always use cell phone to disturb the police's judgement, how can police catch the criminal. So we should restrict using cell phone and have a harmonious society.
In conclusion, I think people should not use cell phone. The opponents who think we should use cell phone made some interesting claims about why using cell phone is better than not use. They said the cell can help us communicate with each other and we can have fun when we use it. However, the research in my paper suggests that we should not use cell phone is actually better. These main points support my view: first, it hurts our health because of the radiation. Second, using cell phone is very dangerous when we are driving. Third, using cell phone have problem for environment. Fourth, it can help commit a crime. We know we didn't have cell phone in the ancient life, but we also can have a happy life. So I suggest people don't use cell phone and have a healthy life.
Conference
Mathews M (2006) "Cell Phones in Schools: Do They Affect the Grades?"
Shawver K (2008) "Our Cell Phones, Can We Live Without Them?"
Benivia L (2011) "Cell Phones, Cancers and Brain Tumors. Do cell phones cause Cancer? What is the REAL story?"
Joachim S (2006) "Celluar Telephone Use and Cancer Risk: Update of a Nationwide Danish Chhort"
Ashok A (2008) "Cell Phone Radiation Degrades Semen Quality," www.clevelandclinic.org
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) (2009)"NHTSA Policy and FAQs on Cellular Phone Use While Driving," www.nhtsa.dot.gov
Leon J (2000) "Distracted Driving"
Ben C (2004) "Cell Phones: Too Hot to Handle?," news.cnet.com
Massimo Calabresi (2012) "privacy in public"
