Video Games "WP#5"
Can you imagine being nine years old playing video games with only one eye? My brother can. My younger brother lost his sight in one eye because he was playing video games all the time facing the TV. After I took my brother to the doctor, he said my brother cannot see from his left eye because my brother was not feeling about his sight is going and he use to play with one eye, also, the doctor said the TV can be a big factor. Most young people these days like to play video games, especially action and violent games. Shin states that "there have been studies that have found video game violence to have little negative effects on their players, there are also many studies that have found a positive correlation between negative behavior" (Shin, 2003). Researchers argue about the negative and positive effects of video games on players. This paper comes with a conclusion as to whether or not games are beneficial for children or whether they are completely bad for them. Based on increased violent behavior, negative health effects, devolving anti-social behavior this paper will report that video games are bad for young people.
Sources think video games can cause young players to be violent. Stafford, a researcher at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia, conducted a study with 600 young video-game players. As a result, he found that many games are training our kids to "celebrate violence" (2007, p. 14). Stafford's study shows how some young players love violent video games and cannot feel happy unless they kill more than 1000 players in the game in one night. When people play these games constantly, say opponents of video games, they can become desensitized to violence or even copy the events that were played out in the video games. Stafford's research says that "There was even a controversy recently over the online game, Super Columbine Massacre RPG, which allows players to act out the tragic events that took place at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado" (2007, p. 14). Figure 1 replays how the two males to the school with their guns and shows how close their age are to other young players who play video games. Included in Jefferson county suspicious incident report that:
The friendship grew, with Harris discussing his love for video games like Doom, (which are also played with adult friends,) guns, and his feelings of ostracization at school. At times he detailed creating a diversion before a big attack, and spoke of how when the day came, he was going to make sure he got the chance to shoot certain other students at his school. Assuming that the teen was merely blowing off steam, are chalked Harris's ranting up to adolescent feelings of peer pressure and a vivid imagination, a coping mechanism for his feelings of being outside the rest of his peers. Despite the violence he spoke of, are found Harris to be articulate, intelligent, and entertaining. He credited Harris's interest in guns to video games such as Doom, and felt that Harris was just seeking attention with his vitriol. (Stafford, n.y.)
Therefore, these types of video games can encourage young people to act in this manner and can push those on the verge carrying out this type of violence over the edge. The two males who engineered their hometown's infamy were shooters. They are perhaps two of the most talked about teenagers in recent history, their names and faces stamped in the annals of American crime (Stafford, 2007, p. 14). There have been reports of criminals copying crimes that they watch in the controversial games. The two males feel as if they can act in any way that they choose and that they will never have to answer for the decisions that they have made, which is quite untrue. This can create a serious problem in society, and perhaps if these realist games should exist, then they should have realistic consequences for actions one takes while playing the game. According to those against games, video game players do not actually see the realistic consequences of their actions in these games and can potentially begin to think these actions are acceptable in real life.
Figure 1: columbine shooting August 20, 1999. This visual shows
1, This is Dylan Klebold, he was 17 years old carrying the gun inside the school.
2, That gun is a DC9M Semi-Automatic Pistol.
3, This is Eric Harris, he was 18 years old carrying the shotgun with Dylan.
4, That gun is a Springfield shotgun.
5, they were at Columbine High School's Library. (Stafford, n.y.) In addition, some critics believe that video games can be bad for a player's health. Hunsinger is a frequent contributor to Buzzle.com, as online news and information site. He has written on topics such as gardening, health issues and computers. In Hunsinger's essay, he cites Hermosillo, president of the Mexican society of cardiology, who shared the fact that "up to forty percent of children who constantly play video games will develop high blood pressure" (2007, p. 14). He argued that video games can be very bad for children and have harmful effects on their health, which can also lead to "cardiovascular disease, the primary cause of death in Mexico" (2007, p. 12). This is because players get so wrapped up in the game that they forget their surroundings. They then start to become tense and their body reacts to these emotions, causing increased heart rate, blood pressure and respirations (2007 p. 12). Hunsinger says that high blood pressure can cause game players to act violently.
Furthermore, other critics believe video gaming causes obesity and sedentary behavior. Hunsinger cited a study in Beijing that linked young overweight students to watching too much TV and playing video games (Hunsinger, 2007, p. 14). According to Hunsinger, "up to 40 percent of children between 5 and 8 years of age are considered to be clinically obese" (2007, p. 14). Obesity is a health condition in which a person gains too much body fat. Bar-Or is a director of children's nutrition at Chedoke-Mc Master Hospitals in Hamilton, believes that people who get fatter feel more sedentary and do not want to do exercise (Bar-Or, 1993, p. 15). For example, when a person begins to become overweight, he does not have the energy to exercise. This in turn causes the person to gain more weight, and this routine turns into a vicious cycle. When children become overweight and tired then all they want to do is play video games, but because they are tired, it will prove to be difficult for them to take part in physical activity. Due to all these factors, it will be extremely hard for the child to break this habit and lifestyle without the encouragement and support of friends and family. Video games can also make people inactive and sick. According to Bar-Or, "Obesity among children has increased quite dramatically in the last 20 years" (Bar-Or, 1993, p. 15). He also believes an inactive child is likely to be an obese adult (1993, p. 15). Gentile, is a directs the Media Research Lab in the psychology department at Iowa State University, where he conducts research on the media's effect on children and adults, states that "Dozens of psychological studies indicate that playing violent games increases aggressive thoughts, feelings and behaviors" (Dana, 2009).
In contrast, some sources believe that video games can be helpful. They believe if games are created and utilized in a certain manner, then they can be very beneficial for everyone who participates in them. According to Streisand, a senior writer at U.S. News and World Report, "video game playing can help heal sick and traumatized patients. Health professionals are prescribing video games to manage pain, chronic diseases, and even post-traumatic stress disorder" (Streisand, 2006, p. 25). Streisand believes that video games can treat or heal a player's health (Streisand, 2006, p. 25). Although, some medical professionals would state that video games do not actually promote healing of the injury or sickness but rather take the patients mind off of the pain or illness during the healing process. It would prove difficult for any scientific study to prove that playing games could actually lead to a person's healing, but it is not to say that games do not make the healing process more pleasurable. According to O'Hanlon, a freelance writer based in New York, she is the editor and publisher of ACM Queue, "Guitar Hero helps improve hand-eye coordination and balance it is not easy to stay on that pad" (O'Hanlon, 2007, p. 21). O'Hanlon stated that this game helps the players use the controller in their hands without looking at it. Also, video games can be a factor to improve the player's skills faster (2007, p. 21). However, researchers show that video games can be beneficial but there are aspects of video games that can affect players adversely. When people spend more time playing video games, they have increase danger of performing poorly in school, becoming overweight or obese, and developing specific negative physical health outcomes. For these reasons, every hour that a child spends on video games is not spent doing homework, reading, or creating in other activities that might have more educational benefit, which prove that video games cannot be helpful all the time (Gentile, 2009). Figure 2, shows the big numbers of people between 2006 to 2011 who buy video games, Anderson states that people are getting crazy about video games and more than 67 percent are violet games.
Figure 2: Video gaming to be twice as big as music by 2011. This is the numbers for total U.S. video game sales in 2002-2006.(Anderson, 2007)
Moreover, sources believe that video games have positive effects on players. According to O'Hanlon, "video games such as Dance Dance Revolution not only provide healthy aerobic activity for kids, they also boost brain power" (O'Hanlon, 2007, p. 17). Schools use the dance game for classes at the gym to make the students more interested to go to class and do more physical activity. O'Hanlon said that there are advantages from video games, such as "increased blood flow" and more exercise. He said video games help the player lose weight (2007, p. 18). These games should not be a complete substitute for physical activity but does allow the gamer to remain active when he/she plays games. Of course, there are those who play video games daily, and for those people the physically demanding games are a great asset if that is the only physical activity they are getting. Even though, there are games can help the player there are the unskillful games. For example, the violent children who look for playing violent actions games with a group of friends might yield at each other or start fight. People have the power in their body but they do not know where they discharge it. Also, young players can get hurt or hurt other things form trying to do hard activities on video games like the Wii.
Likewise, some sources suggest that video games benefit the classroom. According to Visscher, the managing editor of Ode, an independent monthly magazine about people and ideas that are changing the world, "Videos games teach creative problem solving and other worthwhile skills by forcing students to formulate, test, and revise hypotheses" (2007, p. 31). Visscher thinks that video games help the students to create, solve, make and fix an idea. An example of this type of game is 'Sudoku'. These games can help increase problem solving and logic skills. These games require a person to understand a concept and to create a solution for a problem and allow them to reason. These more advanced methods of learning can be quite beneficial to the classroom and the students learning experience. The use of video screens can affect the brain functions, as well as be harmful to the eyes. Teachers and professors alike should always encourage the use of chalkboards and blackboards in the classrooms. Moreover, Visscher thinks video games can make some students more focused on their coursework, because it requires focus to play these games and does not allow the person to be distracted so easily. Visscher stated "video games teach players new skills that cannot be experienced" (2007, p. 31). For example, there is a game that can help children between the ages of nine and eleven improve their spelling, grammar and vocabulary level four literacy levels (Visscher, 2007, p. 32). Other games that simulate driving or flying are helpful as well, due to the fact that kids can gain useful experience in operating this equipment through the video game without being on the roadways or in the skies. This allows them to become familiar with all the responsibility of operating these things, so that when they do become drivers and flyers that are more responsible. Accordingly, some evidence suggests that video games increase violent behavior and make people gain bad activities. Also, some video games have the bad effect on people's health which can have the negative effect on people's brain and gain weight. There are other sources stated that children growth to be anti- social people who want and love video games only. Not all the video games are the same but it is depend on the Structure some games require a player to wrap up in the game and do not communicate with other people. This causes them to have underdeveloped social skills and makes it difficult for them to make friends and function in society as adults. Although many of the newer games do allow a multiplayer option when playing, this allows for children to socialize during their game play. This option is a great addition to games however this should not be a substitute for other activities for children that allows them to socialize with others and encourages team building skills. Children should also have a healthy balance of clubs, sports and other activities along with their game time.
In brief, there is no question that video games influence people's lives in both positive and negative ways. The way people use video games determines the effects on that people, as well as how they balance the time using video games. Moreover, video games can adversely affect children's health. However, video games can also have a bad influence on people, say those who are against video games and believe the effects could be negative. There are some aspects of video games that can affect players such as amount, content, structure, mechanics and context. Together, these aspects can explain different research results. Overall, video games can be good and bad for people depending on how they use them. Therefore, people should be very careful, and they should use their time wisely because video games can be bad for one's health. For someone to determine whether games are 100% negative for people to take part in is impossible, but it all reflects back to how the person utilizes the game and how they manage their time. If a person can have a balanced lifestyle, then they can lead a health life.
