Medical Marijuana
Introduction:
The medical sciences have a wide range of drugs to work with. A drug is a substance that may be used for the treatment, mitigation, diagnosis, prevention and cure of any condition of ailment. Thus any substance used for the above said purposes falls in the category of drugs. Drugs also have a method of classification system based on the origin and any drug may fall in one of these categories, at times even two categories. Natural, semisynthetic or processed and synthetic are the originating point of drugs. Other classification systems include the therapeutic category wise distribution of drugs. Today we will discuss about the presence of a naturally originating drug Marijuana, review and justify its use and check for the clinical relief that is provided to the users.
Medical Marijuana is a naturally occurring drug obtained from the leaves of cannabis sativa, a plant that abundantly grows in the tropical climate. Cannabis is majorly cultivated in tropical countries, and since it lead to be addictive, the governments' of the specific countries generally issue license to the legal cultivators, although illegal cultivation is also predominant. The active constituent of the plant is in its leaves and when the leaves of the plant, usually dried in shade, are consumed in variety of ways. Cannabis has a hallucinating effect that is usually rapidly acting and a single dose lasts for at least two to three hours.
This graph shows how people using marijuana as a treatment more than any drugs or pain relievers
Medically cannabis comes into use for a wide variety of purposes. Surprisingly it has made its way on the medical prescription after being continuously abused ever since the establishment of the earliest of the civilizations (since BC 2,737). Marijuana has been used as an agent for achieving euphoria since ancient times; it was described in a Chinese medical compendium traditionally considered to date from 2737 B.C. Its use spread from China to India and then to N Africa and reached Europe at least as early as A.D. 500 (narconon.org). Generally drugs are first prescribed and are only then known for the abusive potential. The prescription many contain certain parts of the herb or at times may even contain the synthetic form of the active constituents such as the Tetrahydrocannabinol. Other synthetic forms are also available in certain countries such as Marinol and Cesamet. Marinol is a pharmaceutical prescription pill that contains the active ingredient delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is the active chemical in cannabis and is one of the oldest hallucinogenic drugs known " According to wise4living.com. Cesamet is a synthetic cannabinoid for oral administration. The existence of a hallucinating drug in the prescription is enough evidence to prove its potential of having curing ability or at least relieving a symptom.
Controversy:
The potential of cannabis and its active constituents 'cannabinoids' have the ability to cause hallucinations and possess habituation potential, and thus the controversy. Thus there are many governments that have completely banned this drug in either form synthetic or semisynthetic. The federal government of the United States (US) permits the use of only the synthetic form, legally. As described above there are many disorders that can be cured by the use of cannabis (Abrams, 1998).
Administration of cannabis and medical marijuana:
The active constituents of cannabis is destroyed to significant amounts in the stomach acid and thus for efficient use it has to be delivered either evaporation through the lung or smoking of dried buds. There are also literature support of ingesting extracts and used them from capsules but it is presently under investigation. For the medical use marijuana is available in the US as Marinol and Cesamet (Kouri, 2000)
Therapeutic areas of medical Marijuana:
There are many therapeutic areas where cannabis is documented to be effective. The area are not special, rather these changes occurs during the abuse too, this mean marijuana could help people when they use them as a medicine in exceptional cases. Like the urge for food, pronounced feeling of nausea and vomiting. Thus due to these pronounced effects marijuana or its synthetic counterpart is effectively used in the treatment of AIDS to enhance hunger, treatment of poisoning to promote vomiting. (Prentiss, 2004). The fact cannot be denied that the above conditions can be elevated by the use of other allopathic drugs, which means people can use another kind of drugs that what they called allopathic "refers to the practice of conventional medicine that uses pharmacologically active agents" and at times even natural remedies, but the potency of marijuana and the rapidity of action make it a versatile drug. Second advantage of marijuana is the versatility, the same drug causes lessening of eye pressure; change in dose causes vomiting effect and yet another dose causes elevated hunger. Once administered in prescribed dose the vomiting effect is pronounced within 2-3 minutes, the elevation in hunger is observed within 3-4 minutes and glaucoma pressure is reduced in merely 1-2 minutes. The rapidness is the most desirable, and there is no other competent allopathic drug or any other drug for that instance, that can replace marijuana in terms of rapidness, potency and versatility. (Zuckerman, 1989)
Benefits of medical Marijuana:
There are huge volumes of evidence that can justify the use of medical cannabis. The establishment of the evidence is necessary at this point. A review in the year 2002 presented marijuana for the treatment of nausea, vomiting, premenstrual syndrome, unintended weight loss, sleeplessness, and absence of hunger (Grotenhermen, 2002). The literature also supports, with evidence, the treatment of excruciating conditions, especially strong situation cases, movement illnesses, asthma and glaucoma. Literature supports results that specify and prove that cannabis-based medicines possibly to be valid to use in treatment of bowel disease, migraines, fibromyalgia, and other conditions that involve inflammation (Russo, 2004). Medical cannabis is prooved to be beneficial and it has also been investigated to lower the symptoms of sclerosis (Zajicek, 2003) and backbone injuries (Maurer). The usefull property of cannabis and its extract has been exploited here as an antispasmodic are used to treat symptoms such as pain, muscle-relaxant and appetite stimulating property. The other conditions that are useful when marijuana is beneficial are the treatment of alcohol abuse, arthritis, asthma, cancer of the rectum, Human Immunodeficiency Virus -related mental problems like depression, the patients suffering from dystonia, excited mental conditions like epilepsy and sleep apnea. Beneficial in alimentary tract problems and other problems associated with the digestive tract, liver disorders like hepatitis C, blood problems like leukemia, sickle-cell disease, and tumor conditions of the skin, conditions prevalent in geriatric patients like Parkinson's disease.
Safety of medical marijuana:
The safety of medical marijuana is still doubtful due to presence of compiled literature and evidence. The reason of this is the prevalence of its habituation side effects. For the purpose of lethal dose and clinical long-term safety there needs to be a detailed clinical trial. This type of study involves the administration of medical marijuana in high doses and up to a long period of time. Since marijuana is banned in almost many countries the detailed study is not possible and thus exact lethal dose is not yet determined. Meanwhile the patients receiving this drug are not affected in any form. There exists no record that claims permanent damage to any organ or death of the patient who is on prescribed dose and prescribed duration of medical marijuana. "Marijuana has been used as a medicinal herb for thousands of years, going back to ancient civilizations in Egypt, India and Africa. In all that time, up to and including the present day, there has never been a report of a fatality directly due to the consumption of marijuana.
In contrast, over 1,000 people die annually in the US from an overdose of our most common non-prescription drug, aspirin (Bill Zimmerman, Ph D). Thus from this data it can be inferred that medical marijuana if taken in the correct, limited and medical dose proves beneficial and harmless for human consumption.
This graph shows the marijuana not danger as others drugs even alcohol more danger than the marijuana
Better safety:
Although medical marijuana has been in the US since 1997, there has been no fatality reported. The literature and evidential proof is obtainable from USFDA website wherein the department claims no deaths between the periods 1997 to 2006, but this claim stands good only in the event of single marijuana administration. During the same time, however, the department also warns the contaminant administration of medical marijuana with other drugs and has reported over 250 deaths due to drug reactions affecting the body adversely and causing death of the patient.
Critics point of view:
One of the earliest and most prevalent criticism is that marijuana has been associated with is the method of administration. It has to be taken by pulmonary route and due to absence of the most modern vaporizers it had to be smoked. Thus a defined quantity that had to be administered was packed in a suitable covering like the cigarette or pipe and the patient then smoked it in the conventional manner. The criticism that it faced was the accumulation of tar in the lungs and increased level of carbon-mono-oxide in the blood, same as those of conventional tobacco smoking. But the scenario today has been changed and the above smoking method has been replaced by vaporizers. The use of vaporizer is evident to be beneficial in terms of health and even psychological. The vaporizer uses the same principle of smoking with the only difference that it is in presence of a solvent such as water and is comparable to the process of steaming of rice or vegetables. In addition the smoking cinders used to reach very high temperature and cause unwanted chemical reactions and chemical transformations.
The second point of view of the critics is the high potential of abuse that has been ever associated with marijuana. It is again to be emphasized that this dose of marijuana is a temporary dose and not the one that has to be taken like the other drugs. Moreover this administration is always done under the supervision of a physician or a healthcare provider. The dose is handed over to the patient and it is ensured that the patient takes it himself/herself. A comprehensive testing performed by the Institute of Medicine, funded by the United States National Academy of Sciences, and in 1999 established the benefits of cannabis and the active constituents of cannabis to be very useful for the conditions of nausea, loss of appetite, painful conditions and mental disorders like anxiety. But the institute also conveyed the interruption in the use of marijuana in other conditions
Synthetic Cannabinoids:
The problem just described led to the development of synthetic cannabinoids, drug molecules that resembled the active constituent that relieved pain, caused gain in appetite and for the use as anti-obesity drugs. Few of the drugs and their uses are as follows. Dronabinol (Marinol) a tablet is a synthetic cannabinoid and is a very useful appetite stimulant. Additional properties of this drug are anti-emetic action that prevents vomiting and the pronounced analgesic effect that is produced. Nabilone (Cesamet) is yet another solid oral dosage form composed of the synthetic cannabinoid and it is chemically analogous to Marinol. Sativex a synthetic cannabinoid is useful in the elevation of neuropathic pain conditions and spasticity (spasm of muscles). Yet another drug Rimonabant is employed as an anti-obesity medicine and marketed as the name of Acomplia. It is very useful drug for the use for smoking termination.
Conclusion:
Medical marijuana is under controversy. And it will remain to be in controversy. These drugs are very useful and potent. But mankind and the past generations have used it for excessively recreational purpose. The hallucinating effect of marijuana is pronounced and thus it has potential for abuse. Each country has its own laws to combat the recreational use of marijuana and the laws at some places such us New York state, Arizona are so strict that merely the possession of marijuana can cause severe punishment (Pacula, 2002). It is a serious offence to carry marijuana and use it or distribute it. It is believed that if this herb is employed as a drug the benefits of it will be seen later rather the abuse and misuse will be observed in advance. Thus the medical science that is inching its steps towards healthy living will have to fight its own research for the betterment of the human society. In other word many people day after day say yes for using medical marijuana in medical purpose and there is a lot of research as we see help this kind of drug to be good treatment.
Meanwhile there is substantial evidence and research performed to support the benefits of medical marijuana and this is enough to establish it as a wonder drug. As mentioned there is no drug to match the potency, versatility, and wide range that is achieved by marijuana. Until and unless there is sever control and good regulation over the ethical chapters concerned with medical marijuana it is not possible to launch this product and see its benefits. There are many ways they use marijuana in their own traditional ways to benefit their health.
