Genes decide the characteristics of a person, an animal, or a plant. When the genes are modified, the characteristics can change. The technology of modifying genes is called transgenic technology. Transgenic technology has been developing for dozens of years. Scientists who use this technology change the genes of an organism in order to change its characteristics. The most widely used technology is producing genetically modified (GM) foods by changing genes of plants and germs. In other words, scientists are creating new species to get food. Most of the crops in the US are genetically modified crops, and up to 80% of corn is genetically modified ("GMO Compass," 2008). GM foods appeal to more and more consumers, because their prices are low, they are chemical-free, and they have high nutrition. But, there are some potential risks. According to Luca Bucchini and Lynn R. Goldman, the chemical-free feature is just temporary because resisting pests will disappear (Bucchini & Goldman, 2002). Also, according to Darwin, there is a balance among all the species on the earth. The predators eat vegetarians, and the vegetarians eat plants. The old are dying, and the new are coming into being (Darwin, 1859). If new species are produced, they will probably have an influence on the balance and cause serious problems, such as pollution and diseases. The most attention-grabbing thing is that GM foods do harm to humans. Even in Europe, most of people are against GM foods and the governments in some countries have published laws to forbid them (Sadler, 2003). GM foods have got people's attention all over the world, because they are only temporarily chemical-free, can reduce biodiversity, and do harm to humans. Since foods are very connected with people's daily lives, it is very important to solve these problems of GM foods.
The solution of using organic foods to replace GM foods is the best because organic foods are chemical-free permanently, have no bad influence on biodiversity, and are definitely healthy for people. From the dictionary, "organic" means something without the use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides, or other artificial agents (New Oxford American, 2003). Organic foods are natural and not affected by humans, so people do not need to worry about the problems of biodiversity and the healthy problems. In ancient times, people did not have such an advanced technology, so they planted natural crops and ate natural foods. What they ate was organic foods. Today, the aim of organic technology is to provide people with natural foods, like the foods in ancient times. All in all, organic foods will have high nutrition, be very healthy, and completely adapt to the environment. Although organic foods have these advantages, they still have some disadvantages, such as the high price, the scarce supply, and the undeveloped technology.
Despite the dangers of GM foods, many people feel that they are able to resist pests. Resisting pests means that GM crops can produce much food without much care. Why can GM corn have more total yield than normal corn? It is definitely because of the genes. The new genes of the corn can make this plant produce new protein that is poisonous for animals, birds, and worms. When pests are eating the leaves of the corn, this protein can make them die. Almost all the pests cannot do harm to GM corn (Costa-Font, Gi & Traill 2008). This kind of corn can grow up healthily and produce very much. Just because of resisting pests and having more total yield, GM crops are chemical free and low price. But, according to Darwin, new species would come out when the environment changed (Darwin, 1859). When the new pests come out, the protein will not be poisonous for them. Then resisting pests will disappear and people may use chemicals again. This is one problem that GM foods are only temporarily chemical-free.
Figure 1: The Proportion of GM corn in the US (http://www.gmo-compass.org/eng/agri_biotechnology/gmo_planting/393.usa_cultivations_2008_increase_gm_maize.html) it shows the increase of GM corn in the US from 1996 to 2008. In 2008, up to 80% of all corn is genetically modified.
Another problem of GM foods is about biodiversity. There are many genes in a species, many species in an area, and many ecological systems in the world. The variety of life is called biodiversity. A number of genes make the diversity of species. Species relay on each other and different species relay on different ecological systems. This is to say, biodiversity is very important for us. According to Gray, the genes of GM crops have been changed and they are new species that do not exist by nature (Gray, 2004). New species will probably have an influence in the environment. For example, from 1935 to 1950, Americans in southeastern United States planted Kudzu that was introduced from Japan to reduce soil erosion. The plant had a good vitality (Wikipedia, 2010). When it came to a new place from Japan, it flourished because of the appropriate environment. Soon it became out of control and the economic loss was up to billions of dollars. The environment had been effected a lot and could never be back again. As GM crops that are resisting pests are new species, the protein of resisting pests will probably do harm to beneficial insects. If the insects die, the animals that eat these insects will have no foods. Then, many things will be in trouble and the food chain will be broken. Resisting pests of GM foods becomes a disadvantage for the food chains and will have a big influence on biodiversity.
Figure 2: The kudzu makes a big effect on people's daily lives. (http://www.science-house.org/kudzu/kudzu-car.jpg) This picture shows that the kudzu has become a damage of the environment. This kind of plants is out of control. From it, people can know how it makes a big effect on people's daily lives.
The biggest problem that people concern about is about health. When the new genes are added to the corn, it is certain that the corn can resist pests. The fact is that the corn releases some new protein to resist pests. Sometimes, the new protein that is released by the corn makes a bad effect on the bodies of people. The new protein is made by the new genes, which are from other species. People that have an allergy to the things will probably have an allergy to the new protein because people absorb the new protein. According to Gaivoronskaia and Hvinden, "allergic consumers also were inclined to take more individual responsibility for risk avoidance than consumers without allergies" (Gaivoronskaia & Hvinden, 2006). That makes GM food dangerous. That is why Europeans are against GM foods (Sadler, 2003).
For these problems of GM foods, organic foods will solve all of them. As this paper talked before, organic foods are natural foods without chemicals uses or artificial changes. Therefore, people do not worry about the damage of biodiversity and risks of health. The biggest disadvantage is the high cost of them. Farmers spend a lot of time and money in promoting the external environment to make the higher quality foods. They give them the suitable temperature and the calculated sunshine. That makes them cost very much and the price of them high. The high price brings the scarce supply of consumers (Martin & Severson, 2008). As a new method, organic technology has not developed very well. Although organic foods have a few disadvantages, they still have some beneficial advantages that GM foods cannot compete with.
Compared with GM foods, organic foods are permanently chemical-free. GM foods can resist pests without using chemicals and compete with weeds by their strong vitality. How can organic farming deal with these? Farmers use some other equipment to protect crops from pests. Lights can attract some insects, and farmers can collect them and then kill them. Farmers weed the garden by some physical equipment instead of using chemicals. Even if the environments are not suitable for the crops, farmers will build green houses to grow organic crop. These green houses can provide more care to organic crops, and farmers can control the environments very well. People can easily change these external environments for the crops and upgrade the environments whenever they want to. These make organic farming differ from GM farming and make them chemical-free permanently.
Figure 3: Organic crops (http://www.tc.ymcahk.org.hk/organic_farm/pic/PHOTO/Organic%20Crops3.JPG) the green house can protect the crops very well.
Biodiversity is very important for the earth. The earth has been developing for so many years, and species have adapted to the environments in the earth. The example of Kudzu shows that new species will cause big problems because it breaks the balance between species in this area. Therefore, keeping its own environment is the best for the environment, the food chain, and the earth. The GM crops are new species. The organic crops are natural, and there are no new species in the organic farming. The aim of organic farming is to provide natural foods to people (Mark, 2009). To achieve it, organic farming is trying its best to make all the things natural. The crops are natural, and not using chemical fertilizer has no influence on the species around them. By the time organic farming provides high quality foods, it is protecting the biodiversity. So, it can solve the problem of biodiversity that GM farming has.
Are organic foods really good for people? Scientists say yes because they believe natural foods are the best for people. Today, there are many new diseases, such as mad cow disease, bird flu, and swine flu. People are worried that the foods can make them get diseases. For example, swine flu is a kind of flu that comes from swine. The disease appeared in swine first, and then it spread to people. According to Donald, the swine flu virus appeared because the farmers in Mexico did not care the swine very well (Donald, 2009). It will not happen in organic farming, because the organic farming will give swine good environments instead of giving them dirty houses and dirty foods. That makes the organic foods healthy for people. The animals and crops are natural, so people do not need to worry about the security of foods. They do not have the bad protein and the allergic risks that GM foods have. Therefore, organic foods can solve the healthy problems of GM foods.
Figure 4: The organic farming (http://www.yfdzb.com/yfdzb/html/2009-05/24/content_226901.htm) it shows the good environments which swine live in.
There are also some other solutions of these problems of GM foods, such as limiting the area of GM crops and labeling the GM products. Limiting the area of GM crops is a solution to solve the biodiversity problem of GM crops. By using barriers to limit the area of GM crops, the GM crops will not affect the biodiversity around them. But, it is difficult to isolate the GM crops completely. Insects can cross the barriers by moving underground, and birds can cross the barriers by flying. Also, the wind can make the seeds of GM crops spread outside. So, it is not easy to use this solution. Anther solution is labeling GM products. When consumers buy foods, they will choose which one they want, GM foods or normal foods. People who have allergy to GM foods will not buy them. But, a lot of people are not sure whether GM foods will have an influence on them. As more and more GM foods come out, people will be confused about GM foods. If one had already bought wrong, it would be too late to avoid buying the kind of foods. So, this solution is not very effective to solve the healthy problems of GM foods.
Figure 5: The GM foods label. (http://i.treehugger.com/images/2007/10/24/GM%20label.jpg) The genetically modified soybean oil has been labeled.
As GM foods show their benefits, people should be aware of the risks that they are only temporarily chemical-free, they have a big influence on the biodiversity, and they have the healthy problems. To solve these problems, people come up with a few solutions, such as limiting the area of GM crops, labeling GM products, and using organic foods to replace. For the three solutions, using organic foods is the only one that can solve all the problems of GM foods, because using organic foods mean taking GM foods away. Then the problems of GM foods will go away. Since organic foods are natural foods, people do not need to worry about the use of chemicals, the damage of biodiversity, and the security of foods. But, as a new method, organic technology has some disadvantages, such as the high price, the scarce supply, and the undeveloped technology. Removing these disadvantages and making organic foods widely used is waiting patiently for people. The job of the government is to advocate developing the organic technology and supply more money for it. Scientists should pay more attention to the organic technology. What the farmers do is to provide more organic foods to the markets. The consumers should consider more about their health and support organic foods. As the technology is developing and the supply becomes more and more, the price will be lower and lower. By removing the disadvantages, organic foods will replace GM foods step by step, and then all of the problems can be solved very well.
Reference
Bittman, Mark. (2009, March 22). Eating food that's better for you, organic or not. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/22/weekinreview/22bittman.html
Bucchini, Luca, & Goldman, Lynn R. (2002, Jan). Starlink corn: a risk analysis. Environmental Health Perspectives, 5-9.
Costa-Font, Montserrat, Gi, Jose M, & Traill, W. Bruce. (2008). Consumer acceptance, valuation of and attitudes towards genetically modified food: review and implications for food policy . Food Policy, 33(2), 99-111.
Darwin, Charles. (1859). On the origin of species. London, UK: John Murray.
Donald, Mcneil G. (2009, May 14). Swine flu not an accident from a lab, w.h.o. says. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/15/health/policy/15flu.html?r=1&scp=2 3&sq=cause20of%20swine%20flu&st=cse
Fromartz, Samuel. (2006). Natural foods and how they grew. Orland, Florida: Organic Inc.
Gaivoronskaia, Galina & Hvinden, Bjorn (2006) Science, Technology, & Human Values, 31(6), 702-730
Gray, Alan J. (2004). Ecology and government policies: the gm crop debate . Journal of Applied Ecology, 41(1), 1-10.
GMO Compass. (2008). Home page. Retrieved December 3 2008, from http://www.gmo- compass.org
Martin, Andrew, & Severson, Kim. (2008, April 18). Sticker shock in the organic aisles. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/18/business/18organic.html
Kudzu. (n.d.). Retrieved April 12, 2010, from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kudzu
Sadler, Troy (2003 Feb) Frankenfoods: Whose Values? Virginia: National Association of Biology Teachers.
Sahai, Suman (2004, Jun 5) Distrust of GM foods: Addressing Crisis of Confidence, Economic and Political Weekly, 39(23), 2340-2341
Schott, Jeri. (2009, Nov 30). Genetically modified food labeling. Retrieved from http://www.gm.org/gm-foods/genetically-modified-food-labeling
