Childhood obesity
Introduction
Childhood obesity is regarded as a situation whereby children have excess body fat. It involves putting in higher calorie numbers than are required by the body or which the body has the capacity to burn off (Rabin, 2010). Children who have twenty percent of weight that exceeds normal weight are considered obese. Many children nowadays fall within this category. This paper addresses the problem of childhood obesity which including causes, effects, and possible solutions. Some of the problems discussed are like heart diseases, and other complications, which include sleep apnea together with metabolic syndrome.
Childhood obesity causes
According to Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (2011), "obese youth are more likely to have risk factors for cardiovascular disease, such as high cholesterol or high blood pressure. In a population-based sample of 5- to 17-year-olds, 70% of obese youth had at least one risk factor for cardiovascular disease". There are various causes regarding childhood obesity which may be brought to light as follows. For instance, food choices have highly influenced the occurrence of obesity among children (Waters et al, 2011). An example in this case is the choice of sugary and high fat foods as an alternative to healthier options. These food categories highly contribute towards increased body weight among children and therefore these food steer childhood obesity.
Secondly, insufficient physical activity is a major cause regarding childhood obesity. It is through physical activities that bodies are able to burn excessive fats and bring about healthy living among children. Changing lifestyles have influenced some children such as children lack sufficient time to involve themselves in play and other activities which actively engage the body (Ludwig, Peterson & Gortmaker, 2001). This prevents their bodies from burning off excess fats which and therefore this result in fats accumulation which facilitates weight increase. Therefore, obesity conditions occur.
Thirdly, genetics has also contributed towards childhood obesity occurrence. Sources, such as, point out that certain rare disorders of genes steer the occurrence of obesity among children. Within other individuals, it has been found that certain genes performing together have the possibility of making some children highly vulnerable to obesity. In cases whereby there is tendency for a given family to experience overweight conditions, parents ought to become aware of selecting food choices which are healthy for their families (World Health Organization, 2011). It is therefore clear that genetic factors have brought about childhood obesity within some instances.
In addition, overweight parents have the capacity to childhood obesity among their children. This is due to the fact that by being overweight, there is the implication that the eating patterns held by the parents are generally sugary or fatty foods which steer obesity. These are likely to be introduced to their children and therefore they end up experiencing obesity problems. Sources highlight that the eating patterns held by a family have considerable influence upon whether healthy weight is maintained by children (Great Britain: Parliament: House of Commons, Committee of Public Accounts, 2007). Parents who are obese normally have less concern about attained weights by their children compared to parents who hold healthy weight (World Health Organization, 2011). Therefore, this substantiates the idea that overweight parents have the capacity to influence the occurrence of childhood obesity among their children due to undesirable diets.
The Great Britain: Parliament: House of Commons, Committee of Public Accounts. (2007) states that "Obesity is a serious health condition. It is defined as carrying too much body fat for your height and sex. A person is considered obese if they have a body mass index or BMI (weight in kilograms divided by the square of their height in metres) of 30 or greater." Moreover, childhood obesity comes up due to situations whereby children spend much time upon sedentary pursuits. Within most nations, children spend considerable time periods estimated at two and a half hours watching television on daily basis, and much time in electronic games and computer utilization (Straussm 2000). It is evident that the highlighted pastimes have ended up taking the place of active ones. As a result, children lack activities which have the capacity to burn off surplus fats within their bodies and therefore they are exposed to dangers of realizing childhood obesity.
The figure 1 shows the rise in obesity over the years for three age groups. The general trend for all age groups are increasing and reaches close to 15 percent with the ages 6-11 and 12-19 years showing the highest rise in percentage BMI in the years 1999-2000.
The figure 1: show the rise in obesity over the years for four age groups. Group one age 6-23 months, second group ages 2-5 years, third group ages 6-11, and the last one is ages 12-19 years. Childhood obesity effects
According to Hills & King (2007), "Despite the general consensus that environmental factors are likely to be important in influencing factors such as energy intake, physical activity levels and ultimate body weight, the empirical evidence of a relationship between specific environmental exposures and obesity is poor." Enormous effects have often been associated with childhood obesity as follows: childhood obesity brings about the occurrence of various health problems (World Health Organization, 2011). Children who are overweight when weighed against those having healthy weight have been found to have more likelihood of developing considerable health problems like high blood pressure and high cholesterol which are generally linked with heart disorders among adults. Overweight children also experience, type 2 diabetes, which was previously perceived as a disease among adults. In accordance with various sources, children having healthy weight have been found to be free of diseases which are weight related and the risks regarding developing of such diseases within adulthood (Hills & Kings, 2007)
Secondly, metabolic syndrome has also been experienced due to the occurrence of childhood obesity (Rabin, 2010). This is perceived as a combination regarding medical disorders which in events when they occur together, they augment the risk concerning diabetes, stroke and cardiovascular disease development.
In addition, sleep apnea has been found to be an effect associated with childhood obesity. In this case, sleep apnea is perceived as sleep disorder typified by abnormal breathing pauses or abnormally low breathing instances, during sleep. Sources have food that each breathing pause, regarded as apnea, has the ability to last for between few seconds to some minutes and may be experienced between 5 and 30 times within an hour (Strauss, 2000). This is usually perceived as undesirable occurrence among children hence the need to seek appropriate measures towards childhood obesity prevention (World Health Organization, 2011).
Weight together with poverty serve as effects associated with childhood obesity (Sharples, 2007). It was found out that individuals having persistent weight had higher likelihood of lacking further education past diploma at high school level. These individuals were receiving unemployment or welfare compensation at forty years of age and lacked current partners. It was further indicated that individuals who were chronically over weight had 50 percent likelihood of being unemployed, single and upon welfare (Rabin, 2010). This was believed to be as a result of discrimination within younger stages which interfered with held self-esteem together with their aspirations. This would therefore lead them to undesirable conditions like poverty and much weight (Great Britain: Parliament: House of Commons, Committee of Public Accounts, 2007).
Weight discrimination has been identified as another childhood obesity effect. Research undertaking revealed that individuals who were overweight had higher likelihoods of reporting discrimination compared to those having normal weight. Overweight children were found to report enormous cases whereby they were teased, unlike those who possessed normal weight levels. Teasing originating from peers and teachers as well as families gets internalized and therefore overweight children end up feeling inferior and therefore their aspiration is negatively influenced (Kiess, Marcus & Wabitsch, 2004). Research further pointed out that discrimination against children who were overweight was augmented up to sixty six percent over past decade in spite of the truth that increasing numbers of children are turning out overweight.
It is therefore apparent that the most instant outcomes concerning overweight attainment as viewed by children is low-self-esteem and social discrimination. Obese children were found to rate life quality with scores which are equally low as those held by children who suffered from cancer or cancer patients (World Health Organization, 2011). Therefore, research substantiates that children experiencing childhood obesity experience a variety of undesirable effects which negatively influence their health as well as social relations with other individuals and also children's view towards health.
Solutions towards childhood obesity
Various solutions have been identified towards childhood obesity as follows. For instance, recommended exercise is essential in resolving childhood obesity problems. Children should be involved in a combination of resistance and cardiovascular training. These components of fitness are essential in trimming down the factors of metabolic risks (Waters et al, 2011). Children should therefore be allowed to walk, run and engage within other exercises so that their bodies may be able to burn fats which are in excess to avoid obesity occurrence.
The figure 2 shows the physical and psychological barriers for obese people. They are identified as physical (excess weight, discomfort, and low s VO2 max) and
Psychological (embarrassment, self efficacy, self esteem, teasing, and previous negative experience) both lead to reduced tolerance and compliance with an exercise routine (World Health Organization, 2011).
Figure 2: shows the reduced tolerance and compliance between physical and Pschological.
The advantage associated with exercise is that it is cheap to attain and brings about healthy living among children such that the various problems associated with childhood obesity, either physical or psychological are done away with (Hills & King, 2007).
Some agree that the disadvantages associated with exercise are that some lifestyles do not allow for involvement in exercises. This is because individuals end up adopting lifestyles wherein children are heavily involved in electronics use which do not allow for much exercise. In these cases parents prefer appropriate diet selection wherein in much sugary and fatty diets are discouraged. (Kiess, Marcus & Wabitsch, 2004).
In addition, so as to attain suitable solutions towards childhood obesity, individuals are advised to ensure that children are appropriately restricted from the traps of game videos (Hills & King, 2007). Spending countless hours in gaming activities has been highlighted as detrimental towards the health of children. It is clear that all things should utilized or eaten in controlled ways. Parents should make attempts in introducing their children to active gaming like Nintendo Wii and XBox Kinect (Kiess, Marcus & Wabitsch, 2004). This keeps children active and ensures that the tendency of remaining inactive through participation in gaming activities which are inactive is done away with. This is very essential because through active playing activities, the body gains the capacity to burn fats which are perceived as excess within the body and therefore dangers associated with childhood obesity are eliminated (Kiess, Marcus & Wabitsch, 2004).
Secondly, children should be advised to make wise friend choices so as to ensure that only active friends are chosen. It is clear that children should include all individuals as friends but they should be advised to select active friends who are like minded. This will enable them to participate in programs concerning organized sports like competitions and creative games (Great Britain: Parliament: House of Commons, Committee of Public Accounts, 2007). Through this, it is apparent that children will be able to avoid dangers associated with childhood obesity due to being active. The associated advantage in this case is that by being in the company of other children, who are active, the children will be active throughout and therefore this will prevent them from experiencing childhood obesity (Kiess, Marcus & Wabistch, 2004).
The disadvantage on the other hand is that children may end up joining wrong company, which may lead to undesirable practices, which are against morality (Koplan & Liverman, 2005). Friends are able to help each other, but in some instances, children may join wrong groups which may end up ruining their lives. This may be through introduction to inactivity drug addiction, or other undesirable practices. Despite the highlighted disadvantage, children should to be encouraged to attain friends who are active because this will enable them to be active too.
Thirdly, nutrition has been perceived as a perfect way through which childhood obesity may be resolved. This means that through appropriate diet selection, children end up experiencing healthy living especially in cases where foods which have the capacity to prop up obesity occurrence such as sugary and also fatty diets are avoided. Research points out that caloric intake considerably increases through consumption of fast and processed foods. Parents should try to prevent children from meals such as cheese, macaroni, fries, french fries and fried chicken (Ludwig, Peterson & Gortmaker, 2001). They should recommend whole foods, vegetables and healthy fruits. These foods have the capacity to prevent excessive accumulation regarding fats and therefore ensure that children are well protected from obesity occurrence, which brings about enormous undesirable outcomes. The obesity prevention method of focusing upon nutrition is very much advantageous because it promotes healthy eating which steers healthy living attainment (Guerin, 2011). This is because the children are allowed to take nutritious diet, which builds their bodies and gives them the ability to overcome various diseases. It does not bring about fats accumulation and therefore this trims down risks associated with obesity.
Despite the experienced advantage, it can be difficult to determine nutrition level because individuals often rely upon labels on the foods, which in some instances are wrongly made (Waters et al, 2011)). This means that manufacturers have realized the food types which individuals seek and therefore they end up placing labels which mislead customers towards wrong food choices, thinking they are attaining their desirable food types. This has ended up endangering individuals because they may purchase foods labeled as containing low fats only to realize that the fat contents are very high. This aspect has enormously interfered with appropriate food choices by individuals and therefore it serves as a great disadvantage. However, this does not man that people should not eat healthy, if just means that they should be careful with labels. The other associated disadvantage is that proper food selection may not always be effective without incorporation of suitable exercises (Strauss, 2000). This means that proper food selection may not be effective especially in cases where involved lifestyle does not support sufficient exercises among children. Despite the fact that in some instances individuals are misled through labels, nutrition is essential and brings about healthy living.
Conclusion
From the highlighted aspects above, it is apparent that childhood obesity is dangerous to children and ought to be controlled at all costs. It is caused due to inappropriate food choices, genetic factors, insufficient physical activity, spending much time upon inactive hobbies and overweight parents. As a result, children experience various health problems like heart diseases, and other complications, which include sleep apnea together with metabolic syndrome. Appropriate food accompanied by sufficient exercise has the capacity to resolve childhood obesity problems. Child obesity is a serious problem and society needs to combat it.
