Religious Veils in France
France's population has the highest percentage of Muslims in Europe. Islamic religion is considered the second religion that predominates in France. Muslim people has their communities and do their religious activities every day. Islamic religion has a rule that provides Muslim female should cover their bodies because what they believed. Muslim people called this clothe that cover the body for many names. The most popular names are Niqab and Hijab; these names are depending on situation by how it looks like and how it covers the body. First, Hijab is originally Arabic word that means covering. It is a cloth that wraps around female neck which includes the hair and cover the rest of the body (BBC, 2010). A lot of Islamic scholars agree that Quran mentioned Hijab directly. There are verses in the holy book provides the veil such as, "O Prophet! Tell thy wives and daughters, and the believing women, that they should cast their outer garments over their persons (when abroad): that is most convenient" (Qur'an 33:59), (BBC, 2010, Para 8). This verse is from the holy book but, it translated to English. So, the most of scholars agreed that this verse provides that Muslim females to cover the body which called Hijab. Second, Niqab is like Hijab but, it is different with covering the face. Because, Niqab covers the face except the eyes and area around the eyes. Most of Muslim scholars disagree with Niqab, because, the scholars who think Niqab is not required are considered Niqab just for Prophet Muhammad's wives. However, there are some of scholars agree Niqab for Muslim females as well. So, Hijab and Niqab might have different perspectives of Muslim people, but, all of Muslim scholars considered Islamic veil or specifically Hijab and Niqab is required in Islam. The picture down explain the differences between Islamic veils and has the same purpose which is covering the body.
Figure 1 these are some religious veils and how they look like. BBC, news
Although, Muslim females wear religious veil as active faith, French government considered religious veil which Hijab cover the body and Niqab cover body and the face as well which threat public in France and even against history of France. Because of that, on June 22, 2009, president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy has decided to ban religious veil in Public services, (Britton .D, 2011). French parliament has enacted a new law that any women wear religious veil cannot utilize any public services. For example, women how wear religious veils cannot get any public services which are transportation, public parks and even enter any French department. But, on July 13, 2010, French government has decided to ban the full cover religious veil in any public spaces by the vote 246 to1 of French parliament, (Britton, 2011). French government is one of countries that does not believe religion, because, they think that freedom should not be following a religion. However, Muslim people are angry about the new law which is banning the religious veil, because, the new law that has enact in France is totally against Muslims rights and even the human rights. As a result, there are some women arrested in public because they were wearing the religious veil.
Figure 2 a Muslim women wear Niqab were arrested by the police. Mail news
France government has a long history of secularism, because, France government is considered secularism one of the most important thing for freedom. Secularism means no religion that is required for people. In the past, Most of people in France are debating to separate the religion from the country. They do not want any religion that might bother their freedom. As a result, on February, 1795, the French government provides to ban any wearing that guide to any kind of religion and separated the Church and from the French country, (Britton, 2011). However, freedom is very important for all people over the world to choose any thing which includes religions. Muslim people are free to choose Islamic religion and what the religion provides. Hijab and Niqab or headscarf is faith that Muslim people believed in their dally habit. According to Human Rights organization, "International human rights law obliges state authorities to avoid coercion in matters of religious freedom" (Human rights, 2004, Para 3). On other word, it is part of personal freedom to believe roles of the religion that they have chosen. Muslim female have the right to wear any cloth that they want because, French government wants their country free and the people as well.
In addition, since French government banned any wearing guide to religion in 1795, Muslim females were enabled to wear the religious veils in public from 2000 until 2010. For illustration, 2000 is the time when the Muslim population increase in France, (Tisso, 2011). 2010 is the time the religious veils banned in France. So, between 2000 to 2010 Muslim females abled to wear religious veil in public without any notice from the police. Why did the French government ban the religious after allowing them for such long time? Even though France has been secular since 1795, this rule was only introduced 2010.
French government are using gender equality to justify their perspective. They think that it is important part to complete the human rights. Gender equality means each gender has the power to wear anything and having the same opportunity for men and women in public. French government think religious veil for females is not freedom because males do not cover by religious veils. This is good point for French government but, Muslim does not accept it. Muslim agrees that each gender has the power of doing anything and even wearing religious veils. Muslim females do not force to wear, but, it is something they believed. No one was forcing them. They want to wear the religious veil that decided by them self. Also, the new law is force them to wear thing that they do not like it and this is against the gender equality. Also, France government should not consider gender equality a good reason to ban religious veil in France. In fact, gender equality work in different way. For example, having the same opportunity of job in country is considered by gender equality which are women and men. Also, gender equality is very important for education which is having equal opportunity for men and women. So, the point is that banning religious veils is taking away a right of Muslim females not giving a right and gender equality work with other things which is equal education and equal opportunity of jobs for women and men. They are not giving the women the power to choose for themselves.
Public security is considered the most essential reason that justifies French government's perspective about the religious veil. In fact, French government has the rights to protect the public security. French government ban religious veil in public because, they think religious veil is dangerous. According to BBC news, "a ban in public places such as schools, hospitals and law courts could be justified for security reasons, to combat fraud and to meet the needs of some services" (BBC news, 2012, Para 7). So, Niqab and Hijab is considered by French government a cloth that covers the identity of the women who wear veils which will cause the danger in society. Because, there some criminals who used religious veil for bad purposes such as stealing money. For example, with stolen credit card the criminals can wear a veil than go to any ATM to get the money without knowing the identification. Also, terrorists use religious veil for bad purpose such as killing people which happened in Afghanistan. They put a pump around their body and explode in any public places just to kill people. However, Muslim people are considered the public security is important. But, that does not mean take their rights or their freedom. They have been in France for long time. The police notice a few people who use religious veil for bad purpose. On other word, if the government is going to ban a public service because of something bad happen in this public serves, the all public services will banned. For example, driving is appropriate technology to save time. But, the whole world notice the bad effects of car accident. Every year and even every month people die because of car accident. So, should France government ban driving cars because of car accident? Similarly, there a few crimes happened via the religious veil. Then, the French government banned the religious veil in public. As a result, public security is important for French government and is important for Muslim people as well, but, it does not mean taking the Muslim right which is religious veil.
Islamic veil is not dangerous in public spaces. In France, there are a lot of Muslim have been long time there. The French government noticed a few problems with religious veil. Also, there are some clothes that sometimes cover the identity. For example, Heavy cloth never be a big problem in French public and never in the French parliament. They do not ban the heavy cloth which sometimes cover the identity because cold winter, there is no limit of clothing in the winter. It is considered like the veil because the heavy clothes in winter cover the identity However, the French government never ban the heavy cloth in the winter that might cause the public dangers by covering the identity.
So, there is simple solution to solve the covered identity in public places, "Only places of public service would be affected by the ban and only if the identification of the person in those places was deemed necessary'' (Human Rights, 2004). The French government can enact a new law that provides women who wear religious veil uncover their faces in any enters of any places of public serves. For instance, Saudi Arabia is Islamic country that has enacted a law by Islamic religion which women should were religious veils in public. Saudi Arabia has a law that women should uncover their faces in any public serves such as banks and airports. This law is acceptable for people in Saudi Arabia and even Muslim people over the world, because, they believe uncovering faces in any public access is very necessary for the identity and public security. Since covering their faces can be a problem for security, Muslim women can be asked to uncover their faces.
Wearing the veil is not just a tradition, it is important active faith for Muslim women Muslim females wear Hijab and Niqab for role in Islamic religion and they believed. The purpose of wearing veils is hiding between men and women, (Abu-Rabia, 2006). Muslim females wear the veil for just one reason which is their active faith. However, French government think Islamic veil just a tradition that if they banned, they will leave it easily. But, this is wrong, because, "For many Muslims, wearing a headscarf is not only about religious expression, it is about religious obligation" (Human rights, 2004). As a result, it is something they believed and worship god by the religious veil.
Since president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, said religious veil are not welcome in France, the French parliament start justify his perspective by a few reasons which are not justifiable and are not acceptable for Muslim people human rights in France. All Muslim people in France agreed that France has a long history of secularism which derived from freedom, but, freedom provides that people are free to choose their religion and even their cloth. Clothes are very simple right that people can have in free country. France government has the right to protect the public from dangerous activity, but, religious veil is not dangerous and it does not mean taking a human right away. The French police do not have a large number of crimes that happened via the religious veil. The only easy solution is uncovering the faces when it is a problem for security in public. Muslim females like to wear religious veil because it is faith in their religion. Therefore, for the best interest of gender equality and religious freedom, France needs to lift its ban on the Muslim veils. At the end, if the French government want the freedom for their country and for their people, they will lift the ban from the public.
Reference Page
Abu-Rabia, A. (2006). The Veil and Muslim Women in France: Religious and Political Aspects. Anthropology Of The Middle East, 1(2), 89-107. doi:10.3167/174607106780586923
BBC. (2011). Niqab. Retrieved March 26, 2012, from http://www.bbc.co.uk/religion/religions/islam/beliefs/niqab_1.shtml
BBC. (2012, 15 June). The Islamic Veil across Europe. Retrieved march/29, 2012, from http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/5414098.stm
Davis, B. D. (2011). Lifting the Veil: France's New Crusade. Boston College International & Comparative Law Review, 34(1), 117-145.
Human rights. (February 27, 2004). France, headscarf ban violates religious freedom. Retrieved March 29, 2012, from http://www.hrw.org/en/news/2004/02/26/france-headscarf-ban-violates-religious-freedom
Ismail, B. (2010). France Votes Yes. Middle East Quarterly, 17(4), 47-55.
Running for cover. (2010). Economist, 395(8682), 66-67.
Tissot, S. (2011). Excluding Muslim Women: From Hijab to Niqab, from School to Public Space. Public Culture, 23(1), 39-46.
Visuals links;
http://www.bbc.co.uk/religion/religions/islam/beliefs/niqab_1.shtml
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1375654/France-burka-ban-Two-arrested-Paris- protest.html
1
RELIGIOUS VEILS IN FRANCE
