Perception of Drugs
Abuse of substance had always been a delicate question since it deal with health issue, individual well beings as well as lives of human being. It is simple to know that drugs are harmful and dangers. They are usually harmful to heart, brain, central nervous system. Drugs change the way the body and the brain function. Sometime the results are pleasant as in the case of drugs. The drugs are really dangers in our life and we have to be careful about the drugs. The economic cost of methamphetamine use in the united state reached $23. 4 billion in 2005. Including the burden of addiction, premature death, drug treatment and many other aspects of the drugs according to a new RAND corporation study. In this essay I will argue that how drugs are used on American collage policies of those campues to control drug abuse and how NAU falls on this scale.
How drugs are used on American collage. Many people said that some of drugs are good and helpful for example some pills that help you to be awake all the time but it cause a lot of problem in your mind. The people who took this kind of pills may are in the university because they got a lot of things to do and there is no enough time but people who think like that are crazy because first you have to ask your self what will cause in the future.
,
According to Ryan L Redman Some of people said that drugs are bad because it cause many problem such as heart you body loss friend and many things. Illegal drugs are not good for everyone, but they are particularly bad for a kid or teen whose body is still growing. Illegal drugs can damage the brain, heart, and other important organs. Cocaine, for instance, can cause a heart attach even in a kid or teen.
Some polices of those campues to control drugs abuse. It is in the best interests of the University, its employees, and its students to provide assistance to those with personal problems involving alcohol, drugs, family, marriage, finances, emotions, or other conditions which may interfere with work attendance, productivity, and the ability to get along with co-workers. The University believes that an effective Employee and Student Assistance Program encourages wellness and promotes efficiency of its faculty, staff, and student members. Drug user affect non-user in many way for example if anyone lives with drug user will be worried about what he or she doing. Because they lived together. Also the drug user make the non-user do it. There is one personal life example, one of my friend died because of drugs and it's hard to stop taking drugs and when my friend died i felt really sad and anger about that because he died of drugs. Some people said drugs user not affect non-user because if the person has brain and knows the affect will not use it and most drugs user are child or teen (Express News Service) and they can cause a lot of problem such as crime, The most recent annual data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) show that 12. 2 percent of more than 14 million arrests in 2008 were for drug violations. The proportion of total drug arrests has increased over the past 20 years: in 1987, only 7. 4 percent of all arrests were for drug violations. I agree that drugs user will affect the non-user. Because of my friend he was lived with one of his friend and he did what his friend did and he used it for 3 years and he tried to stop it but he couldn't.
There are some types of drugs will kill you if you do it Continuously. Also it prescribed by doctor to help individuals to feel calm and the vicitms eventually fall asleep. But some people thought that is good if you have exam or something like that to stop sleeping and focus about the things. That really dangeres and the child and teen should know about that.
The hallucination is quite a series problem since the sense is in the confused state where by the victim experience sound as colors as well as speeding up movement with time. Hallucinogenic is not addictive; however the victim can easily develop a tolerant of their impacts that may lead to high consumption of the drug. It does not matter whether the
effects that were experience were good or bad, it depends on the kind of the individual and the feeling they had under the influence. It leads to panicky and frights, one can be physically hurt
The negative consequences of drug abuse affect not only individuals who abuse drugs but also their families and friends, various businesses, and government resources.
Although many of these effects cannot be quantified, ONDCP recently reported that in 2002, the economic cost of drug abuse to the United States was $180. 9 billion. NSDUH data indicate that in 2004 over 3. 5 million individuals aged 18 and older admitted to having injected an illicit drug during their lifetime. Of these individuals, 14 percent (498,000) were under the age of 25. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that 123,235 adults living with AIDS in the United States in 2003 contracted the disease from injection drug use, and the survival rate for those persons is less than that for persons who contract AIDS from any other mode of transmission. CDC further reports that more than 25,000 people died in 2003 from drug-induced effects. People who use drugs can end up stealing, car crime, housebreaking and muggings are obvious choices. If you have been mugged or broken into you don't feel the same, it shakes you up, you don't feel such a trust for strangers, this affects community for the worse. It also breaks down communities.
Every one has believes which good or bad for you health. Drugs cannot be good but could be bad. The drugs are dangers in our life and we have to be careful about it. The drug user should know that drugs cause a lot of problem such as crime and death. My personal opinion that drugs are the most dangers thing in our life.
