Benefits and Harms in Video Games
The number of video games containing violent content has increased a lot in the last twenty years. On other hand , video games have many benefits on players . Kids as young as seven are easily able to buy and rent mature rated video games. And kids today are playing more and more video games than ever before (Wey Online). Most violent video games show players kicking, hitting, whipping, shooting, punching, and killing other players. The National Coalition on TV Violence found that seventy percent of video games today contain, decrease violence on children Salamander. Why is there so much violence in video games? Ken Wirt, assistant vice-president of NEC, says that violent games in many stores that received many children from age 10 -16 and these dangerous ages for these children because its puberty time that there are build their personality. The new and goes up violent video game culture is creating many different actions, such as change of behavior, and child thought , on other hand, they are many people that thought that video games it has benefits on child mind which help children to be more talent and smart.
Video games are becoming more and more violent as time goes on. Video games started in the nineteen seventies (Farrales). The first video games were simple with a white ball moving back and forth across the screen. In the last decade, video gaming has increased in popularity because of new technology and the ability to create more realistic games.. This is thanks to increased technology and knowledge of games and graphics. Also, in the last decade video games have taken a turn on the more violent side. Games today, such as Grand theft Auto, Resident Evil, and Crime Life have become very controversial. Parents believe that these games are harming their kids and making them more violent. Kids on the other hand see these violent video games as harmless entertainment (Sinclair). The debate has been researched thoroughly by scientists who say that there is a direct connection between increased violence in children and the use of violent video games.
In additional , they are many people that believes on video games benefits and how it work to let they children more intelligent. As mentioned on self growth.com website. Those video games encourage many children to play and have the soul of competition that's going to help them on the future. Furthermore, video games help player to gain may skills and improve it. For example when child play games with others players that help him to be more attention, and also when game is about to find solution to get out of somewhere on levels of games that help children to work there mind and be more creative. Even if theses video games have more benefits but still there are many studies that show up .
There have been recent studies proving the link between increased aggression in children and violence in video games. The American Psychological Association(APA) journal of Personality and Social Psychology carried out two research projects proving this connection. The first project, "reveals that young men who are habitually aggressive may be especially vulnerable to the aggression-enhancing effects of repeated exposure to violent games. (1 This means that boys are already somewhat aggressive in nature and violent video games make this aggression worse. The second study shows the effects of violent video games on college students. Two hundred students were tested by playing either a violent video game or a nonviolent game. All students were asked to punish their opponents after they were done playing by ringing a loud buzzer. The students who played the violent games were shown to punish their opponents for longer than the students who played the non-violent games. "Violent video games provide a forum for learning and practicing aggressive solutions to conflict situations," said Dr. Anderson (APA).
When kids come into contact with so much violence they learn to be violent themselves and they begin to handle situations in a violent way. They grow up thinking that because there is so much aggression in video games that is how the real world must be. They do not know any better.
Moreover, video games as mentioned above help players more than more. For example: there are many of players are trying to learn others languages and improve math skills such us, students who is go oversees to learn English video games it going to help them by use a new teqnolgicly. All of people theses days use modern teqonlogyia that's goes up every day to give people more space on their house and let them communicate with people even if there are oversees. From this video games these days help players or students who is want to learn another languages to make it easy for them to communicate with people oversees. In fact, theses video games helps many of people to learn a language when they play games online . For example of theses video games : call of duty and need for speed . In these games they provide for user , players to connect with internet and communicate with many players over world . Like when they play call of duty thy are going to choose level that include many of players over world and they start to talk with them by the headset. In fact, that's also, going to improve their attention and there thought. On other hands, there are many of video games that let many of players do violence things .
In the book, Kid Stuff: Marketing Sex and Violence to America's Children, Ravitch Viteritti talks about the connection between violent video games and shootings in schools. Many researchers believe that there is a direct connection between violent video games and the increase in school shootings and violence. In the past decade school violence and shootings have increased dramatically. When kids see violence in video games they bring that violence to school with them and everywhere else they go. The majority of students will not become killers however, a small percentage that do have been proven to be influenced by violent video games. The Columbine shootings that occurred in 1999 are one example of video game culture and how it got out of hand. The two boys involved in the shooting were later seen to have been influenced by violent video games, television, and lifestyle.
Furthermore, violent video games strengthen the gap between male and female. Violent video games are directed at males just as Barbie's are directed at females. This creates a gap between male and female. Some people have argued that this gap is unhealthy and dangerous. Sue Howard, in her book, Wired-Up, writes that "video game culture is strongly male focused and intensely masculinity, aggressive, and violent culture." Violent video games according to Howard are promoting male dominance. Because the games are made for boys boys are the ones who are affected by the violence. Perhaps there would be a different outcome if violent video games were directed at girls instead. The gap that these games create is creating a male based society.
In additional, did you ever heard about they can use video games to help people to district pain ?. According to one statement games help many of children who ill or just had surgeries that's video games help them to interrupt the pain and focus on games .because of that many of hospitals that try to encourage them even if those people who have painful treatment to play these video games . In conclusion , even if these video games have many benefits on people or children that's many studies show that Violence in video games has become common and every day among children. The games themselves are becoming more and more violent and kids are playing the games more and more often. There have been many studies showing the effect of such violence games on children and in cases it has been proven to have a negative effect on kids who are becoming more violent themselves. Violent video games also have been said to have an effect on gender inequality. Sue Howard points out in her book that these video games are directed at young boys and they create violence among young boys and strengthen the gap between male and female. Overall, violent video game seem to have the positive effect of keeping kids entertained and happy, but is this worth the violence and aggression that these video games cause in the future? For now the decision is up to parents and whether they want their child to be exposed to violent video games.
