Should students use technology when they study?
Technology became in brief something Important in our lives no one can dispensing Technology easily, as a cell phones or laptops, also computers, those technologies become friends with the people. In schools and works and everywhere around us they would use it. That's mean it's really necessary and we really need it. But the question is should student use technology when they study or not? Students like to use technology because it's easy to find what they want and It's simple to use. Clearly, everything in the life has some good and bad aspects, so technology has two different side, some people prefer student using technology and the others don't agree with that idea. Truly, using technology might affect our students and makes them addicted, and makes them lazy to use their brains to think even about ting things . people if they start using something easy they will try to keep it and use it all the time no matter if that's positive or negative about their lives and their future that's seriously affect us and our new generation. Well, they will be lazy and they will depends about technology hindered percentage. In other hand, using advanced technology helps to improve the scientific level, to make the students study very well, and get more benefits from the technology, and development of the better students that's my position. Also its will save them a lot of time and benefit them to improve their scientific simply. Honestly, technology one of the most important means of development in this time. In addition, technology will make the complex stuff easy for the students, like when they use technology they can share the answers on te technology, if that cell phones or computers, so they could use it and get a lot of information by it.
Well, technology is a big issue in our society and there are two different sides of people, some of them agree and some of them not. In fact, Technology is very important and everyone likes to use it everywhere and some people could tell it's the easy way to learn to many things, cell phone is belong to our technology but the problem when the student use it they may not pay attention in high schools or in any other degrees. In addition, cell phone in high school will make the students busy during the class time and it's make the classmate lost so they can't focus with the teacher and the sounds of the phone might be noise and loudly which is make the class missy.
In other hand, students will need cell phone in too many cases, such as emergency call, students also can use it in right way while the class time they could use the Calculator and foreign students could use cell phone with Wi-Fi to use Google translator or to get some information. In Saudi Arabia the technology it's not as here in USA so we don't have advance materials for the students as some different countries. In high schools they need to use technology to show make the students understand what the teachers want, like when he or she want to explain lesson some time the teacher needs to put some pictures to make the lesson clear to understand for the students., so I really agree with the article student should use cell phone in high school or even in any other degree .
Some teachers hate to use technology, because it's taking time to log in sometimes which is wasting the class time. Next, some teacher doesn't like to use it because of the sounds of their own computer or from the students computer sounds. Some teachers are concerned about not using technology for students which is mean they may not develop their strength and mental skills grow as natural mental. Also, using technology that could kill some of the skills of scientific. For example, when the students use technology they might not get the idea very well to make him or her think by his or her self. Which could benefit the community in the future and the benefit of the person for the future.. However, my view is, using technology is one of the best ways to improve the level of study, and to improve some skills which is we might get a lot of advantages for our new generation, so we could use their talent and Mentality and intelligence and skills to develop many things in our lives. For instance, to help our students think by their selves and trying to do their jobs, which is we need in our daily lives. In other word, Increase students' awareness in the sense of teaching aids, by Technology students could overcome the difficulties they may face in subjects. In addition, there is some materials we needs for example, Display, recording and gramophone, television and teaching machines and other devices and tools, both of which are designed specifically for the purpose of the subsidy in teaching or borrowed from the field of pure industries, those stuff are useful and assistant to our students and to the teachers also. Besides, students can find their grades, HW, assignments, Quizzes, in easy way for both sides.
Furthermore, using online technologies to extend a classroom to learners at a distance, could be a good idea for the instructors but not really good for the students, because they might get some problems while they are trying to share some different ideas online, maybe the internet connection would be slowly any time, while they are trying to do online quizzes or HW or any other different assignments. Well, it's useful for the teachers and it might not be useful for the students to submit some stuff. However, technology is helpful for the students to be educated, and to save some time to do something else like studying or learning something new, and it would be hard for them, if they got some problems they are able to contact the emergency numbers or email the instructor to announce about any problems. After all, online technology would help to connect the world's fastest time and lowest cost. Internet helps to provide more than one way of teaching so that the Internet is a large library where all books are available, whether easy or difficult. Internet leads to benefit from educational programs on the Internet and take advantage of some of the documentaries that have a relationship to the curriculum. By technology we can learn about the latest scientific research and education and access to the latest versions of magazines and pamphlets.
Nonetheless, there are some many cites mentioned studying via technology, and explained some advantages and disadvantages and make it clear to see if the technology will increase and develop the people to the best or will let them down by using technology and lost their time by using the technology in wrong way. Which mean technology always affect the environment in the schools or out the schools. However, we could see the improvement in Pakistan, they learned a lot of stuff they learned how to speak different languages via Internet or to learn different way to study or browsing in some interesting and simple ways. Some students believe use technology in wrong way, like to change some pictures and make fun about people or something else, and some students or some people like to use it to disable some programs such as the task of government programs, or some banks programs. However, In fact the behavior of students and their impact in the technology is important, And found to be positive if interested in their talent and their behavior, such as teachers and parents. Technology is everywhere over the world. Generally, students can get the experience via technology and they could see the right way and the wrong way, like the might use it to play video games during classes . Also, using technology in the classroom might be much better than teaching in old way.
This picture show the percentage of teachers who use the technology on their classes, which mean the teachers need the technology on their classes to teach their students very well. And in my opinion, the schools need to spend some money to buy technology to help their students to improve their skills on the technology.
Now that, the argumentative still appear everywhere, In GREECE in some schools and in different degrees, secondary school or high school or even in university, some people argue because they don't need to use it while they are teaching the students ART, they feel it's not useful to teach the students how to drew via internet. However, student's in Greece are using technology to develop their students and make them able to drew in different way so that's would be excellent idea for them to learn well by some advance materials, also in the program they use technology to design that stuff that can help people to understand faster. For example, doing some advertising for they people from the students and the technology on the classes, which can show their talent to the people.
This picture shows the number of students who use technology on the class, and this picture also tell us the students who wants to use technology on their classes to help them on the class.
In addition, there is some many ways to communicate via technology we could get a lot of new ideas to make something new by technology. We could send some important information to some people and get the feedback in short time. However, students could get responded of their teachers in fast way if they got any problems. also, students can get some information from the cites to find some sources for their essays.
In other hand, some people doesn't agree with idea of mixing technology with education and they consider that is not successful to our society, because they think the technology will effect on the students brain. However, students and teachers could feel more comfortable by using technology in their education and make the hard thin easier to use and find out.
In conclusion, they technologies are important in our life, and there are some places we need to use the technology on it, as I said the internet and the cell phones or any other technology on the high schools or the universities, and those technologies will save a lot of time on benefits things. But technology might be bad on the same time, because students will depend on the technology, then they will not use their brain to make them think about easy stuffs.
