WP#5 "Using technology in Soccer"
Is it better to use a technology for soccer? The debate about using goal-line technology for soccer has become popular in the whole world. Goal line technology is a technology that helps the referees to know if the ball crossed the goal line or not. The debate for using the technology in soccer has become wide. With computers having almost taken over our lives, the debate is even intense and it reached a peak before the 2010 world cup in South Africa. The controversy using the technology in soccer is huge. In soccer, the debate has risen when major errors are made especially in major competitions. During successive world cups, referees have been accused of sending deserving teams home in crucial matches. The errors go way back to the 1966 world cup final between England and West Germany to the most recent world cup when England was denied an equalizer that the whole world could (Kelso, 2010). Also, the accident happen again in 2010 when Frank Lampards accident during World Cup 2010 when he shots the ball, when his ball cross the line and the referees did not decide it as a goal, because he thought that the ball did not cross the line. That happens between Germany and England in World Cup 2010. (As it can be clearly seen in Figure 1).
Figure 1: this figure shows the Frank Lampard accident in World Cup; http://arsenalist.com/2010/06/27/england-goal-was-not-in/ In Figure 1, shows an obviously the ball crossed the line. However, the referee decided that it was not a goal. The International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) who is the responsible of this sport has decided lately to not use this technology (Kelso, 2010). Nevertheless, the Frank Lampard's accident, and the other accidents happened, FIFA has been more serious to use technology and, to revive and reconsider of using technology (Lewis, 2010).
There are arguments that the game should remain natural in terms of players and officiating and to support this, they quite the great footballer Pele who called it the "beautiful game." (Dellon, 2010). Thus, group of people think that FIFA should use the technology to increase the fairness. On the other hand, other group of people thinks that soccer does not require a goal line technology, because human should direct all the soccer without use technology. Also, they feel denying technology a chance in soccer while all the other sports have integrated the same is remaining in the dark ages. Furthermore, without using technology will bring more enthusiasm for fans. Moreover, they think that using goal line technology will cost lot of money.
Figure 3: The goal line technology
Before the argument between who support goal line technology and who against them, people will know how this technology works depicts the system of goal-line technology. In the Figure 3 above shows and explains the technology and process in which the goal line technology is processed in. The balls that are used in the games are provided with 6 microchips embedded with the sponge covering. The costs of the goal lined up with cameras on the edges of the fields. At the time that the ball passes the cost line, the cameras with the lazier beams catches the signals from the microchips. As soon as that happens, the referee gets a signal indicating that the pass passed the line!
When critics talk of technology in soccer, there is always a minimalistic view to the whole idea. Technology in soccer is a broad area that not only encompasses goals and scores. For many years, every part of the game from the players' kits, to the balls has been improved through technology. The Jabulani ball that was used during the 2010 world cup same after years of spirited effort by Adidas engineers (Marcus, 2009). However, they think that goal line technology should not be used in soccer. Overall, the evidence suggests that goal-line technology will improve soccer. This paper seeks to shows that goal line technology is beneficial.
There is a supporter for using technology in soccer. That people support using technology in soccer to decrease the mistakes that the referees produce during the match (Marcus, 2010). The supporters want a more reliable system. However, the hawk-eyes can be using easily in soccer (James, 2010). Supports confuse why FIFA is not trying to use it now. Goal-line technology would improve the soccer, and make soccer fair enough. For example, Frank Lampard goal if it counted, the score of the match would change. Hawkins trusts the goal-line technology that makes soccer better (James, 2010).
On contrast, the resistance against goal line technology to aid referees has also been raging at the same time. The simple argument is that soccer is not about fairness but quick human reflex and decisions. The fact that many handballs pass without getting noticed and many players escape nasty tackles clearly proves this, (The inquisitor, 2010). For instance, the fans feel a range of emotions from anger to happiness, throughout the match because of the decisions made by referees. Blatter shows soccer want to have an emotion for fans (Reuters, 2011). Blatter believes that the emotions of this game made by referees. The mistakes make this sport interested for fans and the special sport will be worked by referees, not technology. Also Blatter believes that emotions of the game give the fans feel exciting, and without exiting the fans did not want to see soccer.
However, If the soccer not fair that might be a fight between people in soccer, between fans or player that lead to damage in the health or the stadium. According Kartsev (2003), a 24-year old man dead and others were seriously injured in a fight between soccer fans in Wroclaw. This fight happens because of the fault of the referee which led the other teams to win. The fight broke out after a game between the teams Arka Gdynia and Slask Wroclaw. For this reason, using technology will protect the fan's life.
Moreover, people who support using technology in soccer said that they need to make soccer more efficient. They show how the technology is more important and efficiency than the referees, and the technology might change the score of the game. Efficiency is significant to increase the fairness of the match. Fairness is very important because most of teams spend lots of money to buy players in order to win and sometimes one mistake from the referees affects the whole match. That shows an efficient scoring system could develop the match in soccer. For example, in Figure 2 was one of the catalysts that lead to more calls for goal line technology which FIFA has vehemently opposed over time. The ball is clearly over the line and if the referee had the assistance of a video camera, the whole world cup results might have been different.
Figure 2: The ball cross the line and it did not count as a goal. (New Scientist, 2011) The reduction in human errors can clearly aid the image of soccer because other sports such as tennis have already applied the same to avoid losing fans, (New Scientist, 2011). The FIFA and the International Football Association board (IFAB) have over the last few months appreciated that with goal line technology, there will be more efficiency. The morale that players lose after being denied victory will also be reduced and hence, the game will become better. However, there are tough rules that any technologies proposed must meet and so far, none has met them, (Reuters, 2011).
In addition, using technology would help the referees to decide whether the ball crossed the line or not. By using goal-line technology, the referees will not make the referee under pressure. The German player, Klose states, "I am not sure about video replays but if you have a chip in the ball that sends a signal to the referee's ear or beeps, then why not" (Molinaro, 2010). Klose explains that using goal-line technology would help the referees a lot. For example, until now, there is a huge debate about Sevilla's player, Luis Fabiano's shot against Real Madrid in the Copa Del Ray tournament. Even with the replays, FIFA still did not determine whether the ball crossed the line or not, and that made Sevilla lose the game. Using goal-line technology would help to increase the fairness of each match by giving the referees an indication if the ball crossed the line then the referee will not be blamed.
Although the critic believes that goal-line technology would slow the pace of the game, the technology would help the referees by lessening the time it would take to make a decision. The executive of the Football Association of Wales, Jonathan Ford says, "I was worried that you would end up with a stop-start situation where you review all decisions and I don't see that as part of the game" ("Football's lawmakers reject goal-line technology" 2010). Jonathan Ford expresses that referees make decisions quickly, and mistakes become a part of the game. However, mistakes should not be part of the game because they cause the game to be unfair. Also they president of FIFA, Blatter states" If play were to be stopped to take a decision, it would break up the rhythm of the game" (Marcus, 2010). Blatter thinks that using technology would stopped the game several times for taking a decisions, and that would make the game longer and boring for fans. However, goal-line technology will help the referees to call faster whether the ball crossed the line or not. Once the ball crossed the line, the referees will get an indication so that he could make the decision immediately. In the end, the critics are wrong because goal-line technology would not slow the pace of the game.
In addition, some supporters think the goal line technology might be too expensive especially if we want to use it in whole world. Blatter and FIFA will be responsible for updating all the stadiums with this technology. According to Blatter,"An affordable system which is not too complicated or too expensive" (Blatter, 2011). Blatter explains the expensive of technology in soccer on stadiums and how this technology will be used in all stadiums. The cost a lot of the 12 cameras is $750,000 per clubs (Blatter asks for patience, 2009). An Article Snatch explains that FIFA might pay $750,000 per club, and there are thousands of clubs in the entire world. Also, if they provided this technology for the six stadiums for each country, and move this technology for each game plays there. It will be very expensive.
On the other hand, if the soccer not fair that might be a fight between people in soccer, between fans or player that lead to damage in the health or the stadium. Also, the technology will only use in the famous competition in the world such as ERU Cup and World cup. Which mean it will not be used in all stadiums around the world. According to Alpha soccer, the stadium of the following teams Manchester United, Real Madrid, Juventus, Bayern Munich and Liverpool are the most important in Europe. Overall, goal-line technology would be costly, but it would be used in particular places and stadiums could be updated progressively. Also, the debate happen in the FIFA they discussed about goal line technology in soccer, is testing this technology and sees how it will work in the stadiums preparing for World Cup 2014. Testing the technology is significant for World Cup 2014 to make sure this technology work well without any mistakes. FIFA explains that FIFA would test the goal-line technology and if it works well, FIFA will use it in the next World Cup 2014 and will start to give referees some lessons to teach them how to use it. However, if this technology doesn't work well, they will use referees as usual without any changes (FIFA to test technology this year, 2010)
In conclusion, there are some people who do not want to include technology in the game. Both the supporters and the opponents have their reasons for using technology or not. For the supporters, they think that using technology will increase the fairness. On the other hand, the opponents think that the technology will destroy the emotions, and the excitement from the fans. Also, it will make the game slow pace by stopping and starting the game after each decision. Regardless, both sides have good intentions for the game. Supporters and opponents want the game to continue to be the most popular sport in the world.
Reference
Dellon,M (2010). Why are we so afraid of technology 'ruining' soccer? It's not like technology hasn't been all over the sport since its inception. Retrieved on from http://techcrunch.com/
Kelso, P. (2010 Jun 27). England V Germany: Fifa want better refereeing not goal line technology. Telegraph. Retrieved from www.telegraph.co.uk
Kartsev, A. (2003), http://dlib.eastview.com/browse/doc/4813870
Lewis, M. (2010, July 9). South African World Cup boss Danny Jordaan appointed to FIFA inspection team for 2018, 2022 bidders. nydailynews. Retrieved from www.nydailynews.com.
Leech, M (2010). Rex features. Retrieved on 19/10/2011 from http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/onepercent/201
Marcus, J. (2010, June 29). FIFA President Apologizes From Errors. Nytimes. Retrieved from www.nytimes.com
Molinaro, J, F. (2010, June 27). World Cup post-game: Germany 4, England 1. CBC News. Retrieved from www.cbc.ca.com
New Scientist (2011 March 4). Will goal-line technology bring justice to soccer? Retrieved on 19/10/2011 from http://www.newscientist.com
No author. (2010). Football's lawmakers reject goal-line technology. BBC. http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/8553463.stm
No Author, (2010, July 5). Frank Lampard's shot too 'fast' to see properly, claims bungling linesman from England's defeat to Germany. Daily mail. Retrieved from www.dailymail.co.uk
No author. (2011, Jan 26). Sevilla Coach Gregorio Manzano: Luis Fabiano's Shot Crossed The Goal-Line. Goal. Retrieved from www.goal.com
No author, (2011, May 14). Blatter asks for patience. Soccernet. Retrieved from www.soccernet.espn.go.com
Reuters, (2011 May 2) Soccer Break Monday - Goal line technology. Again! Retrieved from http://www.reuters.com/soccer/2011
The inquisitor, (2010 June 28). Forget About Video Technology in Soccer. Retrieved
19/10/2011 from http://www.inquisitr.com
Worrall, G. (2011). Should Technology Be Used In Football. a football/soccer website that reports on all the latest transfer rumours and transfer news from around the World. Retrieved from www.articlesnatch.com
No author.(2011).FIFA to test technology this year. Eurosport. http://asia.eurosport.com/football/world-cup/2010/goal-line-technology-plan_sto2775505/story.shtml
" UEFA champions league" alpha occer.net. Alpha Soccer, 2009. Web May 2 2011
1
Ghuloum
