In this modern world, people have many ways to communicate. Internet is the most popular way to communicate. People use networks and social websites to connect with their friends and relatives every day. Networks make people communicate easily. Everywhere in the world, people can find that people use computer to do their job, play games and communicate with other people. Networks become a part of our life, some famous social websites and soft wares are known by everyone, such as Facebook and MSN. But different people have different opinion about networks, on side, the supporter consider that networks show us many information and resources, make people buy something convenient and connect with friends and relatives easily. The other side, the protester argues that networks make people are lack of face to face communicate skills, teenagers will be obsessed with network games. About this issue, many scientists research this problem; they believe although networks do have some drawbacks, the benefits of networks are more than disadvantages for people.
For many people know that, there are some people use networks to trick children and someone who want buy something on the Internet. Going with the Internet appear to human, some people want to use this new technology to commit a crime. In these years, many children are tricked by Internet chat room. Parents are worried about their children's safety and ask them do not use the computer. According to Dose the Internet Benefit Society? "Unfortunately, the Internet can also be used by the unscrupulous to prey upon the unsuspecting in violent ways. Pedophiles lie in wait in children's or teens' chat rooms, sometimes luring them to meet in person. Once a child has taken the bait, he or she is often kidnapped, abused, or raped." This resource tells people that children are attacked by someone through the Internet. For these crimes, the criminal's purpose is money. They do not want to work hard to make money, so they use the Internet to commit a crime in order to make money.
Also, the protesters think that use the Internet to communicate will make people lose the skill of face to face communication. People think that, the relationships around people are based on face to face communication. Networking communication cannot show people's emotion. Relationship is good or bad that depend on emotion. The famous educator, Karen Hollowell considers, "With this increased access to knowledge also comes a probable loss of communication skills and interactive abilities between students and teacher, and students to peers. These skills are not as necessary in a classroom of computers, where individuality is a component of learning and is encouraged. Aside from learning, conflict resolution and socialization used to be two prominent reasons children came to school. The emphasis now has shifted away from these areas." Student use Internet to learn a lot of knowledge, but at same time they lose the skill of face to face communication. Because they use computer to communicate, they do not speak lots of word, just type on the computer and then send to teachers. Teachers can know what they want to know and give students answer. In is situation for a long time, students will lose their speaking skills and even they may be afraid of face to face communicate with people.
Then the protesters say that people like using the networks to make friends all over the world or all over their country. But these people are between a long distance. They cannot know if the give the information on the Internet is correct. The famous websites, such as Facebook and Myspace, also cannot prove their member's information is all correct and according to researchers many people's close friends on networking are regarded by people who face to face contact (Randersen, 2007). This idea shows that face to face communication is nearly always necessary to make a real close friendship. A real friendship is trustworthy between two people, if one side has some troubles and the other side can give a hand, no matter how hard the trouble is (Randerson, 2007). This friendship just can appear in face to face communication.
Networks are one thing that people can not leave. Most students use networks to find the resources what they study and they can learn some knowledge through the networks. Wikipedia is one of the most famous websites for students to research. Also, businessmen often use the networks to focus on financial market, they use networks to know the news about their company and others' company, they use networks to research some useful information that it can make money for them too. According to Small Business Are Tentative Steps toward Online Network (2009) "A recent study for Sage North America found that 65 percent of small businesses that used social networking sites said that they felt more comfortable doing so this year than they did last year and 51 percent said that they had acquired and retained customers because of it." This resource shows that the company that uses the networking for business is more comfortable than they do not. They just sit in the office, research the Internet and type some message that it can make money for them. This small company does not have regular customers like some big company. Sometimes and even the whole month they cannot sell one product. But now, they use the networking, many customers research the Internet may find their website and know their products. In this approach, they can sell more product than before. They also can use networks to find what product customers want most, they can produce this product to make money. For many businessmen, many documents need to do, but personal ability has a limit, they cannot have enough energy to remember too much information. According to The Rise of intant wireless networks
In contrast, communications devices in ad-hoc networks have to determine on their own the best means of delivering information. The individual instruments are limited in their computing power, memory and communication, so no single individual can gather or process all the information that would be known to the central computers of traditional wireless networks.
The network work will help them to solve this problem. Networks easy to remember many documents and never forget it. Individual instruments may be lost by some one, but use networks can save them forever, besides you delete it, it will be in you computer. It can reduce people's work.
People are not just use networks to learn something and focus on finacial market. They use networks to make a lot of money, and then they want to have a good life and travel. People also use networks for travel. Many people like traveling; some of them even want to go to some far away distant place for trip. They use networks to book air tickets and hotel. They also find some important information about that place, such some taboos. Consumers Using the Internet to Research Travel Continue to Outnumber Those Booking Online said
Among those using the Internet to make travel arrangements, the ability to book airfares online garnered the highest level of satisfaction, with 48 percent of customers claiming they are "extremely" satisfied. The ability to make car rental arrangements online also received high marks with nearly 42 percent of customers saying they are extremely satisfied.
This resource shows that people who use networks for travel satisfied the Internet. They believe networks make them have a great trip. Nearly half of all customers think that use networks for travel extremely satisfied. Using networks for travel do not just make a travel arrangement; they also find some information for some place. In some special place there are some taboos that should focus on. If you do not know, it may make your trip have lots of trouble.
At last, students always use networks to connect with their friends and relatives. Especially the international students, they leave their hometown and go to other country for study, if they have some time are free, they will connect with friends and parents. Depend on this situation, some social websites and soft wares become famous, such as Facebook and MSN. According to the Benefits of Facebook "Friends:" Social Capital and College Students' Use of Online Social Network Sites
Young adults moving to college need to create new networks at college. However, they often leave friends from high school with whom they may have established rich networks; completely abandoning these high school networks would mean a loss of social capital. To test the role of maintained high school relationships as weak, bridging ties, we adapted questions about general bridging relationships. In keeping with the thrust of our prior hypotheses about the role of Facebook and bridging social capital
The author think that classmates have a deep relationship between each other because they are both have class in the collage and live in the collage. They meet everyday, but if they graduate from the collage and go to work, they probably do not live in the same city or even work in the same company. They may not keep their relationship. In this time, they need a way to keep their relationships that are networks. The Facebook do this job is better than other websites. Although the protester think that Facebook shows the people's personal information to other people, the Facebook make people keep the relationship of long distant friends and classmates.
There are both some benefits and disadvantages about networks. But nothing is perfect; it must have advantages and disadvantages. Although someone use networks to trick children and make money, most people use networks for business. Parents give the computer to their children that mean to ask them to use network to study, not chat online for a long time. If children always use computer chat online, it is children's faults; their parents should pay more attention to their children. There are millions of social websites in the networks; children and teenagers can use Google to find which websites is good for them or what they want to look, parents can use some software to research which website their children look, it can helps parents protect their children. (Kim, Jeong, Lee, 2009) For the lack of face to face communicate skills, people should live in society, many people are around them, they have enough chance to face to face communicate, if they do not to communicate with other people, it means they do not want to communicate, not be afraid of communicating. (Ellison, Stenfield & Lampe) Networks make low status feel life is better, rich people can make poor friends and they can find same interesting by communicating online. (Ellison, Stenfield & Lampe) This kind of communication is hard happened in real life but easy happen online. Because people hard to know who type message to you. Also, people can though networking video see who is chatting with you, and many people use the Internet find their wife or husband. This is true. So on the Internet also can make a real relationship.
Networks are really having some disadvantages for children and some people, but for the most of people, networks give them a lot of benefits that are much more than disadvantages. People cannot see a part of the networks and consider networks are good or bad. People should compare different parts of how to use the networks. For example, the research say that someone will give the wrong information on the Fcebook, people cannot make a real friendship, but most of people give the correct information and people can use Facebok connect with their company and product, they can use Facebook to make money, and of course people can find a job through Fcebook. These benefits are more than disadvantages. People should use networks because there are so many different kinds of benefits. In some time, people have a heavy pressure in daily work; networks can make them feel comfortable in home life. It sounds that benefits are more important than disadvantages for people's life.
Reference
1. Consumers Using the Internet to Research Travel Continue to Outnumber Those Booking Online. (n.d.). The Conference Board - Trusted Insights for Business Worldwide. http://www.conference-board.org/utilities/press Detail.cfm?press_ID=3165
2. Ellison, N., Stenfield, C., & Lampe, C. (n.d.). The Benefits of Facebook "Friends:" Social Capital and College Students' Use of Online Social Network Sites. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communicatio.
3. The Rise of intant wirtress networks, Scientific American: Apr 2010
4. Kim, W., Jeong, O., & Lee, S. (n.d.). On social Web sites, 8 July 2009
5. M. Aspan, after stumbling, Facebook finds a working eraser, The New York Times, February 18, 2008
6. Open Social: Google's New Social Networking Platform - What Is It And Why It Matters. (n.d.). Professional Online Publishing: New Media Trends, Communication Skills, Online Marketing - Robin Good's Master New Media. http://www.masternewmedia.org/social_networking/social-networking-platforms/Open-Social-Google-social-networking-platform-what-is-it-20071102.htm
7. Hollowell.K,(2008), Advantages and Disadvantages of Technology in Education
8. Wise To Social Issues Digest The Gale Group, Inc. All rights reserved. (2007), Dose the Internet Benefit Society?
9. Randerson J.(10 Setember 2007) Social networking sites don't deepen friendships
10. Meece M. (June 3 2009) Small Businesses Are Taking Tentative Steps Toward Online Networkin.
