China Internet Censorship
With the rapid development of the Chinese Internet, plenty of people are participating in social network groups. It is no doubt that the Internet has an impact on people's life. In addition, the Internet has became a booming phenomenon. However, with such exponential growth of the Internet users, the censorship of Chinese Internet is enhancing. It is also becoming a hot issue in our contemporary society. According to Google Dictionary, censorship means "The practice of officially examining books, movies, etc, and suppressing unacceptable parts." More and more people concentrate on the issue of that whether the government should censor the Internet or not. In fact, among the young people, there are two sides that hold distinct views, I support that the government should not censor the Internet.
On the one hand, many people claim that the government should not censor the Internet. In fact, the demerits of Chinese Internet censorship overweigh its merits. Some supporting reasons are displayed as well, which include entertainment factor, and outside resources, and some suggestions from U.S. Policy. Personally speaking the entertainment factor is the largest problem that people concentrate on. People are prohibited to go through some foreign websites, such as Facebook and Youtube. The reason why people can not go through those websites is that they shed some negative lights on Chinese society. For example, the videos and criticism about the Tiananmen demonstration where a great number of students, workers and citizens demonstrated on the Tiananmen Square and fought for their freedom(Picture). It has already been censored by the government. Unfortunately, demonstration was suppressed by forcing of the government, to tell the truth, it reflects the inverses of society in that period of time. Most foreigners knew this phenomenon and pointed out to the world. Nonetheless, the Chinese government laid itself out to conceal the truth of facts. One of the main measures is to filter the information about any sources of this history. Another happening is called the "Fa Lun Gong event," some people who believe in an illegal religion Fa Lun Gong, went to the street and committed suicide.
Those people who believe in Fa Lun Gong trust their god, they may believe only when they died so that they could live in a happy life, go to heaven suicide and do not need to suffer in society. The government thinks the religion is irregular and should be forbidden, so the government took the same measures to censor this information as it did to Tiananman demonstration. Those kinds of information and sources have been censored by Chinese government, because the historical events can not advance the society, conversely, it could not promote the development of the contemporary situation. If most Chinese people knew that, the society of China would perhaps be chaotic. However, with restriction view some entertainment websites, in such situation, people may lose chances to meet new friends from other countries. In addition, they could not get amusement from Youtube. Some Chinese people "turn over the wall" which means they use anti-web-blocking software to break down the control area of the government so that they can go through some prohibited websites. In my opinion, it is reasonable, people have right to gain what they want, it reveals that they want to get sources from outside attitude. The more concealment of the government, the more people want to know the truth.
Then, Chinese people can not get a few resources about the historical information and feedback from the outside world. The government censors the BBC, and Voice of America in order to suppress outside views (Censorship of the Content). It is a fact that Chinese people just live in their own world, they have few opportunities to connect with the outside world. For example, much of the information and videos about Fa Lun Gong which is an illegal religion in China and the Tiananmen demonstrations are shown on foreign websites. The dissidents think that they should be taught about historical issues. When people search for sensitive topics on the Internet, often the search is blank because of the censorship. It is one of the reasons that Google withdrew from the China mainland, Google wants a freedom of searching space, it can not be achieved in China. From my perspective, after many years, people have right to know the historical problems, they have necessity to know, and they need to learn lessons from history.
As figure 1 shows to us all, it is clear that there is proportion of top sites blocked. For instance, the hot issues of Tibet, Taiwan and equality, even the topic about revolution in China, those are filtered by the legislations. The position to treat domestic problem of China is different from other countries. It is no doubt that Chinese government is begging the questions of sensitive issues. Here are some detailed examples: the topic contradicts the principles defined in the constitution [of PRC], endangers national security, discloses States secrets, subverts the government, destroys the unity of the country, especially the damages the honor and the interests of the States (Censorship of the Content). We may understand the points are precisely right, however, the action is definitely wrong.
The government stated that the purpose of those kinds of actions is for protecting Chinese people and avoiding getting confused information. However, a great number of people want to get the truth of the facts, they may hold it is one of the ways to protect themselves. Because of Chinese Internet censorship, many sources are not permitted to citizens. As long as they know the historical information, and the Chinese government acknowledge it, we may think about how to fix it in appropriate methods so that it can accelerate the development of the whole society.
Another survey is about mainland China's view on the Internet censorship (survey), 1702 Internet users are answered 42 questions. It reveals that 79.2% of Chinese citizens definitely disagree with Chinese government's censors and filters the Internet. 69.8% percent use the anti-web-blocking software to see some foreign websites which are prohibited by the Chinese government. It's no doubt that the survey stands on the con-censorship side, to some extent, it proves thoughts of most Chinese people and provides the credibility to the society. Therefore, it may persuade Chinese people to believe it. From such kind of information, most Chinese people believe that the Internet should not be censored by legislatures.
The U. S has suggested ways to deal with Chinese censorship (Issues for U.S. Policy):
* Enacting legal prohibitions on U.S. companies that would aid PRC Government censorship efforts;
* Creating U.S. governmental institutions for promoting global Internet freedom;
* Funding the development of counter-censorship technologies;
In fact, those suggestions are beneficial from the position of U.S. People could not claim that they agree with all of them, however, they do believe most of them. From my point of view, I do believe the second propose, if the suggestion can be achieved on some day, the action of U.S legislation is not only attaining the benefits of other countries, but also safeguard the freedom of the whole Internet system. To some extent, those suggestions proves that other countries hope Chinese government do not censor the Internet and block some websites which are probably essential to Chinese society and people.
On the other hand, a few people think the government should censor the Internet. They may have their reasons. Population and policy issues are mentioned here. In the first place, as is known to us all, China has a large population, people have right to public issues freely, however, some people may put some drawbacks of Chinese society, it would be chaotic. We could not go against this point totally, nevertheless, those drawbacks, in fact, prove that our government and society do need to improve so that it will build a positive feedback to citizens. The dissidents argue that policy is another important issue, regulation of Chinese Internet is a part of policy, it reveals the responsibility of the government. We could not think it is not reasonable, however, for the government to show respect to netizens.
Generally speaking, if the government do not censor the Internet, some solutions could be used to treat this phenomenon. In the first place, people should approach the historical problem in a rational way. Everyone could make mistakes, although it may sacrifice many people's lives, because people fought for their freedom and were forced by the government, as time goes by, something can be forgiven, something can not, it belongs the former one. We do hope those people's lives who are worthy of being sacrificed. If the government exposes the truth of the facts and let more people know them, it should be forgiven. However, Chinese people ought to treat historical issues in the correct way. Secondly, all Internet users have a duty to establish a harmonious environment of the Internet. Creating a wholesome Internet space does not only mean to accept beneficial information, it also includes the behavior of people who browse the sources, netizens should restrain themselves when they hear the negative news about China from other countries.
In conclusion, it is hard to judge whether the government should censor and filter the information on the internet or not. From my perspective, I do support that the government should not censor and filter the Internet, the action of censorship by the government may disturb the right to learn the truth of Chinese people. Although both sides have their supporting reasons, on the background of the whole society and world, other countries also believe it's not beneficial to develop the economy of China. What people can do is using the Internet reasonably, logically and show responsibility to the government policy.
