Advantages and Disadvantages of Automobiles on Society and the World
The automobile ranks among the greatest inventions that have played a significant role in boosting modern societal development. Conventional cars have over time provided an unparalleled convenience in the daily life of the larger population. Many people desire to own cars because this considerably enhances their standards of living. Comparable to other forms of transport, the car is fairly flexible for users to gain more freedom, happiness and recreation where ordinary transport is inaccessible (Smith, 1975). Furthermore, cars make shopping in distant malls straightforward, assists people reach their places of work, and students get to school. Yet exhaust gases emitted from cars are exceedingly harmful to the environment and human health. Air pollution is now a serious issue in most urban centers, amid the escalating gasoline prices. Society can simply not afford to take no notice of the harm resulting from the internal combustion engine (Pion, 2006). Notwithstanding cars are convenient, the damage they do to the environment is a problem that must be solved. Perhaps the most practical solution is to evolve more advanced hybrid cars and research alternative types of fuel.
There is no doubt that the precious conventional car, often used by people gives off hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide. Those emissions contain myriad toxic chemical materials that are prone to be absorbed by rain water, acidifying the limited arable farms resulting in the decline of gain yield. Additionally, the inhalation of these polluted gases by human beings formulates them vulnerable to suffer from fatal illness such as lung cancer (Fisher, 2009). Gasoline-powered cars also contribute to air pollution and urban smog. People require their cars; nevertheless, the need to eliminate from pollution is supreme because emissions threaten the extremely life without which the car is rendered useless. The Scientific Abstracts (2003) asserts that very few citizens would support the concept of giving up on automobiles altogether. Hence all efforts are channeled in having the power and convenience of cars without the cost and pollution associated with burning gasoline and other fossil fuels. Revolutionary hybrid car models or 'green' cars are designed to be powered by either a combination of electricity and gasoline, electricity, or hydrogen fuel.
The most realistic solution in reducing pollution while at the same time keeping our vehicles is by use of emission free hybrid cars. This vehicles use alternative fuels that are extremely clean and theses substitutes are cleaner than gasoline or even diesel, which would facilitate to eliminate from the pollution that influence the environment (Arnold, 2007). It is an indisputable fact that any type of fossil fuel has restricted supplies and contributes to greenhouse gas emissions. Burning crank case fuel and combusted oil produces hydrocarbons, whilst the heat coming form the engine generates nitrogen oxides attributed to global warming (Onursal, 2002). Therefore, the use of the hybrid cars that run on electric motor and combustion engines helps reduce pollution danger.
Hybrid vehicles have become popular due to their environmental, technical, economical, and social advantages. The most fashionable concept of hybrid vehicles utilizes a combination of electricity as the cleanest source of power available, and the conventional combustion engine. The Union of Concerned Scientists (2010 asserts that there exist two hybrid car types today; one run by electric energy and another by hydrogen fuel cell. Electric hybrids use an electric motor as the substitute source of power, while hydrogen hybrids get the hydrogen element from water, which then is added to the automobile's fuel air mixture.
The classic hybrid vehicle is composed of an electric motor, a traditional combustion petrol engine, a generator, a fuel tank and battery for energy storage as shown in fig 1(Physorg.com, 2006). The improved energy economy of hybrid cars is accomplished partially due to the stop-start technology that is installed therein. A hybrid automobile reduces hazardous emissions by approximately thirty percent over the most fuel efficient models of internal combustion engines.
Fig 1: Diagram of a hybrid car modified from physorg.com
Hybrids are touted to fix some of the problems posed by electric motor and gasoline engine by balancing the optimal use of gasoline and electric power. Electrical energy is employed while starting up the car and at low range speeds. The gasoline engine takes over the transmission when speed is increased. Hybrids have an aerodynamic blueprint, lighter body material and smoother tyres which aid better energy consumption. Furthermore, the outstanding technological advantage of hybrids is its regenerative braking (Physorg.com, 2006). Unlike conventional cars where power is wasted while braking, hybrids re-channel this lost energy to charge the electrical battery. This technology makes it pointless to have a separate resource for battery charging. The dual energy source in hybrid cars and their supplementary functioning mode eventually results in decreased emissions and better mileage. The performance of hybrid vehicles is at per with ordinary gas-powered vehicles, thanks to the constantly improving technology. Hybrids assist lessen the dependency on fossil fuel which affects pump prices directly. But they also have their share of faults drawbacks.
Although hybrids are on demand, their cost is about $3,000 more than their conventional models. Anderson & Anderson (2010) maintain that the upshot is credited to the complex battery pack and the electric motor. Hybrid cars tend to accelerate slowly compared to conventional vehicles. Still, some vehicle owners could find this to be beneficial because it affords drivers better control of the steering. The pricey battery pack requires replacement after a certain mileage, which could be expensive for frequent voyagers. Nonetheless, batteries are seldom replaced they are designed to last for the lifetime of the hybrid car. But batteries may also fail to deliver in cold conditions; hence the fuel may not be optimally saved in such environments. Yet, there are other weaknesses related to 'green cars' that merit some contemplation.
Car bodies are constructed from light-weight materials to enhance high speed and maintain a reasonable size. The small size and light weight of hybrids make them susceptible to severe harm in case of an accident (Anderson & Anderson, 2010). The newness and costly nature of the hybrid technology system, means that there is limited availability of cars, spare parts and skilled mechanics in most countries. Some hybrids, such as the Prius often necessitate producer servicing due to the lack of basic equipment in most garages. However, this issue could over time be addressed because of the growing number of people patronizing hybrids, a move that will eventually prompt manufacturers to build up more units (Physorg.com). Hybrids are friendly to the environment and assist in saving fuel; however, pollution would be eradicated completely if hybrid cars operated solely on the electric power.
"Electric cars are powered by an electric motor that derived energy from on-board battery that needs to be recharged occasionally" (Coppin, 2008). The gasoline tank and engine are replaced by controllers; besides the electric motor and battery. The battery can possibly be recharged by use of an alternating or direct current from standard electrical channels. Repeated car battery replacement is not needed, and can only be done once in four years. In fact electric cars are not at all ultramodern. They have been in existence since 19th century; still, internal combustion engines continue to reign in the 21st century (Webb, 2004). The use of an electric car has not been popular because the battery, which is the heart of the vehicle, was until recently not produced in a reliable manner. Manufacturing of mass-producible batteries in the near future could make electric-powered cars to compete gasoline or diesel vehicles. This makes electric cars a visible solution to environmental pollution when they start being rolled off by major automobile manufacturers. But as with every new technology and most inventions, electric cars have their pros and cons.
The major advantage of solely electric hybrids is that they are zero-emission automobiles, no toxic gases are emitted from their tailpipes. Nonetheless, the electricity employed to power these automobiles is largely a product of energy plants that burn fossil fuels. Although fossil fuels are still utilized here, it is allegedly better and safer to expel emissions at the plant than is the case for countless tailpipes in the urban centers (Arnold, 2007). Electric cars are also more efficient since their energy can be harnessed from various electricity sources available, both renewable and non-renewable. These cars also are devoid of noise pollution as they operate in a very quiet manner. The U.S. government offers numerous financial incentives to people who buy electric cars, which maybe advantageous to the owner. Ultimately, research has shown that the use of electric cars would lower toxic emissions in our environment by more than half. Despite all the merits, the electric vehicle still has its drawbacks.
Hybrid cars that exclusively depend on the electric motor have not gained popularity due to their rather impractical and expensive nature. The absence of modern battery technology limits the distance covered by electric vehicles before the battery fails completely. A costly infrastructure of recharging stations needs to be constructed and the overheads may be shouldered by the consumer in form of high electricity prices (Wheeler, 2007). These cars cannot accelerate or cruise enough to compete with gasoline gas, and the battery can be drained further when accessories like radios and conditioning are installed and working. Electric cars are also not entirely "emission-free" in cases where the source of electricity is an oil- or coal-powered generator, as this only transfers tailpipe emissions to the power plant.
In addition, the pollution composition becomes more complicated due to increased amount of the harmful sulphur dioxide (Pupkevicius, 2009). Since electric vehicles are often created through the replacement of the gasoline engine and fuel tank of conventional cars with batteries, electric motors, controllers and chargers, the resulting car is heavier and less efficient. The price of constructing electric cars is currently high due to the lack of mass production. The economies of scale then tilt in favor of conventional gasoline automobiles. This disadvantage is vanishing in the wake of mounting production of hybrid cars that function on solar energy.
Solar hybrids are simply electric automobiles that derive part of their power from the sun. As the sun disappears by night or during extremely cloudy days, solar vehicles use their alternative power source, the battery. The car could move and charge its battery when the sun is out, and in the absence of solar, utilize the saved battery energy (Clay, 2008). Hence solar cars are advantageous due to their less reliance on city power as compared to purely electric cars. They also have a higher range than battery-powers cars in order to have ability to charge and run for long using the sun. However, because they rely on batteries in the absence of the sun, solar cars share in the downsides of their electric counterparts. These are namely: heavy weight, mere size and restricted range associated with the battery power. Such disadvantages have led to the invention of more practical and consistent hybrid cars as a solution to environmental pollution using alternative fuel types.
After analyzing and weighing the practicability of hybrid cars and their derivatives, the need to invent an ultimate alternative hybrid model that is reliable and environmentally friendly lingers on. The finest pollution-free option to batteries even as clean electric motors are still used is a hybrid car that uses hydrogen fuel. Hydrogen powered fuel cells hold massive potential while a foundation of energy for the future car models. They are also devoid of battery restraints. Hydrogen is not burned in a fuel cell, but is rather consumed through a chemical reaction that is free from pollution. The fuel cell works plainly by chemical combination of oxygen and hydrogen to create electrical energy, waste heat, water, and not anything as well (Wheeler, 2007). Besides, hydrogen in the universe is the maximum abundant element, and constitutes about ninety percent of whole atoms. "Hydrogen is found in fossil fuels" (which are essentially carbon and hydrogen compounds), water and in all animals and plants. So hydrogen fuel cell qualifies as a better replacement for nonrenewable, limited and toxic gasoline.
Hydrogen can be sourced from water through electrolysis process, or the use of electricity to split water molecules. But then the external consequences of obtaining electricity from power plants cannot be downplayed. Most contemporary electricity producing power plants operate on carbon-based fuels, and hence generate emissions. Nevertheless, Wheeler (2007) states that there is also immense potential in various regions to get electricity from water-powered generators. This can eventually make hybrid vehicles powered by hydrogen strictly emission free. In addition, the hydrogen fuel cell has an efficiency of more than fifty percent, in terms of electrical power delivered to the motor from hydrogen (Clay, 2008). This maximum efficiency is far greater than that of internal combustion engines, where most energy is missing through friction and waste heat prior to even pushing the pistons down.
The Electric cars are powered by an electric motor that derived energy from on-board battery that needs to be renewed occasionally of hydrogen powered hybrids is restricted not by batteries; however, the capacity of the fuel storage tan (Coppin, 2008). Current advancements in the technology of hydrogen storage have designed "carbon-adsorption" systems, which are basically pressurized and refrigerated tanks that have the ability to hold vast hydrogen quantities. The process greatly improves when temperatures decrease, and the tank can easily become the alternative storage device as research improves and developments continue. Furthermore, even if no progress is reached in the future, the ambit of crossbred cars powered by hydrogen fuel cell is analogous to that of gas-powered vehicles (Wheeler, 2007). However, there are concerns that have been raised with regard to the safety of using hydrogen. Good reason dictates that hydrogen being a fuel is thus flammable. Therefore, the hydrogen combustion properties warrant similar caution given to any form of fuel. Lucky enough, hydrogen is not for the most part a dangerous fuel. If hydrogen spills or leaks, it evaporates and disperses at a faster rate than gasoline, thus the danger of explosion is minimized. Finally, hydrogen hazards may be different but not superior to those of traditional fuels.
The best substitute to fossil fuel-powered vehicles is the advanced hybrid car. There are several reasons that favor this option, and the first one is that they are entirely emission free if water is used as the principal source of electricity and hydrogen. Clay (2008) asserts that such sources of energy are renewable from the abundant natural water reservoirs. Hybrid cars that use hydrogen fuel are friendly with cold conditions, besides the fuel cells being lightweight and compact. These cars are by far efficient compared to gas-powered vehicles, and possess implausible mile ranges. The current tests and use of hydrogen attests to its safety claims, amid the quick refueling of the tanks. The issue of expensive infrastructure and clean fuel (electricity/hydrogen) extraction technology should not deter the adoption of hybrid cars powered by alternative sources of energy.
The ever-increasing number of vehicles renders the society at the risk of emissions that are basically related to global warming. Oil is nonrenewable and its declining levels pose a major drawback to conventional car technology. Traditional gasoline powered cars have become costly to operate due to the escalating fuel prices, wars, health bills, and ultimately environmental pollution. The drawbacks of the conventional model have triggered the motor industry to make advantageous models. The most practical solution is to develop more advanced hybrid cars that utilize other types of energy, such as electricity and hydrogen and solar. This energy sources are allegedly perfect fuels, with an inexhaustible major reserve on earth in the form of water and the sun. Rather than being intrusive, the use of this alternative fuels is attuned with nature, and can never deplete. Otherwise, if the pollution caused by the conventional cars is not checked, global warming will increase due to greenhouse gas emissions and the environment will be damaged beyond repair. People's health will be at an all-time brink, and humanity will eventually perish. The advanced hybrid car remains to be the most feasible solution to this menace.
