Smoking Ban
Smoking bans are public policies, including occupational safety and health
instruction, which prohibit smoking in workplaces and other public places. There are
many effects of secondhand smoke, such as an increased risk of heart disease, cancer,
and other diseases. The ongoing argument about the topic is that the non-smokers
request from the government to prevent smoking in public places. On the other hand,
smokers told the government it is their rights to smoke in public and they should
designate smoking areas, and non-smoking areas.
The complexity of the issue is that it has two sides and each of the side is
convinced that they are right. Smokers are told that it is a free country and we can
make two areas, one for smokers and one for non-smokers. The non-smokers think
that is one of their rights to not be exposed to secondhand smoke. As a result, it has
two sides that argue about smoking bans in public places and each of them have to
convince the people that they are right. This issue is important because of many
reasons. The most important one is the affect of the people's health who are non-
smokers or children. The reason that I choose my topic, is that smoking bans have
become a global issue which all the government over the world concern about it. It
matters to my readers because of two reasons, first, it is consider valuable
information for both sides smokers and non-smokers, second, it gives you steps how
to avoid secondhand smoking and how to quit from smoking. Smoking bans are
important for not only the health of smokers but also non-smokers.
''Society accepts that adults can decide to harm themselves, as long as they do not
harm others''(George,2010, p.1). Non-smokers if they don't want to smoke passively,
they don't have to go to places where smoking is allowed. So, there is no reason to
ban smoking in public places.
Sometimes, it is right that adults can decide to harm themselves, as long as they
do not harm others. But if they smoke in public places how they will not harm others
that's the (first point). Non-smokers if they don't want to smoke passively, they don't
have to go to places where smoking is allowed. Why they forced the non-smokers to
a specific places to go for it. For example, if a man wants to go out with his family to
a restaurant and enjoy with them, why he should harm his family by secondhand
smoke, or go to a special restaurant where it doesn't allowed smoking (second
point).
Some people argue that if a lot of people want to go to non-smoking bars,
Companies will make for them non-smoking bars (George, 2010). If companies
doesn't make non-smoking bars, it means that few people have requested from the
companies that they want them.
People who work in places where smoking is allowed such as bars didn't choose to
work there (George, 2010). It was the only option for them. Further, sometimes there
are no jobs available. All over the world, safety standards are the most important
things. Even, if the workers agree to be exposed to danger, the companies have safety
regulations to keep the workers safe. In the bar, when they ban smoking, it is the
same as the safety precautions in a mine. In any case, workers should not work in
dangerous conditions such as mining and army. People agree that working in this
place is better than not having a job at all, but it is risky for them to work in a bar
because of the secondhand smoke.
It has also been argued that it is legal to smoke tobacco, so governments have no
right to make people stop or quit from smoking (George, 2010). Smokers pay
high taxes for tobacco for their own healthcare. In any situation, smokers who are
addicted to nicotine it is hard to give up for them because they are already addicted to
nicotine.
Additionally, a smoking ban in public places will motivate smokers to smoke less
or give up (George, 2010). If smoking is banned in public places, it will not be like a
habit. Instead, smokers would be embarrassing if they are in public places. For
example, if someone in a restaurants with his wife or his friend it is embarrassing to
go out just for smoking. It will be also not good for him to smoke in cold/wet
weather. In most countries, governments pay all or almost the cost of treating
smokers by built clinic for smokers and offering medicine for them. This means
government can discourage smoking in public places. ''A ban would encourage
smokers to smoke less or give up.'' (George, 2010, p. 1)
Another reason some people disagree is that a smoking ban in public places will
make people smoke more at home (George, 2010). This action will affect other
people in their house, especially children. This is essential issue, since children are
not big enough to choose smoking passively.
For example, secondhand smoke also endangers children and this is another reason
cited for banning smoking (Bozza,2011). Every day, more than 15 million children
breathe in secondhand smoke at home. Even though adults can be harmed by
secondhand smoke too, it can be more dangerous for babies and young children.
That is because their lungs breathe twice as much air as adults do. As a result, they
breathe twice as much secondhand smoke, which could affect their lungs and heart.
Specifically if children are exposed to secondhand smoke, they may develop
symptoms of asthma.
Moreover, a smoking ban in public places will let them smoke less at work
(George, 2010). With the time, this will lower the level of nicotine in their body
which makes them happy. It will reduce how many times they need to smoke. As
long as they smoke less at work as well they will smoke less at home.
It is true that some people take advantage of smoking ban but when smoking ban
in public places, many bars, pubs and clubs lose their revenue which lead them out of
business (George, 2010). This led us for more problems which smokers will not visit
bars, pubs and clubs. These places give the opportunity for people who doesn't have
good degree to work so that they can survive. For example, to get money for their
regular life pay rent for housing, eating and paying for their education. In California,
first, when they ban smoking in public places the revenue of the restaurants come
down 9% immediately(Stolzenberg, 2007). Then, after a few months their revenue
come normally as before. This average in 38 cities and restaurants, there are still
business losing. Because of many reasons, the most important one is that before the
ban in public places they have more customers who are smoking, now they lost the
customers who are smoking in the public places. On the other hand, it is more
important to concentrate about people's health than to protect business people
(George, 2010). Pubs and clubs they should used to get their revenue from other
things. For instance, to attract people by advertising in the television to come for their
foods. So that they can depend on the food for their revenue.
When smoking bans are enforced, they are successful and people often appreciate
them (Viswanathan, 2011). Researchers made a questionnaire for two customers,
two workers, and one manager in each place. Results were that no customers or
workers were seen smoking in the indoor buildings, customers, workers, and
managers largely supported the ban.
The survey had been confirmed by the Ministry of Health after technical and moral
review (Viswanathan, 2011). The officers of the survey were volunteers (people who
works in the laboratory, expert in the smoking, and a fireman). Also, no workers, or
managers rejection to participate in the survey.
It has been argued that adults who are smoking in New York State the percentage
of them were dropped because of many reasons (Hartocollis, 2011). In 2010, it was
only 14 percent of New York City adults that were smoking. It was the lowest level
since the city began tracking the smoking rate 200 years ago. There are many steps
that the governments do to have the result that people are smoking less than before.
First, in 2002, the city passed a law that banned smoking in bars, restaurants, hospital
entrances, and almost all workplaces. Second, in May, the city amended the law to
also ban smoking in public parks and on beaches to protect people from breathing
secondhand smoke. Finally, the government put high taxes in cigarettes that had also
been deterrent. In 2010, city and state amounted $ 6. 86 a pack, compared with $ 1. 58
in taxes in 2000. The average cost of the pack of cigarette in the city now is $ 11.20.
It seems the new youth generations are aware and might avoid a lot of diseases such
as lung cancer, heart disease, and other health problems related to smoking. ''Having
this new generation coming up with much lower smoking rates than you have ever
seen historically is what's really pulling down the rate, and of course that promises
great things for the future.'' (Hartocollis, 2011, p. 1). It is related to smoking ban in
public places. For example, if adults didn't smoke a lot, when they ban smoking in
public places this people will be with their sides so that they can support the ban in
public places. In addition, if not a lot of people smoking this will encourage people to
smoke less or give up because they will think that they are wrong because a lot of
people don't smoke.
There are many reasons that made the percentage of adults drop. First, the
adults become aware more than before because of many reasons, technology and the
modern life make them concern about their health and the way that they live. Second,
the government puts high taxes for the tobacco so that the people buy it less or avoid
it. Finally, nowadays, the parents affect the choice of their children by telling them
their opinion more and more, so that it can be one of the factors that make the adults
in stressful situation and from the stress they can quit from smoking.
Some people argue that secondhand smoke can cause health problems
(Bozza, 2001). For example, heart diseases, cancer, and other diseases. Secondhand
smoke is a mixture of the smoke that comes from burning of a cigarette. There are
more than 4,000 chemicals in a secondhand smoke. Therefore, more than 15 million
kids breathe in secondhand smoke and adults can be harmed by secondhand smoke
too.
Another reason some disagree with the idea is that there is a relationship between
secondhand tobacco smokes exposure and blood progress level in US children and
teenagers (Apostolou, 2012). Researchers analyzed data from 6830 participant's ages
3-19 years in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. In the same
way, blood lead levels were 14% and 24% higher in children who lived with one or
with two or more smokers, respectively, than they were in children living with no
smokers. The results, showed that secondhand smoke may contribute to increased
blood lead levels in US children. ''The longer we wait the more children will be
endangered'' (Stenquist, 2012. P.1).
Anytime someone smokes near other people, the secondhand smoke will harm
them. ''Secondhand smoke inside a car can be more harmful than rush-hour exhaust
fumes'' (Bozza, 2001, p. 1). It is true that some people approved of Maryland senate
passed a bill that would prohibit smoking in cars when transporting with a child
under 8 years old (Stenquist, 2012). It is one of many steps that protect children from
secondhand smoke. If the bill is approved by the House and enforced into the law,
Maryland would join a number of other states which ban smoking in vehicles when
children were inside. Studies shows that children's who are staying at home with
people who smoke in the same house were more likely to get sick.
Researchers argue that health beliefs related to secondhand smoke exposure and
accuracy of smoke-free policies in a college community (Williams, 2011).
Researchers did a survey based on students, employees, and community members.
Females probably recognize secondhand smoke risks and were more supportive of
smoke-free policies. Results for health education and smoke-free defense are
discussed.
Smoking bans are essential for the health of smokers and non-smokers. Opponents
of smoking ban have many reasons to not ban smoking in public places. They say it
is a free country so, everyone should have their own rights. One of those rights is
choosing to be a smoker. Their perspective is that the government should designate
smoking areas and non-smoking areas. However, the research shows that the non-
smokers care about their health and the health of their children. Since children are not
old enough to choose if they want to smoke passively or not, it does not make sense
as a solution for non-smokers. This is because when smokers light their cigarettes in
public places, the smoke will invade non-smoking areas because there is nothing to
prevent the smoke from moving to the non-smoking areas. Non-smokers perspective
is that they shouldn't be exposed to secondhand smoke. The government can't prevent
people from smoking but they have already banned smoking in public places and this
is positive for non-smokers rights.
figure 1. Impact of secondhand smoking
