In modern world, people living in this planet are becoming closer than ever before. Product and liquid capital that generate in a state will be transfer in the others. International trade and communication seems not uncommon anymore. This phenomenon affects the economic business and exerts a wide influence on society. To describe such a phenomenon, economist use the term "Globalization". Also, economist consider that the core sense of globalization is economic. "Academically, globalization is most closely associated with the term economic globalization: the integration of national economies into the international economy through trade, foreign direct investment, capital flows, migration, the spread of technology, and military presence" (Bhagwati, Jagdish).
Source: http://www.helium.com
With the concept of globalization appears and brings out effect on our world like that, a issue regarding it has been arise; is globalization good or bad? There are two viewpoint about the effect of globalization. One group, the anti-globalization, argue that globalization will cause unemployment and have bad affect on local market; the other group, the globalization supporters, attribute economic growth to globalization. As the picture above shows, the result of election regarding whether globalization is good or bad was almost a tie. It seem that globalization is not a simple matter. In my point of view, globalization is a unstoppable trend that have advantages exceeding its disadvantages.
Anti-globalization claim that globalization is creating firm closures and high unemployment rate. As history shows, firm closure's number is continued increasing while globalization is speeding up. One of the biggest disadvantages of globalization is outsourcing, while it provides jobs to a population in one country, takes away those jobs from another country, leaving many without opportunities. "A Zogby International poll conducted in August 2004 found that 71% of American voters believed that "outsourcing jobs overseas" hurt the economy while another 62% believed that the U.S. government should impose some legislative action against companies that transfer domestic jobs overseas, possibly in the form of increased taxes on companies that outsource" (Zogby).
Moreover, under the construction of globalization, unemployment is prevailing at very high rates, which cause constant fear of losing because of the competition is more intense than before. "During a period of globalization, some firms still perform better than others. Those high performing ones can often squeeze weaker performing ones out of the marketplace, causing firm closures" (Moffatt). Therefore, Huge firm closures have occur in worldwide, causing millions of worker lose their job. "1995 was the beginning of a period of exceptional growth. However, almost 500,000 firms closed shop. The year 2001 saw almost no growth in the economy, but we only had 14% more business closures than in 1995 and fewer businesses filed for bankruptcy in 2001 than 1995" (Moffatt).
As a result, competition enhance technologies improvement, saving labour cost while raising a higher unemployment rate. "Survival in the new global business market calls for improved productivity and increased competition. Due to the market becoming worldwide, companies in various industries have to upgrade their products and use technology skilfully in order to face increased competition" (Anthro). In fact, a large number of workers become unemployed, especially in manufacturing industry. "Due to increased globalization, lack of education, health care prices, and the automobile industry, the unemployment rate has risen to a steady 6.7% in Michigan alone" (Nadeem). It seems that globalize economic has indirectly contribute to the technological improvement, but on the other hand, it also spell disaster for workers who work for manufacture industry.
In addition, there are no doubt that some other side effects will also occur. Mike Collins, a economic journalist once said: "As manufacturing continues to decline, so does our ability to innovate. In the long term this means fewer well paid jobs, lower productivity, declining wages, declining living standards and low economic growth." The point being make is that chain reaction will happen to the world's economic while the trend of globalization is becoming stronger.
The anti-globalists also argue that globalization is not working for the majority of the world. The general complaint about globalization is that it has made the rich richer while making the non-rich poorer. It is wonderful for managers and investors, but hell on workers and nature. "During the most recent period of rapid growth in global trade and investment, 1960 to 1998, inequality worsened both internationally and within countries. The UN Development Program reports that the richest 20 percent of the world's population consume 86 percent of the world's resources while the poorest 80 percent consume just 14 percent" (Longworth). Polarization among global seems obvious and will keep on develop as the world's economic is becoming tighten. Apparently, the hard burden of easying such an intense situation will fall on those so-called multilateral organisations like the IMF, World Bank and World Trade Organization.
However, according to anti-global activists, the WTO is not a democratic institution, because their rules are written by and for corporations with inside access to the negotiations. "Citizen input by consumer, environmental, human rights and labor organizations is consistently ignored." (Della Porta). It truth that WTO cannot be fair to everyone especially when it comes to a country's sovereignty. "I don't remember electing them, so what gives them the right to say how countries run their own affairs? Isn't it obvious that these organisations only serve the interests of the US and to a lesser extent the other rich countries? Their only role is to peddle the neoliberal orthodoxy that only maximises the profits of multination" (Williamson). Since mutilation organization cannot make a difference about polarization between rich and poor under the force of globalization, the distribution of benefit has lost its balance.
The universal benefits can't be achieved with globalization because the rich are getting richer and poor are becoming poorer. Therefore, large protest against globalization was urged by anti-globalizations. For example, "at the end of November 1999, Seattle saw major governments meet at a WTO ministerial meeting to discuss various trading rules. Enormous public protests ensued. It resulted in a WTO failure to agree on many issues, without adopting any resolutions" (Shah).
Distribution of world GDP, 1989
Income
Richest 20%
82.7%
Second 20%
11.7%
Third 20%
2.3%
Fourth 20%
2.4%
Poorest 20%
0.2%
Source: United Nations Development Program. 1992 Human Development Report
Globalization did not help the world's poverty. Instead of being an unstoppable force for development, globalisation has make the world's economic become unbalance, which only deliver rich to few people. As the picture above shows, unrestricted free trade benefits those with more financial leverage at the expense of the poor. "Although global average per capita income rose strongly throughout the 20th century, the income gap between rich and poor countries has been widening for many decades" (Sutherlan). Evidences shows that globalization has not worked.
On the other side, supporters of globalization believe that Globalization's effects have been overwhelmingly good. On account of globalization, the trade fort's is being eliminated, by which company can produce at less cost and selling in a hihger demanding market. Hence, more money generated in the economy, bring prosperity to all.
Guided by unprecedented liberalization, world trade continues to expand faster than overall global economic output. "Emergence of worldwide production markets and broader access to a range of foreign products for consumers and companies. Particularly movement of material and goods between and within national boundaries. International trade in manufactured goods increased more than 100 times (from $95 billion to $12 trillion) in the 50 years since 1955. China's trade with Africa rose sevenfold during 2000-07 alone" (Fotopoulos). With free trade, the products are free to move between different countries, making consumer the true winner in globalization because they can buy the best products from the global free market.
Furthermore, as more money is poured in to developing countries, there is a greater chance for the people in those countries to economically succeed and increase their standard of living. The collaboration among the countries of the entire world has been made stronger with globalization, now countries can easily move to the markets at which they are better. "Developing countries are able to reap the benefits of current technology without undergoing many of the growing pains associated with development of these technologies" (Williamson). As a result, there are lower prices, more employment and a better standard of life in these developing nations.
Take China for example. Globalization significantly led to higher incomes is in China over the past several decades. "They have mastered the concept of globalization in their own way far from the Western norms. In an article by Dani Rodrik China has averaged almost 8 percent per annum per capita by opening up to the world economy. By taking part in globalization China has been able to fund modernization by selling its products on the world market" (Nadeem). What is more, in the 1990s alone, foreign investors have poured $1 trillion into developing Chinese economies. This trade and investment is raising living standards faster than many people could thought possible. From the picture below we can see that the purchasing power, or living standards in China have double every 10 years. These evidence prove that with a strategy most fit to a country, globalization can be achieved successfully.
In contrary to anti-globalization, the fact shows that globalization bring job opportunity and welfare to poor region, which crate a better living environment. "Liberals look at globalization as an efficient tool to eliminate penury and allow the poor people a firm foothold in the global economy. In two decades from 1981 to 2001, the number of people surviving on $1 or less per day decreased from 1. 5 billion to 1. 1 billion. Simultaneously, the world population also increased. Thus, the percentage of such people decreased from 40% to 20% in such developing countries" (Burande). Besides, by using a country's comparative advantage, or what they can produce at a lower opportunity cost than other countries, they can get all the benefits of trade. If every country has a comparative advantage that means that everyone can gain from trade. "There is remarkable evidence that globalization is helping countries expand and achieve higher incomes or a higher GDP. Research was conducted on national incomes around the world during the 1990s and results showed that the income of rich globalized countries increased by 2% each year. The results also show that poor, more globalized countries have a higher increase in income per year than poor, less globalized countries" (Burande). It's clear that global trade can stimulate a nation's economic according to the comparative advantage theory. Also, the third world country can take advantage from globalized economy rather than just being a victim in our globalize world.
Globalization is a slow process, but it is working. People who are anti-globalization, in my opinion, are merely fail to see the prosperity that globalization brings. Besides, a country closed to the rest of the world will not learn to better themselves, and continue to do things they way they have been doing. Here is an example. During the Qing dynasty, China became the world's largest economy. They also expanded their empire, gaining much more territory. However, when the country began to close itself off from the rest of the world, the country produced only 9% of the worlds gross domestic product in early 1900s, while she produced 33% in the early 1800s. Much of this is due to the fact that the industrial revolutions of Europe and America, events that the Chinese did not participate in, caused them to fall behind (China). As history shows, there will not be much room for improvements and new opportunities to countries that do participate in globalization.
In the end, even though globalization brings some bad effect to the world such as unemployment, it still doing good in the big picture. With the free trade, globalization creates a level playing field for all world economies. As globalization opens more opportunities, it will bring more diversity and thus creating world peace and prosperity and make the world a better place to live. To me, globalization is a unstoppable trend that have advantages exceeding its disadvantages. There fore, we should support it.
