Education is important element for children's life. Even though parents adopted different methods, their goals are same. Traditional school is a place which presents knowledge to children, and lots of children study and grow up there. While traditional schooling allows children within a big social group, they can from this same age group learn how to get along with other people, play, and date. Home schooling offer children to study at their own space, and home schooling is not only concerned about children's learning, but is also more concerned with the details of children's lives. In traditional school, teachers have important roles to educate children. They are professional at teaching students, and teachers know how to use correct and highly efficient ways to teach children; it may be easier for them to solve children's problems. On the other hand, a lot of parents start their children's education at birth and never stop teaching in home schooling. These parents teach their children how to speak, how to walk, how to eat, and how to play games. Home schooling gives children a lot of help in their childhood. As children grow up, parents begin to teach them some necessary rules in society, such as moral sense. Home schooling better helps young people reach their potential.
Traditional school has many benefits, but there are still has inescapable shortcomings. Teachers have a high education, and they can use more effective ways to teach children, but they cannot become close to children. Teachers just have some hours with children in a week, so time and space limit their interaction with children. They do not have more time to communicate with children and understand their ideas. Another reason is teachers do not have enough time to communicate with each child, so each child does not have individual attention. This is why the teacher has difficulty to fully understand the idea of each child (Chatterji, 2006).
In addition, "Teachers are mainly concerned with the teaching of academic subjects and have no time to instruct children on the more important aspects of life such as how to get along with others, except in an indirect manner" (Chatterji, 2006), and teachers often control children in traditional school. However, when children grow up, they do not want to always be bound with the teacher. Some reasons can influence school and classroom environment such as "teacher discipline and control practices, teacher-student relations, opportunities for student decision making, teachers' sense of efficacy, and between-classroom ability grouping on student motivation" (Eccles, Wigfield, Midgley, Reuman, Lver, and Feldlaufer, 1993). Sometimes these reasons can influence children's study motivation, and traditional school is a serious place, so some children feel more stress. The article "Learning in Nontraditional Environments: An International Perspective" shows the shortcomings of traditional schooling and the promise of learning in nontraditional environments in addressing student needs, teacher's role, and curriculum issues. This article points out that "a variety of situations and conditions lend themselves to nontraditional educational approaches or methods" (Ramsey & Rebecca, 2001). However, home schooling is better than traditional schooling from three aspects.
The first aspect is parents pay attention to their children in home schooling, and children can get a one on one education. In home schools, parents have more time to teach their children, and gave their children a lot of love and teach them basic knowledge. From birth, parents have to teach children how to walk, how to speak, what are good manners and bad manners. Parents have also witnessed their every step in development, from their children's gesture, behavior, and language. In other words, children's first awareness of life is influenced the most by their parents. Their change in both physical and mental development is all observed by their parents. Therefore, there is no doubt that parents understand their children more thoroughly than others. Once parents teach their children, they know how children feel, what children need and what teaching is best for children's study or life. In other words, each family member has valuable lessons to teach their children. Parents try to guide them through the most effective ways which shape children's character. For example, "children know the meaning of the 'yes' and 'no' in the childhood stage which is necessary for learning of society is rules. Children learn speaking while they imitate every word which they hear from parents, is considerable for their improving themselves" (Marilyn, 1998). From "Learning at home", parents and children know home school can do good study skills, rational thinking, and independent work for children learning. These authors think a family can offer a quality that is better than traditional school. Parents can focus on their children, and teach their children what children need to know and learn it (Moore, 2004).
The second aspect is parents and children have blood relationship. This reason makes children feel less stress when they are studying at home. This is why parents love and care about their children the most, and makes parents feel responsible for their children's lives. Clifford in the "The unschooled mind: How children think and how schools should teach" think children can relax at home, so they can pay attention to their study. In a relaxed environment, children can use less time, and learn more things (Clifford, 1994).
The third aspect is that most children have more free time to do other things. They can learn something that they are very interested in, such as painting, singing, and sports. In home schooling, these children have more free time to develop comprehensively. From here, people know the home schooling has goes mainstream. Milton gives data to prove home schooling has become a trend. "Reliable nationwide numbers are difficult are to obtain, but the National Center for Educational Statistics estimates that from 1999 to 2003 the number of home-schooled children increased from around 850,000 to roughly 1. 1 million, a 29 percent jump in four years" (Milton, 2009). From "Home Schooling Goes Mainstream" people clearly know the home schooling has goes mainstream, and home schooling is better than traditional schooling in some aspects. Compare with home schooling, traditional schooling also has some benefits.
In traditional school, teacher is an important role, because teacher is a professional at the education of children. Teachers can accurately find students' problem, and then find an effective solution. Teachers not only teach children knowledge, but also teach them methods of learning. For instance, parents may easily teach children how to study. However, they cannot teach their children to use easier methods to do some math or chemistry questions.
In addition, teachers can use more effective ways to teach and encourage children. "Helping teachers help children at risk" said teachers and children work together to overcome difficulties and recover children's self-confidence" (Pinnell, 1985). From this, parents can know teachers have done specialized learning on how to encourage students. In fact, teachers encourage children to be very useful. When children encounter difficulties in learning, children they can become disheartened and hopeless, teachers help children recover their self-confidence (Chris, 1995).
Moreover, children can join in same age social group to study, to play, to date, and get along with other people. In "Success University-Are Traditional Schools Teaching Students Everything They Need", traditional schools teach children everything they need, because teachers know what each child is better at. This proves traditional schooling is better than home schooling, because teachers have a planned arrangement to teaching. Children can join in some social activities and get along better with classmates. In traditional school, children learned some necessary things such as how to get along with others, how to use time management and study methods to learn, and obtain good quality knowledge (Khai, 2009). Anything has two sides, so home schooling also has disadvantages.
Even though home schooling is good for children in some aspects, it also has some disadvantages for children. In home schooling, parents cannot professionally teach, they cannot teach children as teachers who are well-organized. Parents will not be proficient in each subject, so home schooling is not better in this aspect (May, 2009) In addition, children not have social activities in home schools. In "Home Schooling and the Question of Socialization" children should go to traditional school, because they need social activity to play with friends and participate in traditional extracurricular activities like sports, school plays, and the senior prom. In the traditional school, teachers were introducing children to the culture and values of different groups of people. Children cannot always stay with their parents, they need to make and know different friends. This shows home schooling's disadvantages, home schooling cannot give children the same things as traditional school. Home school has some aspects that are not conducive to the growth of children (Medlin, 2000).
Another reason is parents do not have enough time to educate their children, and children need better social skills and adapt more readily to a variety of social settings as adults. "The Disadvantages of Home Schooling" gives three aspects that point out home schooling's disadvantages. These three aspects are time, socialization, and education equality. The article thinks home schooling does not have the quality of education at home is always lacking. Parents do not all have highly educated and correct ways to teach their children (Wilson, 2005).
Otherwise, these children are affected by parental influence in home schooling. When children are living in a different environment than their parents such as when children go away to school; their parents cannot actually help or support their children on schooling, knowledge or information. Parents still do support their children emotionally but there is nothing they can do to help children if they do not understand children's situation and what children are doing at the moment. Nowadays, many teenagers or children have some different problem with their parents. These children have trouble communicating with their parents, because they have different ideas about something. Children sometimes visit outside of their home, and some irresponsible parents may provide some bad example for other children. For example, if one child sees another fighting with parents, children who saw that fight might do similar things in their life. Since the parents are also humans who make mistakes and have some strong emotional feelings, so they might give some bad examples to their children. Besides, sometimes parents are biased on their children, and force children to follow their rules and thoughts or ideas. Children have to obey their parents and show their respect to elders and parents in China. For example, parents think watching television is bad for children; they will not allow their children to watch television. These are home schooling's disadvantages, home school not have a reasonable schedule, not have good quality education, and not have social group.
In the traditional school, most children like and believe teachers. They teach children a lot of knowledge in school. They are use highly educated and well trained in ways to teach children. However, most children think home schooling better than traditional schooling. In the home school, children have more freedom to do good things such as paint, sing, and play sports. Children learn these things can help them to reach their potential. Children have good environment at home, because they cannot feel most stress at home. They have a relaxed environment to study, and a good environment can prove children to learn more knowledge. It is important that parents can pay attention to their children, so each child get individual attention. Although traditional school has many of its own benefits, it cannot accomplish these aspects as effectively as home schooling. Home schooling can help young children to reach their potential.
Some people may think why home schooling can help children to reach their potential. There is an example can prove this idea. Two children have accepted education at the same time. One child accepts the home schooling, while the other one accepts the traditional schooling. The child who studies in home schooling gets a one on one education, and he feels less stress when he is studying at home, so he can learn lots of knowledge quickly. In home schooling, he has more free time to do other things and can develop comprehensively. Then, how about the other one who studies in traditional schooling? This child do not has more time to communicate with teachers, and he feels more stress in traditional school. He does not have more free time to do other the things that he interested in, because he has more homework and exercises. This comparison shows that why home schooling can help young children reach their potential.
Based on the issue "choosing home schooling or traditional schooling", parents need to choose home schooling. According to the above evidence, people can clearly know that the home schooling is better than the traditional schooling. Children can benefits a lot from home schooling, so that they can reach their potential. Thus, it is a good choice for parents choosing home schooling for their children.
Reference
Chris J., (1995), Why Parents Choose Home Schooling, Educational Leadership, p50-52
Chatterji S., (2006), Are parents the best teachers? From
http://www.en.articlesgratuits.com/are-parents-the-best-teachers-id888.php
Clifford E.K., (1994), The Unschooled Mind: How Children Think and How Schools Should Teach, Journal of Experiential Education, v17 n3 p51-53.
Eccles J.S., Wigfield A., Midgley C., Reuman D., Iver D.M., and Feldlaufer H., (1993), Negative Effects of Traditional Middle Schools on Students' Motivation, The Elementary School Journal, Vol. 93, No. 5, Special Issue: Middle Grades Research and Reform (May, 1993), pp. 553-574
Marilyn S., (1998), Your Child at Play: Three to Five Years, p292
May K., (2009), Home schooling Vs. Traditional schooling, from http://www.ehow.com/facts_5901624_home-schooling-vs_-traditional-schooling.html
Medlin R.G., (2000), Home Schooling and the Question of Socialization, Peabody Journal of Education, Vol. 75, No. 1/2, The Home Education Movement in Context, Practice, and Theory (2000), pp. 107-123
Moore G.L., Lemmer E.M., Wyk N.V., (2004), Learning at home: an ethnographic study of a South African home school, South African Journal of Education Vol.24, P18-24
Milton G., (2009), Home Schooling Goes Mainstream, Education Next, v9 n1 p10-19. (Peer Reviewed Journal)
Khai N.G., (2009), Success University-Are Traditional Schools Teaching Students Everything They Need, http://www.articlealley.com/article_858860_15.html
Ramsey K., and Rebecca P. H., (2001), Learning in Nontraditional Environments: An International Perspective, Childhood Education, v77 n6 p338-40.
Wilson A., (2005), The Disadvantages of Home Schooling,
from http://ezinearticles.com/? The-Disadvantages-of-Home-Schooling&id=49807
