Homeschooling began a long time ago because parents find there are many problems when their children go to public school. So parents decide they teach their children at home. At that time homeschooling is beginning. Until now, homeschooling is still increasing. According to Kreager (2010), "Homeschooling in the United States is the fastest growing sector of K-12 schooling. Also the National Center for Education Statistics estimated that 1. 1 million students received their schooling from home in United States in 2003" p.227-253. When parents send their children to public schools, there are many problems that might happen. They can find their children injured in the public school. Also parents feel their relationship with their children is distant. According to Walsh (2001), "Homeschooled children have the time to learn unencumbered by bullies or troublemakers who don't wish to be at school in the first place" p.14. So when parents decide to teach their children at home, they become teachers. According to Miners (2008), "Parents believe the homeschooling of education is superior to formal schooling" p.26. So homeschooling is better than public school. Although some argue that homeschooling is damaging their children and make their children have poor relationship with other students, homeschooling actually has many benefits, such as many clubs for homeschooler to join and improve their friendships.
Figure 1. Source: U.S. Department of Education. Condition of Education 2009
First, parents are best teacher when they teach their children. It means parents make the children love learning. The most important thing when children study it that they need to be interested it what they study. However, in the public school so many students study together. Each student's personality is different. Some students personality is cheerful but some students personality is shy. So shy students when they have question, they don't ask the teacher. Over time, so many questions accumulate that they can't follow the lesson. Consequently they feel learning is boring and they don't like to learn more. Conversely, if parents teach their children they may avoid this problem. Almost all children like their parents and like to communicate with them. So when they have questions they ask their parents. According to Lyman (1998), "Parents provide their child with useful and interesting educational experiences" p.64. So when parents teach their children it is benefit for their children also parents are best teacher.
Second, homeschooling improves parents and children's relationship. It creates a love for each other and strong family relationship with good communication. However, in public school there are so many students in the class and there are just one teacher to take care of these students. The teacher can't know every students opinion and what they want, but parents know their children, what they think or what they want, so homeschooling can be more effective for children. According to Bennett (2007), " Parent involvement in early intervention programs may enhance the parent-child relationship by providing the parent with increased feeling of parent competence, new understanding of child development" p.381-397. So when children have good communication with their parents, it will benefit for their development.
Third, when children homeschooled they are independent learner and they can get high score on standardized tests. When children are homeschooled, parents are in control of their children's education. It means parents know what their children need. However in public school there are formal schedule. Public school students just follow the schedule to study and they rely on peer approval, so they can't study what they need. Some public students when they graduate they don't know what they study but homeschooler actually learn because parents know what their children need and what parts they should improve. The main point is their children are often self-directed in learning their own rules and skills. They also avoid reliance on peer approval. Because homeschoolers are more interested and motivated they become more successful in their studies. According to Sorey (2008), "Homeschoolers will gain greater ground in higher education" p.22-28. It means homeschooler can get high score on standardized tests and better than public school students.
Figure 2. Academic Achievement of Home School, Catholic/Private and the Nation's Students
Some have argue that homeschooled children do not make friends or learn social skills. This is a good point. However, many clubs such as drama clubs and sports clubs exist for homeschooled children. Also, the homeschooler schedule is similar to that of public school. So they can meet and join clubs communicate with other homeschooler also they can learn social skills in the clubs. According to Sofla (2010), "Students from homeschools and traditional schools have been found to attend extrafamilial social activities with the saome frequency, belong to the same number of organization" p.98-104. So not only public school student can make friend or learn social skills. Also homeschooler can make friend improve their friendship or learn social skills through the activity of some clubs.
Homeschooling
Clubs and Activities for Homeschoolers
Figure 3.
Some argue when homeschooler study at home it is boring time and they are lazy. According to Romanowski (2006), "The homeschooler usually wake up at 9: 00 A.M. So they lack of the concept of time" p.125-129. When they study, they just discuss with their parents. They can't like public school students make a group discuss issues and share others opinion. That is a good point. However, when parents teach their children it can be responsible. So for the concept of time, parents are strict control the children's wake up time. Because parents don't hope their children become lazy students. Also when they study at home they can't feel boring. Brostrum (1997), Homeschooler they would like more books on music, the arts, communication p.106. So when they during study, they can play the music. It can be more effect their study. Contrary in public school when they study, they whole time just sit and listen to teacher's talk. It can be boring during the study.
Some argue when parents teach their children, they can't do best. It means some parents just have high school education or low education. That is a good point. But when parents decide teach their children, they will prepare their plan before they teach their children. For example, they can learn from the Internet or library. Usually, parents brain is faster than children. Usually, parents don't teach their children all the life. They teach their children until high school education. And then they will take their children to go to college. So parents fully qualified for their teaching. According to Joyce (2008), "Almost all parents can be involved in learning activities at homes" p.227-294. So parents can learn more education during teach their children children's education.
Some people argue homeschooling can be unstable thing planning. Because sometimes parents have important events so they have no time care for their children. That day children can't study anymore. That is a very good point. However, when parents have important events, they can give their children study plan or some work. When they come back and check that. Parents have important events, so they can't teach their children, so they can use the gift, promise their children if they do well the work without their parents, parents will give reward their children.
In conclusion, when parents decide their children take the homeschooling it is benefit way for children. Because homeschooling make the children learn better get high score improve parents and children's relationship. Also parents know what their children opinion and what part they should study. Although some people argue homeschooling is harmful for children, but to show these reasons it is not big problems for homeschooler. Contrary public school has more problems than homeschooling. That why homeschooling is fastest growing. So homeschooling is benefit for children also it is good way for children.
