"Sex education is the process of acquiring information and forming attitudes and beliefs about sex, sexual identity, relationships and intimacy. Sex education is also about developing young people's skills so that they make informed choices about their behaviour, and feel confident and competent about acting on these choices."(Archives for Sexual Behaviour) Actually, Sex education in China is always a taboo for people to talk about, although China has done many things to improve sex education, most people still have a misunderstanding about sex and sex education, and that misunderstanding may lead to a series of sexual problems, or even sex crimes. So in my opinion, the sex education in China is not good, people must try to think about ways to improve that.
In China, every time people hear the word -- "sex", most of them, especially adults, will appear shy and don't want to talk about it, at least don't want to talk about it in the public place. Many Chinese young adults now may have the same experience. When they were young, and asked their parents where they came from, their parents told them that they were picked up on the street. Some adolescents still think they came into the world because their parents walked hand in hand until they had biology class in junior or senior high school. Even though the biology class has contents related to sex, students cannot get the information well, because when it comes to the class on sex and puberty, teachers would pass over those pages in the textbook and leave them to read it on their own. It seems this is the standard way for teachers across China to deal with the sex educator part of their public health classes. There's no standard for what should be taught or how, and teachers have little incentive to emphasize the subject. After all, safe sex isn't going to show up on the national university entrance exam that students spend years cramming for. Broadly speaking, students learn about reproductive anatomy. They learn they're not supposed to have sex, and that if they do, they must take precautions. And that's that-no guidance about which precautions. However, teachers and parents who want to hide the basic facts and hope that the sex education taught in biology classes starting in junior school will solve all the issues are kidding themselves. Healthy students should know what's going on within them, both them mentally and physically in adolescence.
Teenagers have plenty of curiosity but little self-control when exposed to obscene material. As attitudes are becoming more open, young people are having consensual behaviour, but their knowledge is far behind what they should know, that causes the premarital pregnancies and induced abortions increased. Poor sex education teaching may generate a backlash, as students, eager to learn, are turning to other sources, such as newspapers, videos and even the Internet where they may get some pornographic information and implant a misperception of sex into their minds, this giving rise to a growing level of sex crimes in China. The number of juvenile criminal cases involving prostitution, sexual abuse and rape have grown since 2002, records from Beijing's Haidian District People's Court showed. (China Daily)
According to the 2001 Almanac of China's Health, as many as "10 million induced abortions are performed annually in China, and about 20-30% are provided to unmarried young women"(CHFLS), and when unreported and medication-induced abortions are counted, the actual number is substantially higher. The rate of abortion in China is about 24 abortions for every 1,000 women between the ages of 15 and 44. It is less than half that of the world's highest rate, but the rise in the numbers is significant (United Nations Population Division).
Increased sexual activity brings economic, social and, especially, health concerns. More and more Chinese youth are grappling with issues related to contraception and pregnancy, STIs and HIV, and sexual coercion. AIDS has been a driving force behind recent changes in sex education. "Ministry of Health figures show China has about 264,000 confirmed HIV cases and about 78,000 of them are AIDS patients"(CHFLS) . The ratio between male and female patients was 5: 1 and most of them were young people. 79% patients were between 20-40 years old. Among the reported cases, two thirds of them were infected through drug injection, 8% through sexual contact and three cases through mothers. In China, the proportion of infected women has increased from 10 per cent in the 1980s to the current 41 per cent, these women, many of whom are infected by their husbands, usually transmit the virus to their children, creating a vicious circle. These are all because of the lack of sex education. They don't know how is HIV transmitted, so that they cannot protect themselves. Also, many people have a wrong attitude towards the HIV and AIDS patients that they regards those patients and these two diseases as horrible, and they never want to have any contact with those patients. That is wrong because HIV and AIDS cannot be infected through normal contact.
A little bit of knowledge may be a dangerous thing. Lack of sex education in the rural area in China is another big problem. People in rural areas do not even have money to live, not to mention the education, and of course-the sex education. Because of poverty, most people in the rural areas have wrong attitudes towards sex, generation after generation, and this leads to a problem that especially happens in China--parents only want baby boys but not girls, because they think that boys can do a lot of works and take the responsibility of the family, but girls cannot. Besides, they think that girls will finally married some guys and no longer belong to the family. So when they have a girl and they don't have money to raise it, they may do something like sell the baby girl, or even throw it away.
Besides the problems mentioned above, China still does a lot to make the sex education better. "'For a little kid, perception of a sex organ is as same as a cup because they don't have sexual excitement.' said Liu Dalin, vice-president of the Asia Federation for Sexology, a leading sex education expert. 'Sex education in China should make adjustments to meet the changing situation'"(China Daily). And the Chinese government do carry out measures to make adjustments. The Ministry of Education issued new guidelines on December 26, 2006, that said "primary schools across China should teach pupils about the human body, including secondary sexual characteristics"(China Daily). The new guidelines also stipulate that "junior high school students should start learning about AIDS and how to prevent it"(China Daily). Beijing anti-AIDS campaigner Xiao Dong applauded the new policy. "With the new policy, children can learn about sexual health at an earlier age. That's very helpful to their growth."
China also launches a nationwide sex education campaign to break the taboos of talking about sex, and encourages people who suffer from sexual disease to seek medical help (Times of India).
A sexual revolution is ongoing in China now, especially among adolescent. Previous generation have a very conservative attitude towards sex, for them; premarital sex was almost unheard of. Nowadays young people in China are more open-minded about dating and relationships, they also get more opinion for their life, their sex experience, and also their education.
Above all, people can obviously find that the sex education in China needs to be improved, and people do have some solutions. Researchers do a series of observation and survey, and they find that large-scale, community-based interventions have the potential to make an impact on unmarried youth in areas where a high proportion of youth are engaged in sexual activity. In school and home Students should be taught about family values, morals and other values related to sex. This should combine both parents and schools' effort to make their children have a right attitude towards sex, and along with parents and schools, the medical community needs to take a part in teaching youth about sexuality. Medical experts should share their knowledge about sexual development and the consequences of risky sexual behavior just as they teach young patients about nutrition and exercise. Medical experts can provide comprehensive sex education and reproductive health services to unmarried Chinese youth and help reduce rates of sexual coercion, promote increased contraceptive use and help decrease rates of unwanted pregnancy.
All the solutions mentioned above are good, but they are not enough. Sex education in China is not only a problem of lack of sex knowledge, but for most, is the way to educate. So first of all, the definition of sex education more clearly.
Sex education aims to reduce the risks of potentially negative outcomes from sexual behavior, such as unwanted or unplanned pregnancies and infection with sexually transmitted diseases including HIV. It also aims to contribute to young people's positive experience of their sexuality by enhancing the quality of their relationships and their ability to make informed decisions over their lifetime. Sex education that works, and that it is effective is sex education that contributes to both these, aims, thus helping young people to be safe and enjoy their sexuality. If sex education is going to be effective it needs to include opportunities for young people to develop skills in negotiation, decision-making, assertion listening.
Young people get information about sex and sexuality from a wide range of sources including each other, through the media including advertising, television and magazines, as well as leaflets, books and websites which are intended to be sources of information about sex and sexuality. Some of this will be accurate and some inaccurate. Providing information through sex education is therefore about finding out what young people already know and adding to their existing knowledge and correcting any misinformation they may have. For example, young people may have heard that condoms are not effective against HIV or that there is a cure for AIDS. It is important to provide information which corrects mistaken beliefs. Without correct information young people can put themselves at greater risk.
So in order to let young people continue on the right path, besides the school and the medical community, parents or family is the most important element. At home, young people can easily have one-to-one discussions with parents or careers which focus on specific issues, questions or concerns. They can have a dialogue about their attitudes and views. Sex education at home also tends to take place over a long time, and involves lots of short interactions between parents and children. There may be times when young people seem reluctant to talk, but it is important not to interpret any diffidence as meaning that there is nothing left to talk about. As young people get older, things seen on television can be used as, an opportunity to initiate conversation. It is also important not to defer dealing with a question or issue for too long as it can suggest unwilling to talk about it. There is evidence that positive parent-child communication about sexual matters can lead to greater condom use among young men and a lower rate of teenage conception among young women.
Sex education is a long-term and complicated process. The sex education for teenagers is a complicated task. It integrates sexual morality, psychology, ethics and law. The major purpose of the sex education for teenagers is to let them have a correct and comprehensive understanding in sex, which will help them properly control their sexual behaviour. Many professional people in China now are trying to change the situation, but as with many things in China, new ideas battle traditional values. Based on thees conditions, obviously present that sex education is not effective; it still needs to be improved by families, schools and social communities. As long as these measures work, sex education in China will be much better.
Work Cited:
Aresu, Alessandra. "Sex Education In Modern And Contemporary China: Interrupted Debates Across The Last Century." International Journal of Educational Development. 29. 5 (2009): 532. Academic One File. Web. 6 Apr. 2010.
Cao C et al., "Reproductive Health Investigation On 788 Unmarried Women." Chinese Journal of Maternal and Child Health,2000, 15(10):628-629
Cui N, Li M, Gao E. "Views of Chinese Parents On The Provision Of Contraception To Unmarried Youth". Reproductive Health Matters. 9. 17 (2001). 137-145. Print.
Lim, L. "China's Dangerous Sexual Ignorance." BBC NEWS. BBC.co.uk, 23 May 2005. Web. 8 Mar. 2010. <http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/asia-pacific/4572859.stm>.
Lou C, Zhao Q, Gao E, Shah I. "Can the Internet Be Used Effectively to Provide Sex Education to Young People in China?" Journal of Adolescent Health 39. 5 (2006): 720-728. Print.
Shank, Megan. "Let's Talk About Sex." Ms. Magazine Wntr 2010: 24. Academic One File. Web. 6 Apr. 2010.
Tong C, Chen J and Cheng L, "A Cross-Sectional Study on Causes for Induced Abortion in Shanghai," Shanghai Medicine,1999, 22(6):345-348
Zheng Z, Zhou Y, Zheng L, Yang Y, Zhao D, Lou C, Zhao S. "Sexual Behavior And Contraceptive Use Among Unmarried, Young Women Migrant Workers In Five Cities In China" Reproductive Health Matters 9. 17 (2001): 118-127. Print.
Wang Bo, Hertog S, Meier, Lou C, Gao E. "The Potential Of Comprehensive Sex Education In China: Findings From Suburban Shanghai." International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health 31. 2 (2005): 63-72. Print.
