Video games consist of a mixture of violence, language, and sexual elements because these elements will bring the huge economic interests to the manufacturer. However many parents have complained that these elements have made a bad impact on children' studying, even the communication with other family members. Before 1993-1994, the video game industry themselves had to decide whether or not the games were suitable for children. One of the organizations in the United States to help consumers determine a game's content and suitability is Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB). However the effects of the ESRB have been questioned. On one side, the game manufacturers argue that ESRB should be removed because it will affect their opportunities for economic development. Another group, the experts, believes that families should take the responsibility of monitoring their children's game-playing habits. On the other side, are, parents who have their own perspective. Most support the ESRB because they believe it is watching out for their children. But there will always be parents who disagree with the ESRB's rulings, whether they are more liberal or more conservative. On the whole, the ESRB should be removed because it will mislead consumers into trusting it, affect economic development, and should instead be replaced with a family education.
The responsibilities of the ESRB is to decide whether or not the games were suitable for children and decide if the game was rated E, T, or M, as in Figure 1, depending on the content of the video game. According to Game Ratings Rundown, "most video games released in America carry a rating from the ESRB, a nonprofit, self-regulatory, and formed in 1994."(Mc Cann 2009). ESRB rating consist of two parts: "a rating symbol on the front of the game box addressing age- appropriateness, and one of over 30 different content descriptors on the back of the box elaborating on elements that may be of interest or concern to users." (Mc Cann 2009). Therefore people can know the content of the game without playing it. However, therefore there are a lot of problems in ESRB.
Figure 1: a diagram showing the rating system
(http://www.esrb.org/index-js.jsp)
In the respect of keeping minors from the games which do not fit for them, the effects of the ESRB appear very weak. The law prohibit sale or rental of violent video games which are upon rating A to youngsters under 18. Only parents can buy or rent the games. (Shawn 2009). Because of the law, the salesman will refuse to sell a game which is rated A to a child. Some game shop salesman said that they meet a lot of children who wanted to buy the game that is not fit for them every day. They would check their ID and refuse the children who were under 18. Many people agree that the ESRB can be a legal basis to monitor the manufactures and the game store, so that can limit some games sold to minors. Matthew Kennelly (U.S. District Court Judge) believes that the ESRB "is smart enough, strong enough and vigilant enough to keep inappropriate video games out of children's hands." He also said "the state, not parents, will determine which video games are appropriate and which ones are not."(Matthew 2005). Views of Matthew's supporters are very clear-cut. First, the ESRB has a very strict process. "Each rater settles on one of six ratings and then compares notes to reach a consensus. It would take raters a month to play out all the possibilities."(Baker 2010). Therefore the rating of ESRB is a trustworthy rule. Second, the parents refer to ESRB to buy a game for their children because they think that the ESRB is a trusted rule. In fact, parents can check their children's game to control their children. However, most of parents do not have enough time to communicate with their children because of their works. What is more, ESRB organization is recognized by the American government.(Miller 2009). These reasons really gain the trust of the parents.
In contrast to the supporters of ESRB, many people believe that the ESRB is really weak; some people even said that it is a waste of money and time to establish a rating organization such as the ESRB. For one thing, children can easily buy any games that they like even some games which are not provided to them because a child can ask his or her friends or parents to buy some games for him. The game store cannot know who their real customers are. For another thing, the game manufacturers do not want the ESRB to affect their opportunities for economic development; therefore the manufactures will give pressure to ESRB to reduce the game rating appropriately. The manufacturers can improve the game sales volume. Money has contributed significantly to the success of this method. For instance, even though the game World of War Craft includes a lot of violent elements, it was rated as rating T. The consequences are many children will experience his game and the violent elements which are bad for them. However the manufacturer can reap quite a few benefits from it.
The ESRB is not beneficial to the manufacturer and can cause huge economic losses. However some people believe that ESRB does not cause huge economic losses. With the development of the society, people are entering a more free society; the judgment standard of rating between the different countries will be united. The advantage of the manufacturer is that games which had been made in one country will be sold to another country without examination and approval. Therefore, games retailers' sales will be raised even though the market is weak. For another thing, the ESRB is like a catalyst, it will promote the development of the society because the uniform ESRB will construct a huge and regular game market, so that the game trading will become easier. (Jeff, David, Barry 2008). The country will require a huge income from the game market. ESRB directly concerns counters'' development and game market economy's moral orders.
The ESRB can cause huge economic losses because the rating of the games will let manufacturer lose a lot of customers. For example, if there is a game which is rated M, which means the game cannot be sold to the people who are under 17. The different judgment standard of rating between the different countries will obstruct the game transmission. This phenomenon often occurs between developed countries and developing countries because the freedom of people and society in developed countries are higher than that of developing countries. For instance, the World Of War Craft is rated as T rating in America; it is a very common game in America. However, it was rated as A rating by the Chinese ministry because the Chinese government believe that the World of War Craft is too violent and bloody. Therefore, if the manufacturer wants the game to be in motion and do business in China, the violent elements of the game must be censored. Figure 2, shows the same characters in the World of War Craft. The left one is the appearance of America server, but the right one is the appearance of Chinese server. The manufacturers have to add skin on the surface of the ghost. There are more than 1,000 elements that had to be changed because the Chinese government believes these elements are disadvantage in the stability of the society and development because Chinese government thinks that the violent elements will create a violent environment. However, changing a lot of game elements is a big challenge and a huge economic loss. In fact Blizzard, the manufacture of World of War Craft, has lost a lot of funds because it needed to change a lot of game elements. Operation the World War Craft has caused a huge economic loss to the manufactures. (Silvia, Bonnie, Scott 2008). The manufactures say that removing the ESRB will cause great impetus of economic and game industry development.
Figure 1: Same characters in the World of War Craft. The left one is the appearance of America server. The right one is the appearance of Chinese server.
(http://game.mop.com/wlyx/2027175.shtml)
The ESRB cannot do better than parents in deciding what is good for their children, thus family factor such as parents' education is important to protect the teenagers from the attack of unhealthy information. Grand Theft Auto is a video game series which is rated as M rating published by Rockstar North. The game is a role-playing game; it includes a lot of bloody, violent and sexual elements. People can play the role of a criminal in a big city that is out of order. The assignments of the role are to kill, rob, carjack and destroy public utilities. The players can also control the character to do everything they want, something like stealing a car or killing people in any way they want. The game is considered immoral by a lot of experts. Steven Johnson who is the famous author of interface culture and Emergence believes that the games such as Grand Theft Auto are very harmful to teenagers as well as young children. Violent games will activate criminal behavior and mislead teenagers. He also said that the Entertainment Software Rating Board plays a significant role in reducing the crime rate and protecting teenagers from the attack of unhealthy information. (Johnson 2005). A father who had two children said that ESRB evaluation of the Grand Theft Auto made him know the game was too bloody and violent and it was not good for his children. Therefore, he did not buy the game for his children. (Eugene 2008). Many families believe that helping children buy or rent violent videos is very dangerous, they cannot recognize which of these games are inappropriate, and they cannot decide if the games their children are playing are dangerous to them. Therefore parents think the ESRB becomes the only thing which can limit their children playing violent games. (Eugene 2008). Parents always see the ESRB as a watchdog that is the first line of defense for their children when it comes to video games. However, parents ignore a very important thing which is their educational responsibility to their children. Parents are shirking their responsibility.
Family education plays a significant role in promoting ideological and ethical improvement among minors. It is the responsibility of the parents. The decisions should not be left to a principle, ESRB, a law. They have to be left to parents. Actually, it is very easy for parents to decide and identify the game which is appropriate for their children. As long as parents play the game with the children for a few minutes, they will know whether or not the game is appropriate for their children. (Paul 2005). There are also some parents who believe that violent games are good for their children because the violent games are like a safety valve which lets children release their natural aggression and desire in the virtual world. (Anton2007). This kind of family education way is a very effective way to teacher children. First the laws had restrained the behaviors of teenagers, so the violent games helped teenagers to reduce the pressure of life and study. People can relax themselves after a stressful day of working by playing some exciting games. Playing video games lets people come out of themselves and drain their emotions in order to relax. In fact children learn their morals and values from influential people in their lives, not from the media they consume. Children are informed by society and environment. Therefore, if children are living in balanced society they can know good behavior and the bad behavior. Second the ESRB would give parents a false appearance that ESRB had solved all the problems for them. (Anton 2007). That means that parents are too dependent on ESRB; however the ESRB cannot protect their children very well. Therefore, the ESRB is not successful.
On the whole, the disadvantages of ESRB are far greater than its merits. Even though the ESRB has won most of parents' acceptance, the ESRB cannot work effectively because the ESRB will reduce the game rating criterion appropriately under the pressure from manufacturers so that the manufacturers can raise their income, and the weak principle of the ESRB makes the ESRB not achieving intended practical results. Therefore, consumers continue to depend on ESRB to help them determining a game's content and suitability is not good idea. One thing can replace the ESRB is family education which plays a significant role in promoting ideological and ethical improvement among minors. Children learn their morals and values from influential people in their lives, not from the media they consume. Therefore, if parents are responsible for their children and provide favorable conditions to their children, children could not be influenced by the unhealthy elements. Parents should communicate with their children frequently so that can find out children's idea and can remedy unhealthy idea from children. Parents can also play games with their children and educate children during playing game. For instance, if the game the parents and the children are playing has some violent elements, the parents can tell children not to imitate the violent behavior. Such education not only can create a relaxed environment in the family but can also let children grow up healthy. What is more important is that violent games are like a safety valve which lets children release their natural aggression and desire in the virtual world. All in all, family education is more effective and more helpful than ESRB in protecting children from the harm of violent games. After ESRB has been removed and replaced by family education, the manufacturers do not have to change many elements in order to adapt to different judgment standards of ratings between different countries. The manufacturers will have more extensive customers. However the precondition of the solution is that the parents have to be responsible for their children, parents cannot shirk their responsibility. Therefore parents play a significant role in family education.
ESRB should be removed and be replaced with a family oriented factor. Parents should educate their children instead of relying on the ESRB because the parents are the most important teacher to their children. People who trust the ESRB should change their mind, for the ESRB can protect the children from the violent games because it not powerful enough. If the governments remove the ESRB, the country will have a huge and regular game market and will require a huge income. To sum up, until the ESRB are going to be removed, children will have more chances to communicate with their parents and release pressure to the violent game. The game manufacture will have a bigger foreign exchange market, the GDP will be raised. People will not be interfered with the rule such as ESRB.
Reference
Anton, G. (2007). The Watchful eye of gaming. 27(17), 22.
Baker, J. (2010). Video Game Ratings. (2010). Npr news. NPR.
Cheryl, K, Lawrence, A, Eugene , V, Dorothy, E, & Armand, M. (2009). M-rated video games and aggressive or problem behavior among young adolescents.. Applied
Developmental Science, 13(10888691), 188-198.
Jeff, D, David, P, & Barry, B. (2003). Learning from games:. 1-10.
Johnson, S. (2005, july 27). Hillary vs. the xbox: game over. Retrieved from http://www.videogamevoters.org/pages/whats_being_said/#waste
Kennelly, M. (2005, December 7). Don't waste money appealing video game law. Retrieved from http://www.videogamevoters.org/pages/whats_being_said/#waste
Miller, M. (2009). Exploring the relationship between self-regulation of video games and changes in game content. Conference Papers -- Law & Society, 1-33.
Mc Cann, S. (2009). Game ratings rundown. Library Journal, 132(3), 85-86.
Paul, K. (2005, February 20). A more Mature approach to video-game violence. Retrieved from http://www.videogamevoters.org/pages/whats_being_said/#waste
Silvia, L, Bonnie , N, Scott, M, Yang, W, & He, J. (2008). Computer supported cooperative work. New York: ACM.
