ARRANGED MARRIAGE IN THE WORLD
Marriage is more relevant today than ever before in history. It is the foundation of a social relationship between a man and a woman. People all over the world will consider the marriages most fundamental thing in their life for re production. It is important in present times and in the past. Also, still important today because it keeps family life. Islam considers marriage as a relationship between spouses. Also, the mother spend a lot of time to choose a good partner for her children. It is practice vary considerably from culture to culture and there are many different ways to get married. One of them is arranged marriages. Arranged marriage is when a family chooses a spouse for their children. However, arranged marriages have changed in modern society. Many countries in the world still use this marriage. In fact, arranged marriages remain the norm in many parts of the world particularly in Asia, North Africa, Middle East and India. India is one of the countries where arranged marriages are most common. On the other hand, people argue about this topic and it is a big issue today because the choice of a marriage partner is one of the most important to get happy life. In addition, many people argue about who should choose a spouse for young people. Some people believe parents should choose a spouse for their children. However, there are some people that believe parents should not choose a spouse for their children. Each side has evidence for their beliefs. .
For example, in Saudi Arabia my family will consider arranged marriages because they believe it is a best kind of marriage and there are many benefits of this marriage such as keeping the family together and to protect children for bad thing. Also, increased the tribes and protect the last name for each family. In Saudi Arabia this is the only way to get married. It is arranged marriages. However, some people prefer to choose a spouse for them self. This paper will respond to the other side for people who do not believe parents should choose a spouse for their children.
This is a history about how parents can choose a good wife or husband for their children. Different families in the world have a different rules when they choose a spouse for their children. Also, each countries have different customs and tradition for choose a spouse. (Zuberi, 2011, Par # 2) explains "arranged marriages are the cultural norm for (many) Muslims across the world". The author will explains about each countries or families have different rules about children how to know about partner. She tell in Islam people can get married only about this marriages. And she gives more example how can couples to know each other. Some family they allowed for couples to know more about each on the telephone or send massage. Different family they meet each spouse with group of people because they need know each other. After they know each other can get marriages. In addition, children in Saudi Arabia when they ready to get married they tell parents to see for him a good wife. The grandmother or mother are to look about someone has a good history for this family. When the mother get all information about the partner they can meet with her family and give her gold ring. People asked why the mother give the partner this ring because when the partner accept the man they take this ring after that they can get marriage and when her do not accept the man she can leave without ring.
In this photo will explains about people in Saudi Arabia can get marriage about arranged married and the parents can choose a spouse for their children. Also, this marriages are very succeed in Saudi Arabia because each partner can feel more comfortable.
According to (Seabastian, 2010, Par # 2) explains that each countries have different types and goals to get arranged marriages and he say " Arranged marriages were common as far back as Biblical times and beyond. The traditional purposes of these types of unions were political, military, and social". In addition, the author gives example about In ancient Egypt, the people can keeps royal over the years when they get this marriages. "one of the chief goals of arranged marriage was to keep royal bloodlines pure"(Seabastian, 2010, Par # 2).
Some people have argued that arranged marriages are not based on love between the couple and without love each spouse can feel uncomfortable. In addition, they believe without love the life cannot succeed. (Dr. William. 2007, Par# 3) "Being in love is not a good reason to get married. It's about the long haul". He explains that love can came over and over the years between spouses. For example, in the past in India all parents chose the spouse for their children and they did not have any love for each other. However, at first time maybe will this happened because each spouse do not know about other. However, there are many people in married about arranged marriages they have happy lives because each spouse learns about their partner and can feel more comfortable. In Saudi Arabia parents choose a spouse for children because they know background information about the partner and each family can take a long time to choose a good wife or husband for their children. Also, parents have a lot of experience in life. ( Penn, 2011. P# 638). explained "parents have more life experience. He say when parents have more and more experience for life they can choose a good spouse. For example, when people have more experience with a job they have good skills for life.
In this picture will explain about each spouse can get arranged marriages without love and they can couple start with each other and can control this marriages. Each families in the world can protect their children about this marriages. Also, parents can teach their children about the benefits about arranged marriages. In addition, some countries in the world they prefer arranged marriages than love.
Some people argue that arranged marriages restrict personal freedom because the parents chooses the spouse for their children. According to( Jefferson,2012. Par# 2)" parents or other designated individuals choose spouse for young people because young people are too immature and impulsive to make a wise choice and experienced elders are likely to do better". The author will explained older people has a good skills to choose spouse and know about in side partner. Also, parents have a large role to play in choosing the marital life of their children and protect the family. ( Penn, 2011. P# 638) explains " parents can take care of their children, and the children obey their parents. Parents find suitable spouses for their children from appropriate families. And there is no chance of marrying outside their own religion, caste, social status or economic class. This protects the couple from the problems that usually originate from disparity of religion". He explains when parents choose a spouse they have much advice on certain qualities to look for in spouse. Also, some traditional cultures keep young people apart to prevent sexual temptation and produces bad choice of spouse. Some parents prefer to choose spouse for their children because to keep religion because each partner has the same religion they know about each other and they can feel more comfortable.
Some people argue arranged marriages are a good way to get divorce in the end . However, according to ( Dawan, 2011. Par# 1&2). "Differences in religion, socioeconomic status and cultural upbringing can cause much contention in marriage". So, arranged marriages cannot end in divorce because if each spouse came from same custom, traditional, religion and cultural they understand each other. Also, according to this author, " parents choose a spouse compatible in personality". He explained, if parents choose similar personality the life come more comfortable. In addition, parents using a good logic when choose partner. According to (Maritn ,2009. Par# 4) say "arranged marriages work far better than love marriages" and he explained arranged marriages are stronger than love and he say arranged marriage are one of the lowest divorce. Statistics show arranged marriages are only 1.1% get divorced for each country.
Arranged marriages will benefit their children in the further because they can promotes strong families and product children for bad behave or choose wrong partner and product generation. In addition, parents have a good experience in the life and rules can choose a good partner to control the family. In addition, parents using a good logic when choose partner. Also, in many countries arranged marriages are a good way for children to respect family. Some families they have discuss with their children and they explain about why the choose the spouse for them. Children can respect the family because they explain and discuss about this marriage and they give him a good reason to consider what they family believe.
In conclusion, marriages are important in the best and present time. People can get marriages for different way. This paper will explains about one of the type of marriages. It is arranged marriage. Also, they give history about how can parents choose a good wife or husband for their children. There are many benefits of arranged married in Islam one of the most important to protect children for bad behave. In many countries arranged marriages are most marriage than love because parents want the best choose for their spouse. Today, most young people prefer taking the spouse on their own. Arranged marriage have many benefit and remain the norm in many parts of the world. Arranged marriages promote strong families, maintains familial links, customary, conserves property, maintains strong discipline over children.
Reference
Dawna, T.( 2011). Positive Effects of Arranged Marriages. Retrieved from ehow family http://www.ehow.com/info_8614432_positive-effects-arranged-marriages.html
Jefferson, F. ( 2010 ). "Arranged Marriage Psychology". Retrieved from Psychology: http:// www.psychologytoday.com 4/10/2012
Martin, B.(2009). The benefits of arranged marriage. Retrieved from: suite101 http://martin-bohn.suite101.com/the-benefits-of-having-an-arranged-marriage-a144200
Penn, R. (2011). ''Arranged Marriages in Western Europe: Media Representations and Social Reality". Journal Of Comparative Family Studies, 42(5), 637-650.
Seabastian, I.(2010). Arranged Marriages past and present. Retrieved from Hub pages. http://seabastian.hubpages.com/hub/Arranged-Marriages-Past-and-Present.
William C, (2007). To Love or to Arrange. Retrieved from iml.jou.ufl.edu/projects/spring07/zuffoletti/love.html
Zuberi, H. (2011). Arranged marriage is not forced marriage. Retrieved from Muslimmaters. http://muslimmatters.org/2011/12/22/arranged-marriage-is-not-forced-marriage/
ARRANGED MARRIAGE IN THE WORLD 1
