(WP#5) "Homeschooling"
Abraham Lincoln is not only famous as the 16th president of the United States, the preserver of the Union during the American Civil War, and the liberator of the slaves in America, but he also is known for being the product of homeschooling rather than other traditional means of education ("Abraham Lincoln", 2011). Homeschooling has become a controversial issue in the USA and the world. In Germany, homeschooling is illegal because the German government believes children need to learn to get along with people of all cultures and backgrounds (Steininger, 2010). "In our increasingly multicultural society," said Berlin's education minister, Zoellner "school is the place for a peaceful dialogue between different opinions, values, religions and ideologies" (As cited in Steininger, 2010). Also, in Sweden, homeschooling is becoming illegal because all children need to have a professional teacher (Steininger, 2010). In contrast to these countries, in the USA it is not illegal to homeschool children.
Some people support homeschooling and others are against it. According to the U.S. Department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics (2008), 1. 1 million children were being educated at home in 2003. This is 29% more than the students who were being homeschooled in 1998, as can be seen in Figure 1 (p. 1). Moreover, their estimate projects that more than 2 million children will have been homeschooled in 2010 (as cited in National Center for Education Statistics, 2008, p.1). This statistic shows how homeschooling has become popular in the United States of America. The increased number of homeschoolers makes it a social issue. The question that has been raised by parents is "is homeschooling beneficial for our children?" This paper will describe why homeschooling is beneficial for children. According to much research, homeschooling has a positive influence on homeschooled children because children have more free time, they are not exposed to negative influences, they learn in a good environment, parents can teach their religion, the cost is low and many homeschooled students have high academic achievement.
Figure 1: Growth of homeschooling in United States using information from the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, Parent Survey of the 1999 National Household Education Surveys Program (NHES). Retrieved from (National Center for Education Statistics, 2008). Many experts cite free time as a reason for homeschooling; children can spend more time with their families, pursue their academic and extra-curricular interests, and take on social responsibilities. Homeschooling provides families the chance to be together most of the time. "Homeschooling families spend lots of time learning and playing together and this naturally creates close ties between brothers and sisters and between children and parents" (Kochenderfer, Kanna, & Kiyosaki, 2002, n.p.). Thus, this time that has been spent with families makes the relationship between them stronger and this is one reason that parent choose to homeschool their children. Furthermore, according to Mc Reynolds (2007), a child clinical psychologist and the associate editor of Encounter magazine, in traditional school the "excessive homework and test-prep are encroaching on children's time and family time, making it difficult for them to engage in activities that are important for their full development" (p. 58). This shows that in traditional school there is not enough time for the child to explore their interests. On the other hand, the flexible schedule of homeschooling allows children to spend more time doing activities.
Beyond schoolwork, some parents think it is important for their children to follow their passion. According to Medlin (2000), a Chair of the Department of Psychology at Stetson University in Florida, "the flexible schedule and more efficient use of time homeschooling affords may allow home-schooled children to participate in more extracurricular activities" (p. 112-113). The leisure time that homeschooled children have is more effective for them to improve their talent. They can play sports, practice the piano, do an art project, or anything that they like. Also, homeschooled children can use more time to study one or more subjects that they are weak in. For example, if a child is talented in math, but they are weak in history, they can use their time to study history more than math. Not only do homeschoolers have more time to focus on a talent, but also they can have more time for social responsibility. For example, "giving children regular responsibilities around the house" such as buying things from the supermarket which helps them to be involved in society (Meldin, 2000, p. 111). Thus, homeschooling provides the time to consolidate family bonds and to have more time for activities, school subjects and responsibilities.
Another reason parents choose to homeschool their children is because of their desire to protect their children from peer pressure that can corrupt their morals. According to Toch, "many parents view the public schools as ineffective and dangerous" (As cited in Ray, 2000, p. 97). According to Kantrowitz and Wingert (1998), parents decide to homeschool their children because the parents are afraid of the crime-ridden schools and the negative influence of peer groups on their children, such as pressure to use drugs and alcohol. Becoming involved with illegal activities could destroy students' lives by causing them to end up in jail or addicted to mind altering substances. Moreover, the negative influences and peer pressures in traditional schools could lead students to poor self-esteem (Medlin, 2000). Furthermore, According to Dr. Ray, the president of the National Home Education Research Institute (NHERI),"peer pressure distracts students from academic pursuits, reduces their efficient use of time, and draws students into behaviors" (2000, p. 96). Because homeschooling families have many hours to work together as a family and develop strong bonds with one another, it is easier for parents to guide children away from these negative behaviors and peer pressure. Homeschooled children often have stronger self-esteem and therefore, are less influenced by peer pressure they may encounter in extracurricular activities. For this reason, parents make this choice of homeschooling to protect their children from the bad influences of peer groups and from learning bad behavior.
When we examine the atmosphere of the home, it is better learning environment than the problem-ridden atmosphere in traditional school. According to Gorder, the author of Home Schools: An Alternative, said that "home schools alleviate this problem by providing an atmosphere that is friendly to learning" (1996, p. 20). Also, Gorder mentions that homeschooled children will watch their parents and learn from the parents' positive example on their lives. According to Field & Field (2007), the authors of Homeschooling 101: The Essential Handbook, "the homeschool environment is simply more conducive than public school for helping our children pursue right relationships and a well-rounded social life" (p.13). Homeschoolers are involved in their family's life and as a result they can learn more about the risks in life and how they can solve their problems in the future. Moreover, parents will have the time to watch their children's habits and correct them if they are wrong (Gorder, 1996). These bad habits might include using bad language, lying, and treating others unfairly. Furthermore, "in the homeschooling environment, such attitudes will be readily apparent and can be dealt with on a daily basis" (Field couples, 2007, p.13). As a result, many parents homeschool their children to surround them with good influences and to help them learn better behavior.
Teaching children traditional religion is one of the many reasons that parents homeschool their children. According to the U.S. department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics (2008), 83 % of parents choose religion as a reason for homeschooling. In addition, according to Field & Field (2007), the main reason that most parents choose homeschooling is to "prepare the children for a life dedicated to God" (p. 8). Homeschooling helps parents to increase the religious faith of their children. According to Nord, a Professor of the Philosophy of Religion, public school does not adequately accommodate religion. Moreover, Nord states that "public schooling discriminates against religious ways of making sense of the world. This is no minor problem" (1999, n.p.). Specifically in science courses, students in public schools are only taught a scientific perspective of the world with no focus given to what some religions believe. When these children are taught at home, the parents are able to intertwine their religious beliefs into science and history lessons and solidify their religious beliefs when teaching their children about the world (Nord, 1999). Thus, some parents prefer to have their children homeschooled and teach them the traditional religion of the family.
On the other hand, some people say that parents should enroll their children into a private school which teaches them traditional religion. However, homeschooling is still the better option because the private school could be expensive. According to Smith, president of Home School Legal Defense Association (HSLDA), the average that private school cost is around $6,000 per child per year, compared to the average cost of homeschooling which is just $600 per child (2004). This statistic could be different depending on the materials that the homeschoolers use or choose. According to Dr. Ray (2010), 1.3% of the homeschooling families spend around $1,800-$1,999 per year on material. However, in general homeschooling is cheap. The cheaper cost of homeschooling helps parents to decide to homeschool their children.
One of the common myths about homeschooling is that homeschooled students will not be as well educated as others in traditional school and they will not be prepared to enter college. Multiple studies have shown that homeschooled students have scored significantly higher than the general US population academically. The academic performance analyses show that "home school graduates are as ready for college as traditional high school graduates"(as cited in Jones & Gloecker, 2004, p. 20). Moreover, according to Romanowski, a professor at the Center for Teacher Education at Ohio Northern University in Ada (2006), "homeschooled children can learn effectively and succeed in college without experiencing traditional forms of schooling" (p. 128). This shows that homeschooling is a perfect way to help the children be well prepared for university in the future. Not only can homeschooled children do just as well, but often they do better than traditionally schooled children. According to Dr. Rudner of the University of Maryland (1999), "students who had been home schooled their entire academic life had higher scholastic achievement test scores than students who had also attended other educational programs." Thus, the home school graduates can succeed academically at the university level. Moreover, Dr. Ray (2003, p. 3), reports that "over 74% of home-educated adults ages 18-24 have taken college-level courses, compared to 46% of the general United States population" (As can be clearly seen in Figure 2). Furthermore, Mc Reynolds (2007) states that "in 2001 Stanford University admitted 27% of its homeschooled applicants, nearly twice the acceptance rate traditionally schooled applicants" (p. 59-60). These statistics refute the people who say that students in homeschooling are not succeeding in their academic life. This is yet another reason parents choose homeschooling, to help their children reach high academic standards and prepare for college.
Figure 2: Educational attainment of the home educated and the general population. Depend on United States Census Bureau (2003, March 21) Retrieved from (Brian, 2003). Many people doubt homeschooled children's ability to socialize. They think that homeschooled students are isolated from the world. The research that Romanowiski found was that "92 percent of public school superintendents surveyed believed homeschooled children do not receive adequate socialization experience" (2006, p. 125). Fortunately, this misconception is not true. public school superintendents think that homeschooled children stay home most of the time and as a result they will be isolated. In contrast, many research studies show that homeschooled children have an ability to interact with others and they also have better social skills than traditionally schooled students. Medlin states that "despite the widespread belief that homeschooling is socially isolating, the research documents quite clearly that home-schooled children are very much engaged in the social routines of their communities" (2000, p. 112). A study by Dr. Ray (2003) found that homeschooled children are more involved in the communities. Ray (2003) stated that 71% participate in the social activities; for example, "coaching a sports team, volunteering at a school, or working with a church or neighborhood association," also they voted and attend public meetings compared to 37% of the others students in traditional school (p. 3) Moreover, homeschool graduates are more involved in politics. For example, they are contributing and they working for political parties. Also, "seventy-six percent of homeschool graduates surveyed between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four voted in a national or state election within the last five years, compared to only 29 percent of the relevant U.S. population"( Romanowiski, 2006, p.127). This statistic shows that that homeschoolers are not isolated. Furthermore, this information conveys that homeschoolers are participate more involved in society.
Through these community activities, homeschooled students learn to interact well with people of all ages as opposed to functioning well only within their own age group like students in public schools. According to Nelsen (1998) argues that homeschooled students "are more frequently exposed to a wider variety of people and situations than could be expected in a traditional classroom environment where their exposure is limited to twenty-five to thirty-five people of similar age and socioeconomic background" (p. 35). This could be a benefit for homeschooling. Galloway (as cited in Romanowski 2006) concludes that because "homeschooled students are not peer-grouped in school, they learn to get along with a variety of people, making them socially mature and able to adjust to new situations"(p.126). Not only are homeschooled students able to socialize but also the have a self-concept which also help them to interact with people especially if there are older than them. According to Romanowski (2006), "the majority of studies done on homeschoolers indicate that their self-concepts are comparable to and usually stronger than that of children in conventional schools" (p. 126). Interacting well within multiple age groups is a life skill that helps homeschooled students succeed in their future professional careers.
In conclusion, in the USA and worldwide, there are many different perspectives about homeschooling. Some parents homeschool their children because they want to spend time with them and do more extracurricular activities. Also, homeschooling helps children to avoid the influence of bad peers and other negative influences prevalent in today's society. Another common reason parents in the United States choose to homeschool is to ensure that their children have the opportunity to learn more about their family's religion and to live lives that follow within their religions morals. Homeschooling has been shown to have a positive effect on student's academic achievement; this is often due to a positive schooling environment. Because of the flexibility of a homeschooling schedule, homeschooled students can volunteer in their community, or join a sports team, allowing them to interact with numerous people of a variety of ages. These numerous benefits of homeschooling allow parents in the United States to decide to homeschooled their children.
