Food System in the United States
The U.S. Food System is comprised of many different factors all acting together in the interest of food accessibility and consumption. There are several factors that affect the U.S. Food system including: food suppliers, consumer demand, food accessibility, food prices, economic sustainability, nutritional and community value. While the U.S. food system does not show any signs of slowing down or experiencing any shortage in the near future, there have been many concerns particularly on the kind of food value it now encourages as well the practices and attitudes of consumers. Basically, there are two major arguments with the U.S. food system. First is that the current setup, which is dominated by commercially processed and packaged foods as well as supermarkets and other mass producers, offer good quality and economic choices very convenient to many consumers. However, on the other end of the spectrum, it is argued that the current setup of the U.S. food system is unhealthy, detrimental to local economies and cultural value of certain communities. As a support for the second argument, it is also proposed that through several local food movements, it is possible to solve the perceived challenges and create a better food system for the country (Pollan, 5). Basically, although Americans favor the current conditions of their food systems, local food movements present a good and beneficial alternative for the overall condition of the food system and the effects they bring to people
The time in human history particularly after the nineteenth and twentieth century ushered in a new kind of revolution that has considerably impact people's relation with food. Until that revolution, most people can only access food products which are available within their region. During the time before food was mass produced, nearly everything that is eaten and used for cooking come from producers within the area or just near the area. Only exotic products tend to come from other manufacturers and other places. Nonetheless, this has all changed. Previously, the daily food consumption of people depends on the kinds of food that are accessible to them. These food products are usually sourced locally but that trend has been broken already. Giovannucci and Pirog further supports this revolution and transition of food consumption and the shift in the system:
The immediate community was in touch with the condition of their foods through direct contact with the producers, and quality was relatively easily evaluated. Beyond basic techniques such as dehydrating, salting or smoking, very few foods were processed or packaged before the nineteenth century. Fruits and vegetables and even ?sh, small livestock, and dairy products typically traveled less than a day to the market. Many foods followed the rules of local seasonality. Produce in particular was only available during limited times of the year. Modern trade has overturned this seasonal relationship to food. At the physical level, the advent of faster, cheaper, and more frequent transport along with improved storage-where cold chains, chemical treatments, and improved packaging dramatically improved shelf life-enabled increased trade with far-?ung destinations (Giovannucci and Pirog, 8).
An increase in diverse communication with other cultures coupled with the greater global emigration ?ows that has taken over traditional products prompted or paved the way for a new kind of demand which not patronized distant products and those that are commercially produced elsewhere but are more accessible now. It is estimated that because of the developments in production and transportation, different produce in the United States can travel by as much as 1,500 on the average. The processing and packaging technologies which have also taken in control of many food productions have further strengthened the accessibility and marketability of other food products which are not local and even fresh. There are also now distribution centers so large corporations can easily penetrate markets even without properly establishing their units in the area.
One argument in support of the current U.S. food system is how Americans themselves consider the condition of their food system. According to the study conducted by the Kellogg Foundation, Americans have a comparatively positive view of the different aspects of their food system. For instance, packaged food companies and supermarkets rank third and first in terms of performance and in serving customers. Further, according to public perception, the grocery industry, restaurant sector as well as the farming and agriculture industries can be considered as the top five industries in the country. Unlike areas such as healthcare and energy, there is still no considerable call or public dissatisfaction which calls for the government's total intervention in the food system. In giving their own ratings to different industries, both packaged food companies and supermarkets were able to receive exceptionally high ratings. In fact, supermarkets were able to receive the highest rating of all the 21 industries that came under examination.
When it comes to the Americans, they do not consider their system of supermarkets and food supply as something problematic. According to the data from the Kellogg Foundation, there were around 92 percent of the respondents who indicated that supermarkets generally do well when it comes to serving their customers. This rating was comparatively higher than ratings made in the previous years. Additionally, nearly 42 percent believe that they can trust supermarkets particularly because supermarkets are generally honest with their services. Supermarkets gained the highest rating compared to 15 other industries evaluated as part of the study. More importantly, the Kellog Foundation study also revealed that there were only 8 percent of the respondents who believe that the government should regulate the supermarkets while 17 percent suggested that the industry should be less regulated. Packaged food companies in the meantime also recorded high rating with 83 percent of the respondents thinking that such companies were able to do a good job serving their customers. This is the third highest rating from the 21 industries that were rated and this was also a considerable increase from the industry's previous ratings. There were 23 percent of respondents who said that packaged food companies can be trusted. Only 24 percent thinks that the government should regulate the industry while 8 percent recommended less government regulation. The perceptions of Americans towards their food system are summarized as follows:
Table 1. Perceptions of Americans towards different industries.
Do a Good Job of Serving Consumers
In Percent. For people who agree with the statement.
Supermarkets
92
Computer hardware companies
84
Packaged food companies
83
Computer software companies
81
Airlines
80
Hospitals
79
Online search engines
79
Banks
78
Electric and gas utilities
75
Internet service providers
72
Life insurance companies
70
Online retailers
70
Telephone companies
70
Car manufacturers
66
Investment and brokerage firms
65
Cable companies
63
Pharmaceutical and drug companies
56
Managed care companies, such as HMOs
41
Health insurance companies
40
Tobacco companies
35
Oil companies
31
Source: Kellog Foundation.
The perceptions of Americans regarding their food system contribute to the argument that the U.S. food system is doing find and that the current setup is not problematic. However, this is not the case for some advocates of several food movements. Because of the positive response that Americans have towards their food system, advocates of local food movements note that more and more people are developing bad eating habits. The current practice and thoughts associated with the food system promote a kind of lifestyle that proves to be problematic in many different ways. The need to change the system can be further supported by the obesity statistics that have been plaguing the United for quite some time now. According to the Wellness International Network Ltd. the rate of obesity and other health concerns in the country is as follows:
* 80% of type II diabetes related to obesity
* 70% of Cardiovascular disease related to obesity
* 42% breast and colon cancer diagnosed among obese individuals
* Hospital costs associated with childhood obesity rising from $35 Million (1979) to $127 Million (1999).
In this light, it is argued that through the advocacy of certain local food movements, such trends could be changed and that the U.S. food system could be improved (ENC Today). There are many food movements which have been proposed in light of the problems and degrading quality of the U.S. food system. One of this is the slow food movement. The Slow Food movement is a type of grassroots movement that promises or seeks to change the way people look and patronize food. It is also argued that this type of movement has the ability to increase quality of the food products and even boost the economy and sustain the environment. ENC Today notes some of the benefits that can be associated with the slow food movement:
With the state of the economy making people more protective of their wallets, there may be financial benefits for those who refuse to give up quality for a more affordable option. Though may not necessarily be cheaper to buy local foods, purchasing directly from the producer means better value for the quality, as more cost goes into labor than transportation, according to Knight, who purchases food for his restaurant from 15 local farms.
The relation of buying products encouraged or sponsored under the slow food movement provides a clear explanation on why some of these food movements are extremely relevant to the U.S. food system now. The better value of the products cannot be denied specifically because the farmers are more focused on the quality of their products and their production as opposed to many commercialized food techniques where quantity and the lessening of costs comprise the main objectives of the companies. Seon Yoon further supports the potential of the food movements particularly the local food movement in bringing about desirable changes and impacts in the U.S. food system:
According to the Foundation for Local Food Initiatives, in the broadest terms, the advantages of a local food sector are community development, access to fresh produce, and producer ownership of product/process. Thus the concept of the local food sector encompasses the three dimensions of sustainability: the environment, economy, and society (3).
The effects of the food movements and their potential impacts cannot be denied especially now that the country is plagued with more concerns about health conditions, environmental conditions and the sustainability of the declining economy.
Bryan Walsh asserts the success of the food movements to be successful. He notes:
Before the political games, before worries about dead zones and manure lagoons, before concerns about obesity and trans fat, the food movement arose around a simple principle: food should taste better. Like their environmental brethren, foodies could be accused of trying to force people to eat their vegetables - but these vegetables are more than metaphorical: they are from a local organic farm and they're sauteed to perfection. The food movement has also directly jacked into that other great American obsession - health - in a way that distant concerns about climate change have largely failed to do. Thought, there's the simple fact that food is present in our lives in a way that endangered species or deforestation or Arctic melting simply aren't.
The advocacy of these food movements are also focused on presenting healthier options (Web Japan). Because the food products are locally manufactured and are all natural, the quality and nutritional value of the food is less at risk as opposed to commercial processing. In this way, because preservatives will be seldom used, the risk of causing health problems and even obesity is argued to be lesser.
Last but not least, it would still take quite some time before the U.S. food system can fully take on the suggestions of the food movements. Although there have been considerable changes when it comes to the patronization and reception of food products from such movements, commercialization has already been deeply enrooted within the society and the system that it is hard to fully gain control of a system where there is wide influence from large corporations and other manufacturers. It is a well known concept that large capitalists are not bound to bend that easily nor they easily forgo of trends which they have started have been increasingly proving to be very lucrative. Beside that, in order to completely pursue the idea of what these local movements have been pursuing, it is important to target each aspect of the problem. These include: attitude of consumers towards which food choices are in fact right for them, accessibility and prices of food products, nutritional value and economic impact. Each of the food movements should promote their impacts in terms of these aspects in order to become successful. Nonetheless, it cannot be denied that despite the challenges in the implementation and patronization of such local food movements, they have the potential to provide a better food system in the United States. Further, since Americans view their food system in such a positive way, eliciting change in behavior towards food consumption and patronization will come as a challenge. The public's perception often get shaped through a series of developments and completely overturning their good impression of the food system will not come off as easy particularly because consumers have already established a certain sense of trust towards their food system. People can start by examining their food selections more closely too. They should be more aware of what's available in their local food supply system and how these food products provide better and higher quality. The gradual acceptance of other food options aside from packed goods inside the supermarket should be able to make a difference in time.
