Video Games Cause Violent Behavior
In the past two decades, the level of reality has significantly increased in video games. Games that are played show real life scenarios. However the industry of video gaming within the past three years has shown more of a negative influence in society. There are two sides in this issue about video games; people who said video games have a positive influence they argue that is to get anger out. Also, they said other positive thing is that active video games, like Wii system and PS3 are good exercise. On other hand, people who said video games have many negative things, believe that video games can teach people aggressive behavior; like fighting, and killing. For example the story of Columbine High School massacre. This paper will show how violent video games have a bad influnceon people.
Some people say some violent video games are not a cause of violent behavior. They say violent video games have benefits for people who like play video game. The player can do get out of seats and play by moving their body that is called active video. Active video games and gaming systems most popular is Nintendo Wii: " Nintendo Wii: This gaming system uses a wireless controller that assesses a person's
Video Games Cause Violent Behavior P. 2
movement and position in space. According to Mark & Rhodes who's affiliated to Behavioral Medicine Laboratory when they said about active video games benefits "There is some evidence that people who regularly play active video games can improve different components of their fitness, particularly cardiovascular fitness." ( Mark, 2009, p.2)The authors show audiences the benefit of active video games which improve your fitness. Also, the player can do some exercises by playing active video games which help people preserve their health.
This lady does some exercises for fitness by active gaming system.( slipperybrick.com,2009)
On other hand, some people say some video games are a cause violent behavior and have bad influence for people. For example, make kids behavior more violent
Video Games Cause Violent Behavior P. 3
because they spend long time to play violent video games become aggressive According to Harding "About 90 percent of U.S. kids ages 8 to 16 play video games, and they spend about 13 hours a week doing so (more if you're a boy). Now a new
study suggests virtual violence in these games may make kids more aggressive in real life." (Harding, 2008, homepage) The author shows big numbers of U.S kids who spend long time a week to play video games which can be cause to bad Influences for example, make people more aggressive behavior.
Also, violent video games can be cause high blood pressure which cause aggressive behavior according to Hunsinger who is a researcher in health issues "excessive video game playing encourages a sedentary lifestyle that can contribute to high blood pressure ".( Hunsinger, 2011, p.4) The author shows audiences how play video games contribute to high blood pressure. Aggressive video games cause the blood pressure to rise which makes kids more aggressive.
Some people believe playing video games do not cause violent behavior, they believe violent video games can be a good way to take our anger out." A 2005 survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation included a survey of 1,254 children in Pennsylvania and South Carolina" (Olson, 2009, p.1) According to Olson "Almost half of boys we surveyed agreed that they sometimes played electronic games to cope with anger or distract themselves from problems.'Getting wrapped up in a violent game, it's good,
Video Games Cause Violent Behavior P. 4
'said one boy.'Cause if you're mad, when you come home, you can take your anger out on the people in the game. 'Another said, 'If I have a bad day at school, I'll play a violent videogame and then, it just relieves all my stress. If you ever got a bad test grade or had a fight with a friend or something, my advice would be [to] play a
violent videogame.'".(Olson, 2009, p.1) The author show boys' survey about video games and their opinion about video games, most of them said video games can be good way to get your anger out or relieve stress.
On the other hand, some people who say video games cause violence they think violent video games can teach their children bad habits such as hitting and kicking people and some bad behavior. According to Dr. Phil when he talks about children who play violent video games he said: "they do use more aggressive language, they do use more aggressive images, they have less ability to control their anger and they externalize things in these violent ways. It's absolutely not good" (Dr. Phil, 2009, homepage) he show when player learn some violent ways to get out their anger.
Some people say violent video games can teach people to fight and kill which those cause to big problems according to Vastag "The two Colorado teenagers who killed 12 students and a teacher at Columbine High School in 1999 spent endless hours blasting opponents in violent video games." ( Vatag, 2004, homepage)The author show audience how the violent video games can teach people killing which
Video Games Cause Violent Behavior P. 5
cause a massacre at that school because behavior aggressive which they got it from violent video games.
This play violent video game which let him know how to kill other (Mail Online.com, 2010)
Finally, there are two sides of the violent video games issue. The First side says violent video games have benefits for people who like to play video game. For example, video games improve fitness; the player can do some exercises by playing active video games which help player to preserve his health, some say that violent video games can be a good way to get anger out. The Second side says that violent video games have a bad influence on people who like play video game. for example, violent video games can teach people to fight and kill which can cause to big problems, and violent video games can also teach children bad habits such as hitting and kicking and encourage bad behavior, violent video games can cause high blood
Video Games Cause Violent Behavior P. 6
Pressure which cause aggressive behavior, violent video games can make kids behavior more violent because they spend a long time playing violent video games and become aggressive. Based on the connection between violent video games and aggressive behavior in children and people the negative effect for the people who playing violent video games.
Video Games Cause Violent Behavior P. 7
