In today's world of energy scarcity and environmental pollution have become worldwide problems. In our daily life, vehicles, power stations, factories and so on, almost everything needs energy. However, the traditional fuels such as oil, gas and coal are rapidly running out. Besides, the fossil fuels' pollution is also a difficult problem to solve. With the development of human society, nature has suffered from a big disaster. A large amount of animals have lost their habitat and died out. Hundreds of thousands of people have diseases that cannot be cured because of drinking polluted water or eating polluted food. How to deal with the issue? Energy reform is important and necessary. To exploit the green energy, to decrease the energy consumption and to reduce the use of raw materials are good way to solve the energy problem.
In order to make a thorough inquiry of the influence of fossil energy applications on environmental pollution, the scientists give the example of Turkey of how they face the high rate of economic growth and the pollution of the environment. Since 1990s, the world has witnessed the prosperity of the industrial development of Turkey. On the other hand, the prosperity of industry has also resulted in a huge energy demand and an enormous risk of the environment (U. Faiz, 213). A recent census shows that "Due to the rapid growth of the population and the new consuming attitudes developing as a result of the rising level of welfare, Turkey's energy demand is increasing rapidly at an average growth rate of 8% per year." (U. Faiz, 213) Furthermore, In 2001, carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels totaled about 50. 07 million tons. The fuel share of carbon emissions was oil 44.2%, coal 38.8%, and natural gas 16.9%. Environmentalists expected that by 2025, the total carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels to be 104 million tons in 2025. (U. Faiz, 213-215). Turkey's greenhouse effect will be more and more serious; meanwhile, it will affect many neighboring countries even all over the world.
Not only Turkey's industrial development excessively addict to the fossil fuels, America also face the problem, the former president Bush admitted that America is addicted to oil. In the energy conference, he pointed out that the oil addiction will lead a dangerous result to atmosphere. In the long term, it even weakens the economy's development; threaten the nation security and the healthy development of the young generation (Schweiger). One of the biggest problems is global warming. A group of Russian scientists emphasized that "if about 70 to 80 billion tons of CH4 or other carbon compounds, with 20 times carbon dioxide's beat trapping capacity per molecule, may soon escape into the atmosphere as permafrost thaws in Siberia. This release could trigger catastrophic increases in global warming" (Cillizza). Recently, a report stated that the Arctic has already lost 40 percent of its ice by volume, 20 percent by surface, drastically increasing absorption of solar heat up north as sunlight-reflecting ice vanishes. The region has warmed 5 degrees, largely a result of retreating ice. Greenland's glaciers are sliding toward the sea and calving twice as fast as they did 5 years ago. A study published in the peer-reviewed journal Science reported that 87 percent of 244 Antarctic Peninsula glaciers have retreated during the past 50 years (Cillizza).
Global warming affects many aspects of the echo-system. Besides, the industrial pollution has also resulted in increasing the rates of diseases. A survey published by American Cancer Society shows that approximately 10,400 U.S. children under the age of 15 years were diagnosed with cancer in 2007 (Perera, 988). Despite the fact that the data are lacking evidence to prove that there are some specific pollutants lead to the high rates of disease. Scientist already found out some air pollutants. For example, lead and mercury are known to contribute to the neurobehavioral disorders. Experts knew or suspected that some other pollutants such as fine particles, ozone, diesel emissions, and PAHs contributors to childhood asthma" (Jun-Na Sun). Moreover, Excessive use of chemical fertilizers can make crops carcinogenic, Industrial effluent lead to aquatic organisms become poisonous and decrease the quality of drinking water. Not just children are influenced by fossil fuel pollution, but everybody has the risk of suffering from the effect of contamination. Human and animal health will be seriously threatened by the industrial pollution. The reason why energy reform is significant is that it can effectively reduce the extent of the environmental pollution.
Nowadays? the resource consumption is excessive, the energy is exhausted, energy conservation is important and necessary. As states in the U.S. adopt new energy codes, it is important to understand the benefits for the carbon emission reduction and cost-effectiveness of conventional energy efficiency measures (Kneifel, 952). For example, because of the great proportion of energy consumption Chinese government chooses the energy conservation--Creating a conservation-oriented society as a practical way to balance the energy demand and supply. Therefore, it becomes a long term solution to promote energy conservation to solve China's energy and environment problems. The hardest part of the resource-environment problems is how to utilize energy efficiency, effectively analyze energy consumption mode and waste emission. "As for the measures to resolve these problems, at the policy level, policies and programs of Chinese government related to energy conservation were introduced in combination with China's circular economy structure. At the technical level, the key technologies and research progress to improve energy utilization efficiency, reducing energy consumption, as well as utilizing the resource of discharged wastes was reviewed(Xu, 4276)." There are three cases of the development of circular economy at three levels. First, namely the chemical industry; Second, metallurgical industry? Third and electric power industry; these three levels are studied for the enforcement of circular economy and energy conservation in China's process industries (Xu, 4274-4275).
Energy shortages and pollution are the main two problems. The energy reform can solve these two problems at the same time. Environmental experts indicate some major potential solutions to environmental problems are cleaner technologies, renewable energy technologies, and energy conversion technologies. Each solution would have a crucial impact on the environment in terms of the following: reduction in ambient pollution; decrease in emissions; decrease in waste sent to final disposal; reduction in energy consumption; and reduction in the use of raw materials (U. Faiz, 213). Because of the different circumstances in different countries, with appropriate modifications, these solutions can be applied to in different countries. For example, the reforms so far carried out in the Kenyan power sector have facilitated the development and implementation of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) renewable energy projects (Owino, Tom, and Tom Morton, 345).
Renewable energy technologies' exploitation seems to be a good measure. By now, governments worldwide are promoting the development of bio-fuels in order to alleviate the climate impact of using fossil fuels. Bio-fuels are produced from crops, such as corn and wheat. Many countries' policies promote the development of sustainable bio- fuel programs. As shown in right. From 2007-2009, including U.S.A, European, and China and many others countries' Ethanol production increased year by year. Development of bio-energy is trend of energy reform in the future. However , There are many opponents hold the view that developing bio-fuel has lower profit than fossil fuels or chemicals, usually rely on rainfall or abundant groundwater, or that use land with little or no economic or ecological value in alternative uses. There are also many people who disagree that by exploiting bio-fuel to solve the energy shortage. "The study focuses on developments in the US economy from 1980 onwards, when the earliest initiatives on bio-fuel promotion were undertaken. The transformation of the erstwhile food-feed competition with the introduction of fuel as a further use for grains has caused a new dynamics of adjustments between the different uses of grains. This tilts the distribution of cereal consumption drastically against the low-income classes and poses tougher challenges in the fight against global hunger. (Banerjee, Arindam, 532-533) " Although the arable land is limited, we can use other resources such as marine resources. Author Jun-Na Sun shows the category and unbalanced distribution of terrestrial and marine energy plants in the coastal zone, and points out five ways (biodiesel, bioethanol, methane, direct combustion and cell fuel) to utilize them (Jun-Na Sun). For example, China has to feed 22% of the world population but occupies less than 10% of global arable lands. Obviously, by using arable land to development of bio-energy use of was unrealistic. Therefore exploiting non-agricultural coastal land is imperative.
With the development of scientific and technological level, the use of energy technologies in the past was analyzed and applied to investigate the prospects of new energy technologies. Development and utilization of solar energy is another solution that should be used to address the energy shortage. Presently, the solar energy has been used in the last few years. However, the solar application is just used to generate heat and produce electricity. "A comparative study on the world energy consumption released by International Energy Agency (IEA) expected that by 2050, solar array installations will supply at least 45% of energy demand in the world (Mekhilef, Saidur, & Safari)." In recent few years, the solar engine is getting used in the industrial field and remarkably achieved highly praise. "The solar heater is an alternative to generate electricity, process chemicals or even space heating. It can be used in food, non-metallic, textile, building, chemical or even business related industries. On the other hand, solar electricity is wildly applied in the telecommunications, agricultural, water desalination and building industries to operate lights, pumps, engines, fans, refrigerators and water heaters.( Mekhilef, Saidur, & Safari)" The importance of using solar energy for a wide variety of applications is obviously. In addition, Due to technical limitations, energy experts still need to work on providing energy solutions by modifying the energy proportion, improving energy stability, increasing energy sustainability, conversion reduction and hence enhance the system efficiency (Mekhilef, Saidur, & Safari).
The use of nuclear also helps to alleviate the pressure of energy shortage and environmental pollution. "In some countries nuclear grew to around half of all electricity in less than just 10 years. Applying these empirical observations to new renewable and assuming similar growth conditions as for the old technologies, the share of renewable electricity could grow from its present 19% to 60% by 2050, which would drop the baseline CO2 emissions by 27%. The share of new renewable of all electricity would come up to 42 %" (Lund, 3577-3578) the results show that single energy sources have obtained quite a dominant position. For example, "In the USA, at one time, the oil as well as coal, each represented over half of all the yearly additions to energy capacity for more than half a century and reached a dominant position in overall energy production. Oil showed a similar dominance on a global scale (Lund)." For nearly two decades, nuclear power represented one third of all the new electricity added worldwide and over 60% in the countries possessing nuclear power (Lund, 3577-3578). Nevertheless, by now the use of nuclear technology is not ripe. Nuclear leakage is still a great threat to civil. Many nuclear experts are working on the safe use of nuclear energy, and soon after, it will be more stable and safe to apply the nuclear energy.
The topic of energy reform has been discussed for nearly a century. However, the economic development still relies on the traditional fossil fuels. The traditional fuels are running out rapidly. The severity of environmental pollution problem should be solved eagerly. The cleaner technologies, renewable energy technologies, and energy conversion technologies are beneficial to solve the energy-deficient and the protection of environment effectively. Energy reform is not only important but necessary.
