Should Alcohol be Legal in Saudi Arabia?
Saudi Arabia is one of the most important countries in the world. Saudi Arabia reached that position among countries for many reasons, such as oil, but they did not start work on domestic issues until King Abdullah became king in 2005. King Abdullah has made a lot of changes in Saudi Arabia rules. King Abdullah is trying to improve the country and make people live better than ever. However, alcohol is a subject that King Abdullah has never discussed or even given the chance for anyone to study the idea of legalizing. Legalizing alcohol is a subject of argument in Saudi Arabia. These sides are social, health, and culture.
Some people in Saudi Arabia believe that the Saudi government should legalize alcohol. These people want to legalize alcohol because they are drinker and they do not want to travel if they want to drink. Also, international companies want to legalize alcohol to get some for their foreign workers. Alcohol should stay illegal in Saudi Arabia because the Quran strongly shows how alcohol should be illegal.
People in general want to feel freedom and not see themselves as slaves. Nobody can meet all people's needs because people will never have just one opinion. Alcohol is one of the things that people have different opinions about. Some people think that Alcohol should not be legal in Saudi Arabia for many reasons. A confidential source, who will be called M.A., lives in Saudi Arabia as a citizen and works in King Fahad University as Professor. He does not want to allow alcohol in Saudi Arabia. According to M.A., "Alcohol can have many negative affects in the Saudi Arabia culture and give the possibility for crime to increase" (personal interview). M.A. Many people in Saudi Arabia agree with M.A. because they want to keep the society relatively crime free.
On the other hand, some people think that the effects of alcohol depend on the person so not everyone who drink alcohol will become a criminal. People who support legalizing alcohol say, since there are drinkers in Saudi Arabia, why does not the government allow it, because it is a personal issue. Even people cannot drink in Saudi Arabia legally they will drink outside Saudi Arabia. According to Alarabiya news channel, "Manama is the place to be for Saudis seeking to escape what is seen as the rigid laws of their country. The Bahraini capital offers a gamut of debaucheries from drinking and clubbing to prostitution, an illegal yet widely available industry" (Bahrain makes the, 2009). These people think they should be able to drink legally inside their own country instead of being criminals by Saudi Law.
The government has legalized alcohol for people who work for Saudi Aramco, which is a major source of revenue in Saudi Arabia. Within Saudi Aramco compounds people are allowed to buy and drink alcohol. A confidential source, who will be called T.A., is a Saudi citizen who worked for Saudi Aramco for fifteen years. T.A. said, "The Saudi Arabia government has allowed alcohol for Saudi Aramco because Saudi Aramco is the main oil company in Saudi Arabia and they use a lot of foreign workers to get the oil" (Personal Interview).
Saudi Aramco is the reason that most international companies want to legalize alcohol for their workers. The government has to be equal to all companies because that will make investors invest their money in Saudi Arabia. Legalizing alcohol can help Saudi Arabia to make many international companies work for the Saudi economy, which will help Saudi Arabia in many ways.
Alcohol can make many health side effects on human body. Most alcohol side effects appear in the long term and that is the reason most people do not care about these side effects. Alcohol can make brain damage, breathing may stop, heart disease, liver failure, intestinal cancer and many other side effects. Most people want to live more, but they do not work on that. People who want to live more have to care about their body system. Everyone body system have limit that cannot be cross. These side effects can kill the drinker, which will not only affect on the drinker is also will affect on the drinker's family.
Family is one of the most important things that alcohol can have side effect on. Alcohol can take over any family and destroy it. Alcohol can affect on the children in the drinker family. According to Bill Urell, that 28.6% of the children in the United States are affected by alcohol via member of the family. . According to Bill Urell, alcohol can make seven common problems for families. These problems are violence, marital conflict, infidelity, jealousy, economic insecurity, divorce, and fetal alcohol effect. These problems happened in the United States and they did many studies and research to solve these problem but they still having these problem. Saudi Arabia has to see the United States as an example and see the problems that alcohol would make in families.
Alcohol can affect on people and make them drive while they are drunk and that can make them killed. The United States has stated that that there is many car accidents happened in the US because the drivers are drunk.
Alcohols have many side affect on the Saudi traditional. One of these side affects is that alcohol can make some people irresponsible about their decisions. People in Saudi Arabia really consider any word they say and alcohol can affect that. Also, alcohol can affect on relationship because drinking alcohol is unacceptable in the Saudi society. Alcohol is not acceptable in the Saudi society because religion does not accept it.
Religion is what Saudi Arabia has been used to make laws. The Quran is the source for the Saudi constitution. Saudi Arabia is the only country that makes their constitution based on the Quran and that is one of the reasons make Saudi Arabia the most religious country for Muslims. The second reason is that Saudi Arabia has the most two holy places in their land, which most Muslims want to visit these places. The Quran has shown clearly that Muslims are not allowed to drink, sell or even have alcohol for their guests. It is written in the Quran:
"O ye who believe! Strong drink and games of chance and idols and divining arrows are only an infamy of Satan's handiwork. Leave it aside in order that ye may succeed. (90) Satan seeketh only to cast among you enmity and hatred by means of strong drink and games of chance, and to turn you from remembrance of Allah and from (His) worship. Will ye then have done? (91) Obey Allah and obey the messenger, and beware! But if ye turn away, then know that the duty of Our messenger is only plain conveyance (of the message) (92)."
Muslims have to obey what Quran tells them to do or not to do. That is why the Quran is one of the reasons Saudi Arabia does not allow alcohol. Saudi Arabia feels it is the only country that can protect Islam and Muslims. All Muslims around the world must come to Saudi Arabia at least once for Hajj. Saudi Arabia is an example for Muslim world. For that reason, King Abdullah will not even give people the chance to discuss legalizing alcohol.
In conclusion, the Saudi government has done a lot of work to make Saudi Arabia what is it now, a safe country with a strong Islamic culture. . Some people believe they should have the freedom to drink in Saudi Arabia but other believe it is against the Quran . The government have their reasons to make alcohol illegal, but modern life and the needs of international companies are things that the government has to consider. Alcohol should still be illegal in Saudi Arabia because legalizing alcohol could cause many bad effects and change the culture of Saudi Arabia.
