Do Video Games Lead to Aggressive Behavior?
Figure 1: Mortal Kombat
Source: http://www.flickr.com/photos/revo27/5556333898/
Although the first video games started in the early 1970 s, debate about violence and video games did not begin until the 1990s with the introduction of the first person shooter (Anderson, Gentile, & Buckley, 2007). Those games portray a realistic first person opinion which the player sees through the eyes of the main character. The player moves around, explores 3D environment and shoots different characters in the game. The goal of the first person shooter game is to make the player feel as if he or she is in the game and is the one who is fighting, killing, and being killed. Some of the most popular shooter games today are "Call of Duty" (see Figure 2), "Grand Theft" and "Americans Army ".
Most people enjoy playing video games because video games provide entertainment. Others play to relieve stress, or even in some cases, play to let out the violence anxiety within them. Video games, especially online gaming, can make people feel psychologically better and help raise their self-esteem (Griffiths, 2005b, 2005c). Research has shown that many gamers love the fact that playing games leads to time loss (Wood & Griffiths, 2007; Wood et al., 2007). Many would argue that this is more positive than drug using, drinking alcohol or other activities like gambling. In addition, simulated environments allow players to experiment with other parts of their personality, for example, gender swapping that would be difficult to do offline (Hussain & Griffiths, 2008). Early research showed that those children who played video games for a couple of hours a day were more likely than those children who did not play video games at all to have a wider circle of friends, engage in physical activities, and do their homework (Phillips et al., 1995). Furthermore, the main reason for playing online games is for the social element (Griffiths et al., 2003, 2004b; Cole & Griffiths, 2007).
Despite all these benefits, however, video game-based violence is very real and serious; it can negatively affect lives in a similar manner that drug addiction does when players become addicted to such games. Moreover, violent video game addiction has potential to create social problems in our community. Some people think that violent video games have little or no impact on children or young teenagers, indicating that most video-game players live completely normal lives. The weaknesses in this argument are almost too obvious: first, "most" is not "all" because there are some players who do not live normal lives. More importantly, just because a player does not immediately imitate specific violent acts found in video games does not mean the games will have no long-term negative consequence on that player's views and behavior. Because of this probability, parents should assume full responsibility for evaluating video games and should prevent young teenagers from purchasing those that are especially violent. I think that games that imitate military combat training not only encourage brutality but also totally ignore teaching players about restraint-one more reason violent games should be regulated because they expose young people to combat-style training without teaching them when to put nonviolent alternatives into play.
Today's children are more and more exposed to violence as the result of watching or playing violent video games. Violence is defined in video games as acts in which a character causes or attempts to cause physical injury or death to another character (Thompson & Haninger, 2001). There are many negative effects of video games on children such as making children aggressive, wasting their time, not wanting to do their homework or not willing to do their chores. People have many reasons that make them think violent video games are harmful for children. People who think video games are harmful think that video games cause violence and destroy children's minds. They think video games make children lazy. In their opinion, video games can affect children's life in a negative way. In this paper, I will argue that video games can lead to aggressive behavior in society and that parents should assume full responsibility to prevent their children from being more and more exposed to unnecessary violence.
First, a number of people including some authorities claim that playing a violent video game does present a threat to the user's psychological health. This is right because as early as 1983, Geoffrey and Elizabeth Loftus, in their book Mind at play: The psychology of video games, warned about the dangers of violent video games when they stated: "Although we can never be sure in any individual case, a substantial body of evidence indicates that viewing excessive violence on the screen is associated with aggression and violent behavior among children and teenagers" (p. 98). Anderson and Dill (2000) conducted two important studies that have measured changes in behavior and emotional responses to video games, ranging from "assertiveness" and "withdrawal" to "aggression", "anger, and hostility". The first study involved 227 college students, 78 males and 149 females in an introduction to psychology course at a large Midwestern university, who completed a measure of trait aggressiveness and reported their actual aggressive behaviors (delinquency) in the recent past. They also reported their video game playing habits. Anderson and Dill found that students who reported playing more violent video games in junior and high school engaged in more aggressive behavior. They also found that amount of time spent playing video games in the past was associated with lower academic grades in college. In the second study, 210 college students (104 females and 106 males from the same large Midwestern University) played either a violent (Wolfenstein 3D) or nonviolent video game (Myst). In this experimental study, the authors looked at differences between violent and non-violent video games among undergraduates. The participants were randomly assigned to play either a violent or non-violent game. They played "a competitive reaction time game in which they could punish their opponents by delivering a noxious blast of white noise (p .776)". A short time later, the students who played the violent video game punished an opponent (received a noise blast with varying intensity) for a longer period of time than did students who had played the nonviolent video game. The findings of these two studies illustrate that exposure to violent video game content can lead to aggressive behavior in game players.
Figure 2: Call of duty
Source: http://www.flickr.com/photos/mromar_2010/5059528878/
In addition, Silvern and Williamson (1987) compared levels of aggressive, imaginative, and prosocial behavior of 4-6-years-old children both before and after the children have played and watched violent video games. In this study half of the 28 participants (14 males and 14 females) played a video game and the other half watched the game being played. The results showed that video games increased aggressive behavior because the average of the aggression after viewing TV and after playing video game had almost twice the impact as in TV. So watching or playing video games can be dangerous for children because they might not know what they are doing. These results also confirm that exposure to violent video games correlates with aggressive behavior in players.
Second, playing violent video games badly affects psychological health by actually making players become addicted to these games. One of the most harmful influences video games have on players is the medium's remarkable ability to fixate a player's attention or, to borrow psychologist Sherry Turkle's term, its "holding power" (p. 30). Addictive reactions in the body can be related to some of the visual and aural signals found in video games-signals that cause the eyes, for example, to stop blinking for long periods. This phenomenon triggers the release of dopamine, a neurotransmitter thought by some to be the "master molecule of addiction" (Quittner, 1999). Is this chemical association the reason why 40 out of the 47 top-rated Nintendo games have violence as their theme (Cesarone, 1994)? The answer is most likely "yes" because without the flavor of violence, some games might not sell. According to a report in the New York Times, the very bestselling games are nonviolent (Miller, 1999). However, even without being top sellers, the violent games also sell well.
Furthermore, I think that games that imitate military combat training not only encourage brutality but also totally ignore teaching players about restraint-one more reason violent games should be regulated because they expose young people to combat-style training without teaching them when to put nonviolent alternatives into play. Repetitive conditioning such as "killing" cadences and unit songs as well as referring to people as "targets" helped to dehumanize the enemy in the video game player's mind. In fact, rather than teaching when and where to show restraint, the games and promotion for the games teach that violence can be fun. For instance, the game Resident Evil promotes violence as entertainment. The publishers of the game also invite players to "face your fear" using "a vast selection of weapons." The makers of Carmageddon and Grand Theft Auto III imply that preying on the defenseless is acceptable behavior: they market a game that involves killing helpless civilians. Even less violent games like Klingon Honor Guard appeal to the notion that violence carried out honorably is ennobling: ". . .you must fulfill your blood oath-become the ultimate warrior and exact glorious revenge . . ." (Klingon, 1998). Parents should not accept violence as entertainment in games-and they should not think that such violence can't affect the way their children view the world and other human beings.
There are many research studies showed that video games affect children's behavior. Many other reports concerning school violence cite video games as the cause of violent behavior in the school. For example, in 1999, two high school students shot and killed 13 other students before killing themselves at Columbine High School in Colorado. Both killers, Dylan Keloid and Eric Harris, were known to play a lot of violent video games including " Wolfenstein 3D," "Doom," and "Mortal Kombat (see Figure 1). These acts of violence showed that playing Wolfenstein 3D-a violent video games in which the player walks through a castle, armed with various weapons and tries to kill people-may cause violent behavior in players. In Wolfenstein 3D, the player assumes the role of an American soldier of Polish origin, named William "B.J." Blazkowicz, who tries to escape from the Nazi Castle Wolfenstein. After the first escape episode, the player carries out five other episodes also organized against Nazi operations. Throughout the game many armed guards, attack dogs, and mutant soldiers fight the player. The buildings traversed have health supplies such as food and medical kits, various treasures, and hidden rooms. There are four weapons (a knife and three guns) available throughout each episode for the player's defense.
Another violent game that may induce the player to carry out violent action is called Doom, a nine-episode science fiction horror video game in which the player takes the role of a space marine posted in Mars. The mission of the marine is to fight and kill all the enemies including Phobos, Deimos, and Hell itself. The game ends with the player entering Deimos and being overwhelmed by monsters if he or she is still alive.
Not so long ago in 2007, there was another school violence incident at Virginia Tech, in which Seung-Hui Cho killed 32 students and teachers before killing himself. Here again, the killer was said to be addicted to Counter- Strike, a massively popular team-based tactical shooting game that puts players in the heavily armed boots of either a counter-terrorist or terrorist.
More recently in summer 2011, Anders Breivik, a 33-year old man from Norway, is undergoing trial for killing 77 people last summer. Media say he was inspired by "Call of Duty", a violent video game in which two teams play online and kill each other using all kinds of weapons including helicopters, machine guns, and grenades.
These examples, although not exhaustive, illustrate the fact that violent video games may cause aggressive behavior and if parents are not aware of what games their children are playing, children can imitate the game character's violent behavior in real world. For all these reasons, I would like to suggest that:
* Parents check the content of the gaming activity by giving children and adolescents games that are educational rather than violent. Parents usually have control over what their child watches on television -gaming should not be any different.
* Parents encourage their children to play video games as part of a group rather than as a solitary activity. This will lead to children and adolescents talking and working together. Also, parents should be reminded that many online games are based on social activity and working together.
* Parents set time limits on their child's playing time. It is fine for children and adolescents to play for a couple of hours after they have done their homework or their chores.
* Parents follow the recommendations by the game manufacturers and/or the service providers (for example, sit at least two feet from the screen, play games in a well-lit room, never have the screen at maximum brightness, and never engage in gaming when feeling tired).
* Finally, if all else fails, parents temporarily prohibit gaming and then allow them to play again on a part-time basis when appropriate.
If all these suggestions are followed, it is possible to reduce the negative effects of video games on our children and young adults.
In conclusion, I have discussed the benefits and disadvantages of video games, but the disadvantages outweigh the benefits. This paper also showed that there is a diversity of opinions concerning the effects of video games on children and young adults. While some studies (Griffiths, 2005b, 2005c) showed that video games help players feel psychologically better and these games lead to time loss, others (for example, Anderson & Dill, 2000; Silvern & Williamson; Turkle, 1995; Cesarone, 1994) indicate that video game players can develop aggressive behavior that may lead to violence in society. The paper finally provided a list of suggestions for parents to help their children become safe players of video games and choose games that are more educational than violent in purpose.
