If human could pick one of my behaviors to change, it would be smoking because smoking brings huge damages for people. There are 1. 2 billion smokers in the world. This is one third of the global population. (Alter Net) According to the World Health Organization, approximately 3 million people die because of smoking. It is a huge number that makes innumerable families experience pain. Smoking is really unhealthy and brings many problems, including environmental issue and health problem. Of course, most people would think smoking is bad. However, this is a controversial problem whether smoking should be banned or not. Many people deem that smoking should not be banned. There are some reasons why they think so, such as tobacco brings large revenue to government, tobacco can makes a lot of employment and it is relate to issue of human right that many people express smokers have right to choose. In contrast, smoking should be banned because it is destroying health and environment.
First of all, there are some opposing viewpoints for banning smoking. The biggest problem that is many people regarding the human right, People say that they have the "freedom to choose." Then, tobacco brings huge revenue and income to people and government. According to table 1, it can clearly to shows the tobacco brings huge revenue to US government.
as we can see, The 2006 US tobacco revenue accounts for 10% in each state. It is a big portion of government revenue. However, there are many evidences can prove that banning smoking is more important than these.
Smoking brings a lot of illnesses to people. There are uncounted controversial topics in the world, why should regard to the issue of smoking, because it is already a big social problem that takes away many lifes of people. There is information shows that how damages to people "Preliminary Examination of Adolescent Spending in a Contingency Management-Based Smoking-Cessation Program" discusses global cancer deaths and total deaths from smoking. Suchitra Krishnan-Sarin discusses that on the basis of current consumption patterns, "approximately 450 million adults are going to dying by smoking between 2000 and 2050" (Times). At least half of these people will be dying between 30 to 69 years old. They will lose decades of their lives (Times). Moreover, I will give an example that is a true story which occurred around me. When I was in high school, my neighbor got lung cancer and I saw the all process from his illness to his death. That was frightening. Actually, he was a really heavy smoker, He always smoked two or more boxes of cigarettes every day. He found he got lung cancer because he was coughing all the time. The doctor took a picture of his lung, which is amazing, because it was totally black. At that time, he took many treatments of chemotherapy and he took many kinds of medications. Unfortunately, death was took away his life at last year. It was 3 years from his diagnosis to his death. Smoking really brings pain to people. However, there is an element of cigarettes that make it so difficult for people to quit smoking. My neighbor could not quit smoking even when he knew he got lung cancer. The "criminal" of smoking, the danger to people, is an element called nicotine.
Many people are known that smoking is slow suicide, but what happens lead to them to the inability to cannot quit smoking. Many smokers want to quit smoking and smoking gives them a lot of pain. But they cannot dominate themselves. The answer is easy it is a nicotine addiction. There is an article that can describes why nicotine can make people addicted. "How Does Nicotine Affect the Body?" Raul Cruz mentions that nicotine has many chemical elements which can affect the human body. When a person smokes, nicotine enters through skin, lungs and mucous to entire human body. It can change brain functions giving people a relaxed and invigorated feeling. Nicotine is a highly addictive element. Its effects on your body last between 40 minutes to a couple of hours. (Ezine Articles) these are the reasons why quitting smoking is difficult. However, banning smoking is difficult to smokers because the long use of nicotine addiction is a habit of the body. So if you are non-smoker do not to learn how to smoke, if you are a short-term smoker quitting smoking now is best way and the heavy smokers had better to go to hospital and makes a plan of quit smoking. I think many people do have a question about how smoking is bad for the human body why do they start smoking, and do they want to be in poor health?
A convincing argument can be made that smoking is really bad for body. The reasons why people start smoking are very confusing. There is an article that talks about why people start smoking. The author, Todd Flemming, mentions that the onset of smoking is usually in young people who are teenagers. There are several reasons why young people start smoking. One of the reasons is peer pressure that they face pressure from friends who want them to try smoking. another reason is that some teenagers start smoking is that they are often idol crazy. They usually want to imitate their idol, and they think he is very handsome or beautiful. Another reason to start smoking is the environment in which children grow up. They may have parents, siblings, or some older friends who are smoking, and they deem that smoking is the symbol of adultness. Furthermore, many young people pick up cigarettes out of curiosity. Even more children start smoking out of rebellion from their parents. They may have some conflicts with family, and smoking is their way of asserting control (Ezine Articles).
The author gives in detail point of why young people start smoking. I totally agree with author's opinion. I started smoking in tenth grade. The author said some young people who facing pressure from friends who want them to smoking. When I did not smoke my smoking classmates always wanted give me a cigarette. At the beginning, I always refuse them. Then they will say some words that are tempt you and belittle you. Such as, come on just trying will not make you addicted or you do not know how to smoke are you baby? Long time after, most people who are usually tempted eventually try and pick up their first cigarette. In addition, when I was young I do not think that smoking is damagful for health because my parents both smoked. At the beginning, someone gives you the cigarette, but after several weeks you want to buy cigarette your own pack. If so, you have started smoking. These are main reasons why young people start smoking. However, the damage of smoking is not only for smokers, it also is dangerous for non-smokers. Because of second-hand smoke
There are six illnesses already acknowledged in academic field about second-hand smoking, including lung cancer, coronary heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, dental caries, cataracts and affect fetal development (C-P, Wang). However, more and more the people who focus on the ban of smoking want to protect their rights that smoking is also damage for non-smokers. Most of non-smokers are hate smoking because non-smokers do not like smell of cigarettes, but they probably do not know that smoke fog is also damaging to their body. However, there are innumerable non-smokers who suffer of second-hand smoke. There is an article which talks about second-hand smoking in six counties in China. The result of survey is surprizing, "The prevalence of household second-hand smoke exposure and its correlated factors in six counties of China" (EBSCO). The investigators research the affects second hand smoke in families. There are total of 8,142 non-smokers (age18-69) in the data analysis. The result of the survey in 8,142 non-smokers, the household second-hand smoke present rate is 48.3%. In 3,165 families which have smokers, "87.2% of respondents said that smokers usually smoke in front of them." In 2124 families with smokers and children, "76.5% of respondents report that smokers are smoke in front of their children." As many as "42.1% of smokers give cigarettes to their guest, and only 46.8% of respondents ask smokers to smoke outdoors." Moreover, there are only 6. 3 percent who are supporting banning smoking(C-P, Wang). This survey reflects that plenty of non-smokers are aware of the effects of second-hand smoking damage. It has bad effects for people. So banning smoking is good for smokers' health and also has benefits to non-smokers. Smoking is damage to health, but smoking also makes your skin aging.
There are certain evidences claims that smoking makes skin aging. Nobody wants to be older face when they are only 30 or 40 years old. If you care about your features, you should quit smoking. There is an article which focuses on smoking and skin aging. The author mentions that the effects of smoking on skin aging have been recognized for a long time. In 1965 first research identified smoking makes skin aging, it was named 'smokers face' - gray, pale and wrinkled skin. According to research, it is not just smokers' skin aging, no matter if you are smoker or others are smoking, you face will suffer the same symptoms of smoker's face (Simplyantiaging). Furthermore, the article also discusses about there are four ways makes skin aging. First, smoking limits blood flow through the capillaries, it block to skin to require nutrition. Second, "smoking increases production of an enzyme which breaks down the supply of collagen to the skin's structure." Collagen is the element that makes skin has elasticity. Third, smoking reduces the vitamin A supply to skin. The vitamin A is to protect skin damages. Last, smoking also reduces vitamin C supply to skin. The vitamin C is antioxidant of skin protection. Convincing evidences can make that smoking affects skin aging. So banning smoking can makes you keep young. The last argument that I want to prove smoking is bad for people is the environment problem.
Smoking brings huge pollution to environment. The cigarette butt is small it product half of rubbish in US. People always focus on smoking is damaging to health, but people are ignoring the pollution by smoking. According to article "How Smoking Affects our Environment", Jessica Taylor-Cassan mentions that cigarettes including over 4000 chemicals which are exhaled and released into the air and the atmosphere. Cigarettes also pollute to the land and the water. Millions of cigarette butts are thrown onto the land every day. In California, almost half of the garbage the government clears up is cigarette butts. Also in the dry weather, cigarette butts make many fire hazards. In addition, the tobacco is a fragile plant which needs to be sprayed with huge harmful pesticides and chemicals. The product of cigarette boxes also needs to cut plenty of trees and waste a lot of water towards prodection. It is extremely harmful to the environment (Aboutmyplanet). government can appeals that more and more people may focus on smoking pollution and to appeal to people to quit smoking and protect the Earth. However, there are ways to solve these problems of the harm smoking causes people.
Nowadays, many countries make laws to stop people smoking in public. This is a really good method to control people quit smoking. Banning smoking in public places can effectively reduce the amount of smokers, because smokers can reduce the amount of cigarette smoke first. In addition, banning smoking in public places can improve smoking awareness. The smoker can think about the governments ability to make smoking limited in consideration of health, because their smoking in public affects a lot of people, such as second-hand smoking and causing others to smoking. There is news about result of ban smoking in public. According to "Do Smoking Bans Really Get People to Quit?" Washington, mentions that banning smoking in public reduces the sales volume of cigarettes. For example, In New York City, the number of adult smokers reduces 500,000 in four years, because of smoking bans in restaurants, bars and offices. In San Francisco, banning smoking in public reducing lung cancer by six percent (abcnews.com). Many people change their life because of the ban of smoking in public. But appealling to more and more countries to make law to ban smoking in public can cause the same result. In addition, although many countries are ban smoking in public, but it is not comprehensive banning. For example, in Las Vegas, many people smoking in casino and children walk in there. This was a bad impact on the influenced children in the casinos. So if governments should ban smoking in all of public places, it will be more effectively. However, increasing the tax on cigarettes is also a good method for ban smoking.
Some tobacco manufacturers do not want the government to increase the tax on cigarettes, because they will lose a lot of customers. However, increase of the taxes of cigarettes can help people to quit smoking. There is information about effects of increasing the tax of cigarette. The author Myron Johnston said that increasing tax of cigarette is better than any tobacco policies to reduce smoking rate. There is a study claim that increasing the price of cigarettes by 10 percent will reduce the number of smoking adults of adult. Also increasing the price by the same amount will reduce more than 350,000 youth smokers to quit smoking. (Johnston) There is a simple table that clearly shows that increasing the price of cigarettes can reduce the smoking rate.
Table 1: cigarette consumption and price in the US.
In table 1, the cigarette consumption is changing by retail price. Thus if governments can increase the tax, the smoking rate must be reducing. On the other hand, no matter if they ban smoking in public or increase the tax of cigarettes, these are passive methods to reduce the smoking rate. However, the most important is improving education with children is the active method to reduce smoking rate permanently.
Any solutions to ban smoking are going to restrict people to quit smoking. Only education can make people conceptually deem that smoking is really bad for people. The author Meg Riordan mentions that school is a uniquely powerful place to impact the problem of smoking, because children spend a third of their waking time in school, or about 135 hours per month. So improving the awareness of anti-smoking in school can effectively reduce the smoking rate. (Riordan) The children have accepted this concept, so if schools give good education to them, that must have effective results. Schools should build an organization that shows students the damages of smoking. Furthermore, schools should have some activities to encourage students far away from smoking. For example, students can supervise each other. Schools can also give some award to the students. If people can focus on education in children it will have an amazing result. However, these are benefits to quitting.
The quit smoking can gives people healthy life. According to "Stop smoking center", after quit smoking for 20minutes, the blood pressure drops to normal; 3 days after of quit smoking, bronchial tubes start to relax, making breathing easier; after 1-3 months of quit smoking, lung function increases up to 30 percent; 5 years after the quit smoking, the risk of developing mouth, esophageal, throat and bladder cancer reduces by 50%; 15 years after quit smoking, the risk of developing lung cancer is the same as non-smokers ("Stop smoking center"). This data can clearly to express that there are so much benefits of quit smoking. So quitting smoking can gives you happiness. Even if it is very difficult.
Overall, Smoking affects many people, no matter if you are a smoker or a non-smoker, it will impact tour life. There are many problems of smoking, including death by smoking; nicotine affects health; young people smoking; second-hand smoking; smoking and skin aging and smoking affects environment. The solutions of reduce smoking are ban smoking in public; increasing tax of cigarette; education in children and to propagandize the benefits of quit smoking. I hope that smokers can quit smoking to get a healthy life and it also will benefit everyone else everyone. I believe that if you have the will power the quit smoking it will not be hard.
Work Cited
"Benefits of Quitting". Stop smoking center.
http://www.stopsmokingcenter.net/program/education.aspx
Cruz Raul. "How Does Nicotine Affect the Body?" Ezine Articles.
http://ezinearticles.com/? How-Does-Nicotine-Affect-the-Body?&id=731021
Flemming Todd. "Why do young people start smoking?" Ezine Articles. April 09, 2009
Johnston Myron. "INCREASING THE FEDERAL CIGARETTE
TAX REDUCES SMOKING". Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. September 17,
1981. April 13, 2009
Riordan Meg. "HOW SCHOOLS CAN HELP STUDENTS STAY TOBACCO-FREE" Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, February 7, 2011
Suchitra Krishnan-Sarin, et al. "Preliminary Examination of Adolescent Spending in a
Contingency Management-Based Smoking-Cessation Program." Journal of Child &
Adolescent Substance Abuse 19. 4 (2010): 335-342. Academic Search Complete.
EBSCO. Web. 9 Mar. 2011.
"Smoking and skin aging". Simplyantiaging.
http://www.simplyantiaging.com/820/smoking-and-skin-aging/
Taylor-Cassan Jessica. "How Smoking Affects our Environment".
Aboutmyplanet. August 29th, 2007
"The Tax Burden on Tobacc," 2007; USDA Economic Research Service; Us. Bureau of Labor Statistics
Wang C-P. "The prevalence of household second-hand smoke exposure and its correlated
factors in six counties of China." Tobacco Control 18. 2 (2009): 121-126. Academic
Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 19 Mar. 2011
Washington. "Do Smoking Bans Really Get People to Quit?" abcnews. Nov. 8, 2005
