From the young to the middle-age, Getting married is a big decision, and it isn't just about making lifelong commitment to your partner: Marriage is a legal contract. When people get married, they not only accept rights and benefits but also take legal and financial obligation. This has raised controversial issue whether getting married or being a single: does it necessary to be married? Numerous studies show that getting married is necessary as the benefits of marriage are much bigger than bachelordom. Other studies have found that cohabitating couples are not better than marriage.
Someone might argue that cohabitates make their relationship like a marriage. While there eight times as many cohabitating couples in 1990 census as in 1990 census, which shows that marriage and living together are not the same. Studies have found that cohabitating couples are less likely to be sexually faithful, to support each other emotionally and financially, and to manage their money as well. In a couple who live together, one can spend extravagantly, while the other says little about it so long as the bills are paired. On the other hand, in a married couple, if one spends too much, the other may have plenty to say about it. Other studies have found that Cohabitating couples are also less likely to monitor each other's health, remind one to go to the dentist, prepare healthy meals, and speak up about unhealthy behaviors like drinking, smoking, and reckless driving. They also do not specialize in different areas, since they know the relationship could end without strings.
Some people might think that two can live as cheaply as one. It isn't completely true. Couples can organize there money well as cheap as one and half persons. Actually, this means that couples share furniture, food, insurance and welfare, automobile, etc. Moreover, when a person become sick, need emotional support, or loses her or his job. Pressure, the spouse is helpful. People will get a lot of benefits, such as home nurse, credit card debt, and therapists cost. (Riched Niolon) Married man has more successful work, more promoting, and more often accept higher performance evolution. As for women, white married women (no children) income above 4% more; black married women earn 10% more than their single peers. Although some point out that married female (37 hours per week)is longer than single women (25 hours per week), which is due to children.
There are benefits to marriage life. Married man can live longer. A single man's mortality rate is 250% higher than married man. Single women have mortality rates that 50% higher than married women.(Maggie et all,2009). A spouse can reduce your risk for dying from cancer as much as knocking ten years of your life. But single people spent more time in hospital, and have a hasher risk of dying after surgery. Comparing with single women, Married women are 30% more likely to rate their health as excellent or very good. Based on figures, nine of ten married men and women alive at age 48 are alive at 65, while only six of ten men and eight of ten single women make it to 65 .(Riched). Married men may have better immune systems as well, either from support or from nagging to monitor blood pressure, weight, cholesterol, etc. and may be at less risk to catch cold.
Otherwise, sex is more emotional among the marriage people. About 40% of married people have sex twice a week, compared to 20%-25% of single and cohabitating men and women. Comparing with 30% of single women, over 40% of married women said their sex life was emotionally and physically satisfying. For men, it's 50% of married men are physically and emotionally contents versus 38% of cohabitating men.
In other studies, this shows that marriage people have better mental health than single people. Because that married men are half as likely to commit suicide as single men, and one third as likely as divorced men. Widowed men under 45 are nine times more likely to commit suicide as married men ( Smith). Married people report lower levels of depression and distress, and 40% say they are very happy with their lives, compared to about 25% in single people. Married people were half as likely to say they were unhappy with their lives. Another studies show that single men drink twice as much as married men, and one out of four says their drinking causes problem. Only one of seven married men says the same. One out of six single men abstains from alcohol, but one in four married men do (Miller).
One the other hand, According to the U.S Bureau's graph, over the past 35 years, American marriage seems to have become more vulnerable; 7.5per 1000 people get married, 3. 6 per 1000 people get divorced, This seems to prove a traditional argument, that is : since the 1970s, among the United States' every two cases, 50 % eventually get divorce. These let us think deeply.
Waite and Gallagher believe the answer is no. Cohabitators are expecting the same rights as the married, poor families are penalized for marriage, and liberal attitudes toward single parenthood, divorce, and cohabitation are at fault partially. Also to blame are professionals who make divorce more acceptable and staying together to work out problems seem less important. Family lawyers aren't much help either, and no-fault divorced may be an "easy out" for one person to make a unilateral decision to end the marriage. They add that fears of divorce also destabilize the marriage, by weakening the commitment and investment of each person.
In conclusion, Marriage is necessary as the benefits of the marriage are much big than being single, especially that better commitment, longer life, better sex, better mental health. Although today's society has a high divorce rate, if people manage their marriage well, they will get a lot of happiness and benefits.
