A More Humane Way to Kill?
If someone in your family was killed by a crazy person or an angry person because of something trivial, do you feel it is fair for him to live the rest of his life in prison or does he have to die as wellbecause of what he did to the victim? Many countries are still using the death penalty as punishment for some crimes, but because of the existence of human rights organizations, some countries tried to change the manner of the execution to a more merciful way. For example, some states in the USA started using lethal injection instead of the electric chair or hanging; the states who start using lethal injection are Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, and many more (DPIC). The Lethal injection, is an implementation of the death penalty where people are injected with doses of substances that lead to death and can be used in euthanasia and suicide, is a means of execution used in several countries(capitalpunishmentuk). In spite of the fact that this death is more merciful than other methods of execution, it is rejected in some states because of the lethal injections side effects but there is no conclusive evidence to substantiate the statements of opponents. Some people consider other methods of execution to be better than lethal injection, and this shows that there are two trends in the manner of the execution: Lethal injection show whit strong evidence according to Deborah Denno," To me, it seems like the more humane choice,"(fordham) This indicates that some thinkers see in this way more humane than other methods of execution.
One of the reason sthat make some people support using the lethal injection is that it is a more modern way than other older methods used in the execution, and some people also considered lethal injection is a gentler method of killing humans (aintnowaytogo). Therefore, after using lethal injection for the first time in 1982, it became used more than any other method in the execution of criminals, where they use the lethal injection with more than 156 out of 161 criminals since 2000(aintnowaytogo). Since most of the state's 36 out of 42 executions by lethal injection was adopted as a formal method of use it means convinced that States, that it is a better way than other old ways like hanging and shootins to dead in same time the old method still used be some of the states who adopted the lethal injection method. If it refused to use these mandates old ways this is proof that it was flawed and not valid at all, according to Deborah Denno, a professor of law at Fordham University(aintnowaytogo). According to Denno "states would be admitting the methods were flawed in the first place if they were removed"(aintnowaytogo), points out that if states remove the old ways of execution and one of the is hanging, shows they were wrens in the first place. The general idea of ? the American people is that lethal injection is better than other method of old culling is hanging, This is mentioned in one of the electronic newspapers, that lethal injection is more common, and that there are those who advocated such as priest chaplain in Texas who has witnessed almost 40 executions say "as humane as any form of death you can find. Basically, they go to sleep."(about) They used to execute prisoners it have been using this method in 1850 in both Germany and the United English (listverse).
Hanging-picture A
This was a common method of execution used by the Nazis. This way was leading to a slow death, and severe pain (listverse). In the outcome of a vote, that 60 percent of the 1000 people voted to support lethal injection, while only 8 percent voted for the death so penalty electric chair.
Lethal injection the most common because is mostly believed that there was no pain at the death and that supported by the majority. When the death sentence was re-resolved in the United States in 1977, Oklahoma State was looking for a new way, rather than the electric chair, which was basically abandoned (capitalpunishmentuk). Dr. Jay Chapman suggested in 1977 to use the lethal injection as a new method of execution the lethal injection was adopted by Dr. Stanley Deutsch the Chairman of Department of Anesthesiology, Faculty of Law at the University of Oklahoma Medical (capitalpunishmentuk). The lethal injection was adopted in 1977, and Dr. Deutch described the lethal injection when he said the drugs are injected and drip into a vein leading to the fast and painless death. Dr. Stanley Deutsch says "Having been anaesthetized on several occasions with ultra short-acting barbiturates and having administered these drugs for approximately 20 years, I can assure you that this is a rapid, pleasant way of producing unconsciousness,"( capitalpunishmentuk). So what makes lethal injection less painful is the combination of drugs used in the injection. There are three types of drugs that are used in succession: first is Sodium thiopental, a drug used to numb the entire body and the percentage of the dose given to the offender in itself is enough to kill him; second is paralyzing agent, Pancuronium bromide, also known as Pavulon, a muscle relaxant as well as paralysis of the diaphragm and lungs which caused the cessation of breathing; last is Potassium chloride which is used by intravenous injection to cut off all electrical signals, which leads to heart attack and is not used in all States(howstuffworks). After a minute or two minutes of the last dose of the drugs the medical technician declares that the perpetrator is dead. The execution takes 30 minutes and this includes the prisoner getting out of the jail and going to the execution chamber( howstuffworks). The lethal injection shows that with each of these drugs is the least painful method (slate).
Manner of the execution by lethal injection
We see the evidence of how the prisoner does not feel a lot of pain because of the injections based on what some people think.
Some people are against the lethal injection and they think the old way is better. Some of those who are against lethal injection, but who support the penalty, believe that they should not be forgotten all of the penalty methods shot, hanging and guillotine because it was one of the most effective means of execution. The old ways of execution used as punishment is not a civilized way to execute a prisoner, because some people thought that they must come down tougher on punishment of the perpetrators of crimes, but do not provide them with civilized methods of execution(jehsmith).
There is objection from some people to lethal injection because of the costs. The lethal injection cost an estimated $ 17,000 and these costs include both of the team that works in the execution of a prisoner, and also the phone to connect with the media, also the costs of drugs used in the injection of a prisoner (state.oh).
Opposition to lethal injection they have reasons, one of the most powerful objected to them is what said about that lethal injection is less pain or no pain at all. But the truth is what recently discoveredthat the lethal injection caused a lot of problems, includingthe implementation team are unable to find the righ vein and that because of incompetence; Or because the mixture of the drugs or the concentration is incorrect, which leads to the opposite result. Also there is another reason to reject the lethal injection of some people that because most of the prisoner often does not interact with the drug (amnestyusa).
The solution in this situation is to find a drug with a strong effect and less side effects. Some countries in Europe stopped sending the old drugs to the US. These countries found new drugs called sodium thiopental that are less painful than the old drugs (huffingtonpost). Also the government should choose an executioner who understands how to administer the drugs. For example, the government could appointment a doctor to do this job because he knows well about the drugs since it is his profession and he has studied about them for many years. A doctor will take care in administering the lethal injection because he knows a lot about it. On the other hand, a randomly selected person who lacks the knowledge for giving the drugs may cause extra pain for the prisoner. This is because they do not have any knowledge or background about the lethal injection.
Overall, The subject of lethal injection the most important topics were put forward in the arena of media, and that because of what this piece have of contradiction in the validity or non-health. Lethal injection is the injection method more humane than other old methods of execution. Also the people who against lethal injection and that because of their negative effect in many ways. Overall lethal injection lethal injection is one of the more humane methods in all respects because of the positives more than others from the old ways, such as hanging or death by firing bullets.
Sources
Austin , Cline. "Lethal Injection: Easier for the Condemned or for the Executioners? (Book Notes: Who Owns Death?)." About (2006). 2 May 2011. <http://atheism.about.com/b/2006/08/21/lethal-injection-easier-for-the-condemned-or-for-the-executioners-book-notes-who-owns-death.htm>.
"Barely Lethal." slate (2006). 6 Apr 2011. <http://www.buyprisonart.com/Death_Penalty.html>.
"Death Penalty." buyprisonart n. pag. Web. 6 Apr 2011. <http://www.buyprisonart.com/Death_Penalty.html>.
"Detailed Fiscal Analysis." lsc.state.oh <http://www.lsc.state.oh.us/fiscal/fiscalnotes/124ga/hb0362in.htm>.
Deborah, Denno. "Shoot Me Now." Fordham Univrsity (2010). 2 May 2011. <http://law.fordham.edu/18492.htm>.
"How Lethal Injection Works." howstuffworks (2010). 6 Apr 2011. <http://www.howstuffworks.com/lethal-injection4.htm>.
"Lethal Injection ." capitalpunishmentuk (2010). 5 Apr 2011. <http://www.capitalpunishmentuk.org/injection.html>.
"Lethal Injection and Other Fashion Trends." jehsmith (2006). 6 Apr 2011. <http://www.jehsmith.com/1/2006/07/lethal_injectio.html>.
"Lethal Injection." amnestyusa (2011). 6 Apr 2011. <http://www.amnestyusa.org/death-penalty/lethainjection/page.do?id=1101012>.
"Methods of Execution." Death Penalty Information Center 2006. 4 Apr 2011. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/methods-execution>.
WELSH-HUGGINS, ANDREW. "Lethal Injection Drug Discontinued By Sole Manufacturer ." Huff Post News 1-21-2011: n. pag. Web. 2 May 2011. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/01/21/death-penalty-lethal-injection- drug_n_812267.html>.
