People are facing a fact that our society is developing so fast that people use a great quantity of oil and fossil fuel. When people develop industry they also bring great strain to energy. Many years ago, some countries and areas even had conflict because of the usufruct of oil. Every country is aware that energy security is a global issue. So entire world is appealing to adhere to create policies that promote sustainable development now and in the future, and as the core issue of energy security, the depletion of oil and other important fossil fuel is considered primarily by most countries and areas. Oil is a kind of non-renewable energy, and people use it in abundance and bring some waste at the same time, so when facing the fact of the vast depletion of oil and the imbalance between supply and demand of oil, considering is not enough and people should think about cutting down the usage of oil. In the meantime, they should try to change the structure of energy usage. A feasible choice is to use renewable and alternative energy, like bioenergy, geothermic energy, hydrogen power, hydropower, solar power and wind power. This kind of energy is economical, pollution-free and renewable. People will not be worried that if the renewable and alternative energy will pollute the environment or be overused, and they can benefit a lot from this kind of energy. Besides, the renewable and alternative energy can offset the imbalance if the usage of oil is cut down. So it is necessary and beneficial for people to think about cutting down oil usage and enable the renewable and alternative energy on a large scale.
Background Information
The importance of oil can be presented by the Middle East War. The struggle for oil is a historical issue since 1300 years ago. The countries located in Middle East struggled for the control of oil because the oil reserve is substantial and it can bring economics benefits. One of the most effective events is in October, 1973, the fourth Middle East War between Israel and Egypt broke out, and the countries belong to the areas implemented oil embargo for more than four months (Steve, 2003). They rejected to transport oil to western countries. It led to the most serious Global Economic Crisis after the World War II. The price of oil soared by 70%, the unemployment rate grew to 9.2% and the industrial product of America declined 14%. The production reduction, embargo and price pushing implemented by the Middle East countries, affected the entire world. They led to all of the industrialized countries face the negative growth of industry and depressed the western countries' economy seriously. The negative effects did not fade until the end of 1975 (George C. 2001). So the world began to face the global struggle for oil since this event and oil became the nerve of economy and affects it at any moment.
This event warned that to level off economy and industrial development, western countries should break the oil monopolies by Middle East countries and found oil stores in case the countries who control the oil cut off the supple. Not only for western countries, it is also necessary for the whole world to found oil stores and think about the future of oil usage. A better way is finding new energies to substitute oil.
The Fact of Oil Usage
It is well known that oil is a kind of non-renewable energy. The reserve of oil is limited and it plays an important role in industrial production. With the development of the society, the growth rates of population rise, so the demand of oil and some byproducts produced by oil rise too by the increasing of population (The essential editors, 2010). The important role and great demand quality signifies that people cannot use oil to support the development of industry permanently. Facing the abundant using and waste of oil, someday the oil will be exhausted and people have to think about the solutions to face the fact of energy shortage. It is the responsibility for not only the contemporaries but also the descendants to consider energy security. Thinking about the development long-term, people are trying to find new energy to replace oil before it is overused.
People's dependence on oil is apparent. Oil is a kind of valuable energy because it can support the power to help industry and produce a variety of byproducts which are used in many different aspects of life. So oil makes a significant contribution to the development of industry and people have really benefited a lot from it. That is also the reason that people use oil substantially and widely.
Nevertheless oil also has some disadvantages. The biggest problem for people from oil usage is the pollutions which are mainly presented on air pollution and water pollution. People use abundant of oil in various fields every day, so it cannot be avoided that oil has some bad effects on environment. Vehicles are a big user of oil. With the widespread application of vehicles, the exhausts of vehicles affect air quality seriously. Actually most of time, oil must be burnt to unleash the power, so when it is burnt, it will produce much particulate matter and lots of harmful gases, like carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (Anup Shah, 2009). In those kinds of gases, carbon dioxide is a kind of greenhouse gas which can cause greenhouse effect and lead to global warming, and other gases which are deleterious and harmful to health. When people breathe in those gases, they may get sick, like respiratory disease and lung diseases, even cancer (Anup Shah, 2009). Besides, those gases can cause acid rain which will destroy agriculture, forestry industry and aquaculture and bring economic loss. They will also destruct the structure of Ozone Sphere and lead to ozone holes which will endanger the creature (Anup Shah, 2009). So based on so many disadvantages, Air pollution becomes a pressing problem by degrees.
At the same time, water pollution caused by oil also becomes more and more serious. People commonly transport oil by seas and sometimes they may encounter oil spilling which will polluted large-scale of ocean and lead to the death of many marine organisms. For instance, once the sea fowls, elephant seals, whales or other kinds of sea animals tainted by oil, they will be pinned down by the oil until they die. Even if some animals can evade death, they still cannot avoid living in the polluted water area and the harmful substance released by oil will be bad for them and their offspring (Anup Shah, 2009). If the spilling happened near the coast, the soil and plants will also be polluted. Moreover, some oil fields are found on the sea. Once the oil fields break forth, it will cause the ocean pollution more serious than spilling and people have to cost great deal of labor, money and time to solve the problem. Even though people can clean up the ocean as soon as possible, it is impossible to leave without any harmful substance. So it is a long term for water system to refine itself. Also, when some byproducts are produced from oil in factories, the scrap and excess chemicals will also pollute the water and be hard to clean up. So the pollutions caused by oil usage affect the environment seriously. Based on the facts, decreasing the pollution caused by oil and cutting down the usage of oil is essential.
As the serious effects of the Middle East war show, the struggle in oil will trigger the political issue and economic crisis. So many modern wars are caused by oil, like the Gulf War which happened in 1990; Iraq invaded Kuwait and then occupied it for a short time (William L. 2006). The result of the war is that it caused a large number of people to die or became homeless. One reason of the war was the struggle in oil. Those two countries' borderland located in the oil field with a mass of oil and both of the two countries want to get profit by oil. So when oil becomes the blasting fuse of modern war, the conflicts have never been stopped. People should think how to solve the conflicts after the killing to innocent people and paying to the vast expense of wars. Besides, the price of oil influences the global economy all the time. Once a country occur an event or the main oil producing countries occur war, the supplying of oil will decline and the price will raise, then the global economy will face instability inevitably. So oil certainly will cause political issue.
As mentioned before, since the oil faces shortage, pollutes the environment and causes political issues, it is better for people to think of cutting down oil usage and finding some kinds of new energy to replace oil.
The Need for Sustainable Energy-Renewable and Other Alternative Energy
Figure 1: Energy diversity
(http://www.gm-volt.com/index.php?s=soar)
Energy has an attribute which is diversity. As the figure 1 shows there are many kinds of energies have been explored, like coal, nuclear, hydroelectric, oil, natural gas and other renewable energy, and more and more new energies are found constantly. If people use different kinds of energies, then they will not struggle in oil and the energy security issue. However, the fact is that the oil occupies only 3.1% of the ultimate resources, but be used in almost every aspect. So the usage of energy is simplex and centralized, and people put the usage emphasis on oil, coal and natural gas and the usages of other kinds of energies are not sufficient. People should utilize the energy diversity and think about the cutting down of oil usage, and try to find new energy to change the structure of energy usage.
Since the energy diversity, renewable and alternative energy is a kind of suitable substitute goods to oil. As the name shows, it is a kind of green and safety energy which can be used repeatedly and without worrying that they will be overused, so it can meet the requirements of industrial production and daily routine of residents even the population increase rapidly. Like bioenergy, geothermic energy, hydrogen power, hydropower ocean energy, solar power and wind power (Logan, Bruce E. 2006). They will not bring pollution and bad effects to environment and human beings. They are the gifts provided by the nature directly so that people do not have to explore them and will not be worried that it goes against the nature. This kind of energy can offset the gap of energy usage with cutting down the oil usage, even better than oil.
There are several different types of renewable and alternative energies which have been used by some countries and provide some benefits. Like Bioenergy, Hydropower and Solar power. Bioenergy is a kind of renewable energy which is available from the material comes from the biological source, like animal waste, straw, wood, wood waste, sugar cane and other byproducts form varieties of agricultural processes (Roosevelt A. 2009). Those sources can be found almost everywhere. So people will not be worried that bioenergy can be overused and the perspective of the energy is great. The main advantages of bioenergy can be presented in two aspects. One aspect is that methane which is a kind of bioenegy can be burnt to support power to people's daily life and it can be provided by the manure of people. So it is economical and convenient. The other one is that bioenergy is a clean energy which can be substituted for diesel fuel in many types of vehicle, like trucks, buses, farm equipment and other types of heavy transportation. It can provide the same horsepower and torque, and bring less noise pollution compared to regular gas energy (Roosevelt A. 2009). With the rise of international energy price, bioenergy is supposed to be used in the farming and transportation industries as an alternative energy in the future. So the usage of bioenergy is a good example of the successful usage of renewable and alternative energy in reality. Bioenergy can replace oil well and be as popular as oil.
Hydropower is another kind of renewable energy which is derived from the force of moving water, like river and ocean. The benefit of the energy is that it is provided by the nature directly and people can use it without bringing any pollution. The exploitations of hydropower are mainly shown in hydroelectric dams and the usage of tidal power. Hydropower is so powerful that it can bring enormous power to people, so people always use hydropower to make electricity. One of the most famous hydroelectric dams in the world is the Three Gorges Dam which spans the Yangtze River in Yichang, at the Hubei province, China. It can transport, prevent flood and provide the electricity to the most part of south part of China. When 26 generators were brought into commercial operation, the total generating capacity of the dam can achieve to 84. 7 TWh per year. Thus, it can help to decline the usage of coal of 40-50 million tons, decrease 2 million tons of SO2 emission and 10,000 tons of CO emission. The Three Gorges Dam is so economical that it recovered cost of 25 billion of RMB (Chen, Jing. 2009). China saves much money every year and the citizens do profit a lot from it. So compared with oil, hydropower is pollution free and can bring more benefits than oil.
Solar power is also a kind of renewable and alternative energy. It is always be used to make electricity. The solar panel likes the battery which can help absorb and save solar power. If people use the solar panel system, they can save up 50% on Energy Bill compared to using regular electricity (Cristea, 2010). The solar panel is very convenient which will not occupy much space, for example, it can be set in the roof. People do not have to always maintain it and it can produce electricity for more than 20 years without any misgiving. Another usage of solar power is that it can be the energy as gas of vehicles, like the invention of solar cars. As a big requester of oil, if vehicles use solar power, the demand and pollutions of oil will be declined, and it is good for the environment. Thus, compared with oil, solar power is clean and economical.
The usage of renewable and alternative energy is a long term investment (Pollard C. 2007). Some people may think that the cost of using renewable and alternative is great, but after the initial cost people will benefit it for a long term and without the worry of polluting the environment and the possibility of overusing. Besides, completing the energy infrastructure founding is good to extend the usage of renewable and alternative energy systems (Aaron. 2010). So it is necessary and important for every country to thinking about the found of energy infrastructure and then make the renewable and alternative energy service for people much better.
Conclusion
As mentioned above, oil plays an important role in the development of society. By the development of industry and the advancing population, people will face the oil shortage sooner or later, so before the oil is overused, people should cut down the oil usage. The renewable and alternative energy is renewable, pollution free and economical and it has the same functions as oil, so facing the energy security it is a good choice to use the renewable and alternative energy to replace oil. Using the renewable and alternative energy is a long term investment, to service better every country should complete the found of energy infrastructure and then the renewable and alternative energy certainly will do a great contribution to the environment, industry development and human society.
Reference
Aaron (2010). Investment in energy infrastructure: more data to help improve planning. Retrieved February 25, 2010, from http://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/expert/infopress
Anup Shah. (2009). Oil & the Environment. Retrieved December 29, 2009, from http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/kids/energy
Chen, Jing. (2009, December). Three Gorges Dam. Geomorphology, 217-229.
Cristea. (2010,January). On a Model of the Typical Cell from a Solar Power. AIP Conference Proceedings, 433-438.
George C. (2001, April). Business. Economist. 10-13.
Logan, Bruce E. (2006, September 1). Energy Diversity Brings Stability. Environmental Science & Technology, 5161.
Pollard C. (2007). Renewable Energy News. Retrieved July 28, 2007, from http://www.sciencedaily.com/news/earth_climate/renewable_energy/
Roosevelt A. (2009, December). Current Trends in Biofuel Production and Its Use as an Alternative Energy Security. Electronic Journal of Environmental, Agricultural & Food Chemistry, 1223-1260.
Steve. (2003, February). Oil, Security, War. Multinational Monitor. 6-11.
The essential editor. (2010, February). Comment on Energy Crisis White Papers. American Scientist, 94.
William L. (2006). A History of the Modern Middle East. 463.
