In the 21st century, technology is becoming more and more important in our lives. Technology is a broad concept that has come to refer to breakthroughs in science that allow for a better or automated solution. Whatever in the field of business, health, education and communication, it plays a vital part in these fields. However, every thing has two sides in the world, like the argument over the development of technology. So, is the development of technology a beneficial thing or a harmful thing for human beings? Overall, it is a beneficial thing.
What does the development of technology bring to the business field? Without hesitation, technology provides up-to-date market information, which helps people make the right decisions. Moreover, it accelerates the birth of new-style economics and produces much more fortune. Robbing Gao, the president of HP in china said, "a new rule in business means a new direction, it is very comprehensive that includes the field of politics, economics, culture, society and morality. Furthermore, how to use technology that advances the development of this rule and becomes a huge power is becoming more and more significant" (Gao, 2011). The reformation of technology brings the new forms of servings that accelerate the new-style industries and the new forms of providing services increase the efficiency of industries. Then, the rapid speed of severing could bring much more consumption that boosts the well- grown business market.
In contrast, many business crimes these years are related to technology. Criminals steal confidential information of other companies to destroy the rule of fairness in market. The law enforcement which officer in the U.S showed that the rate of crime in the domain of high technology is presenting a trend of increase, especially stealing business confidentialities, destroying computer hardware. John Mc Mullen, an searcher in Silicon Valley Santa Clara Law Firm stated, "Our law firm has been dealt with 30 technological crimes this year but there were just two technological crimes last year" (Mc Mullen, 2001). This trend is not only in Silicon Valley, but also in other states in the U.S, Paul Brick, the detective in Austin police station, figured out, "compared with the same period last year, the technological crimes' number increased by 30% in front 8 moths in 2001. It arrives into 84" (Green, 2001). With the development of technology, the phenomenon of stealing intellectual property and business confidentialities is very serious. In 2000, the international Computer Security Association did a research on 273 companies around the world, the results showed there is about $2,6600,0000 profit loss because of technology crimes. From these facts, technology results in negative consequences in business. However, when the business market established, the stealing crimes have existed. It true that the development of technology has provides a new way to stealing confidential informal but is not the root of increasing rate of crimes and profit loss. With the development of technology, the business confidentiality can be highly protected and the system of online business can be improved and perfected. Since the technology can be a tool of stealing, it also can be a tool of protecting.
What dose developments of technology bring the field of health? The benefits in the treatment of diseases and healthcare are obvious. Shiyi Wu, a Ph D in U.S said, " Health information technology is the key to improving efficiency and quality of healthcare" (Wu, 2006). There are many changes that are happening quietly. In 1900, an American man could expect to live on average until he was 45 years old. By 1940, that life-expectancy number had jumped to 62 years, while for women the average number increased from 51 years to 66 years. That unprecedented advance in public health was largely the result of the spread of disease-fighting technologies like vaccines, antibiotics and improved sanitation. A similar "very auspicious moment" is at hand in public health, according to Thomas Goetz, executive editor of Wired and author of a new book. "This time, the potential revolution in public health", Mr. Goetz said in an interview Friday, "will be led by digital technologies that enable people to live healthier lives and make better treatment decisions" (Goetz, 2005). Diseases sometimes are deadly in the long river of human's history, they limit the average life span of people around the world, like cancer, AIDS, bronchial asthma and so on. Some of these diseases can be cured totally by modern technology. However, some diseases cannot be cured totally but can be controlled and make people feel better and live longer by using medical machines or any other modern treatments. In addition, with the improvement of the standard of living, human beings are not only satisfied with their health, but also their figures and appearances. This demand expedites the medical technology and varies the treatments, particularly the cosmetic surgery. More and more people think that the surgery makes them more confident and positive during their lives, for instance, about 58.2% of people in South Korea are enjoy this technology. The following cartoon reflects that there are more and more people using this medical technology.
Figure1: Cartoon about the faith in cosmetic surgery.
On one hand, the technology advances the medical industry's development; on the other hand, the harm which technology brings cannot be ignored. In 1999, the experts of Beijing Board Of Health did a survey about high technology's effects during the lifetime, and the report showed that, "30% of workers that worked in TV industry had shoulder-syndrome that results from a tiring damage of handling the machines and keyboards and sustaining a long time. Besides, there are about 40%~50% people that using air conditioning results in decreasing of immunity" (Beijing Evening Newspaper, 1999). Air conditioning changes living environment, however it is just a factor, which causes cold. Similarly as the ozone (a disease that makes people feel tired) that copiers have irritated the respiratory tract and then cause the pain of throat; the noises, which comes from family cinema, also brings the uncomfortable feeling of the old people. But it does not matter because people can avoid these harmful effects, like often opening the windows and resting for a moment. The experts suggested that using computer every two hours that need to rest for 10~15 minutes, in addition, people can plant cacti, orchid to absorb the radiation or noises from the technological productions. From these suggestions, human beings can avoid the harmful things totally that come from the technology. There was a research in Taiwan that compared the myopia probability among the senior high students before the action of "using technology healthier" and after (Taiwan day newspaper, 2009). The result showed that the myopia probability decreased obviously because one rule of this action that decreasing the time of watching TV. Briefly, the disadvantages that technology brings can be dealt with personal behaviors.
What does technology bring to human beings in education? Technology advancements in the field of education are fast evolving. Today, online-learning is a familiar and popular term. Most online-learning programs provide immediate feedback on learner assessment. Furthermore, there are features such as chat, discussion boards, online-library and so on that allow clarification at a faster pace than in traditional classrooms. Obviously, the increased use of technology in education has brought popularity to the concept of distance learning. It has dealt with the restrictions of time and location, such as online learning. The following chart provides a useful snapshot of the status of distance learning in the U.S.
Figure 2?chart about the number of online learners.(Christensen& Horn, 2008)
The popularizing rate of online learning now is becoming higher than 2000. In fact, the online learning is a part of education.
On the contrary, depending on the online learning too much and decreasing the efficiency that happens on students are common. Some students don not listen to their teachers because they know they can learn online after class and this thought will occupy much more time of rest, then influence the second day's efficiency. As a result, the two sides of technology in education need to be considered and to find ways to keep a balance, and the efficiency also depends on students themselves.
However, many people know that an aspirant student always makes full use of the digital tool and they know that what should do and shouldn't do. Consciousness could conquer the harmful side of technology in education. Further more, with the development of technology, the average qualities of human beings are increasing. There a survey in china that shows there are about 80% of students will choose the well-development countries to study because of advanced instruments (Nanjing education, 2010).
What technology brings to us in communication? Huateng Ma, the CEO of the QQ Company stated, "Technology is an original power advancing the revolution of chatting" (Ma, 2000). This is an age full of communication, with no restrictions, MSN, Facebook, QQ are all surrounding. In other words, technology brings a benefit and cheaper way to human beings, chatting online. However, the deceiving online is becoming more and more rampant with chatting online. The criminals who cheat for money or sex sometimes begin with talking to the victims online that that don't know. From other point of view, deceiving is a social issue in the long river of history, the technology just changes the form of deceiving like the stealing confidential information. However, there is a new technology was invented that called C4KISR aim at assure the personality information is safe.
In fact, the harmful side and beneficial side of technology development are always appearing at the same time. Some people will say if there were no technology, there would not so many wars. Maybe the world would peaceful and clear like in the past, however, it is also a backward world. The war is a violent form to push the social developing and then establish a better structure of society. It 's true that wars claim so many lives that destroy the old cultural inheritance but it also provides a condition to establish a new rule. Moreover, because of the development of technology, people can find more problems to deal with them and do research on them. And there are many experts dedicated to find the balance between technology and life. Why do we just wait the time that enjoying the technology without harm in the future?
In summary, the development of technology is a beneficial thing for human beings whatever in the field of business, health, education and communication. It helps maintain the fair competition in business market, provide more treatments, and expend the way both in education and communication. A new thing is appearing must have its reason and it's a regulation in the nature, if the advantages of this more than the disadvantages, we need to develop them, like the technology, to benefit the human beings.
Reference page
1. Gao, Robbing. (2011). Using technology to advance the new rule of market. Beijing Economic Newspaper, 484
2. Luo, Suo. (2001). Crimes of high technology is increasing. Retrieved from
http://www.tianya.cn/publicforum/Content/it/1/10405.shtml
3. Annals.org. (2006) Systematic Review: Impact of Healthy Information
Technology on Quality, Efficiency, and Cost of Medical Care. Retrieved from
http://www.annals.org/content/144/10/742.short
4. Rodale. (2010). The decision tree: Taking Control of Your Health in the New Era of
Personalized Medicine. Wired, 462
5. Fengxiang, Li. (1999). The harm that technology brings. Beijing Evening News, 489
6. Ma, Huateng. (2000). My Tencent industry. Route, 78
7. Green, Demmon. (2008) Cartoon about the faith in the cosmetic surgery. Receive from
http://www.freethunk.net/freethunk_ebook2/toons/set3/cosmetic.gif
8. Christensen& Horn. (2008) A chart about the number of online learners. Receive from
http://accessdl.state.al.us/Images/Online-courses.jpg
9. Liu, Jiang. (2009). Modern education. Taiwan day newspaper, 355
10. Zhang, Zi. (2010). The information of studying aboard. Nanjing education, 165
11. Goetz, Kara (2005). Systematic review: impact of healthy information technology on Quality, Efficiency,
and Cost of Media Care. Modern healthcare, P124~29
