The debate if the violent video games cause violent behavior
With the tremendous progress in technology, many things entered our houses. One of the biggest devises of the modern technology is the video games. As every new technology, there is who support it and there is who doesn't, there is who see the bright side and there is who see the dark side of the new technology.
The video games start in the 1947 by prophesier Thomas T. Goldsmith, with game called cathode ray tube amusement device. After that video games began to appear one after another. Video games become a controversial topic for scientists and the general public. There is who sees video games cause of aggression and violent behavior. In contrast, there is who believe that video games are not harmful, and there are bigger reasons for those problems. Video games have evolved especially when it involved in the internet environment, and video game now could be played online with other people around the world. And it has more effect on the players, in fact there are those who got married because of video games that allowed and give them the opportunity to meet each other in this imaginary world of online video games.
There are a lot of studies about the video games, violent video game precisely whether they cause violent behavior for who is playing it or not, some sees that video game are teaching the kids to act violently and learning then how to use a gun, but video games are always targeted as the main cause of violent behavior because of ignorance of the real causes of this problem. Family history could be a cause of violent behavior. Violent video game not only gives bad influence but also there are benefits that players could have from playing those violent video game.
Video games are always targeted as the cause of the violent behavior, in a matter of fact violent video game is a way to relieve from daily life pressure. Violent video game makes the players express his feeling violently in the game and by letting those violent feeling and behavior out in the game he may not act violently in the real life. Video game players can tell the reality from fantasy and they have level of common sense that prevents them from emulating the violent. There is a distinct realization between video game violence and real life violence. People in general do not want to bring harm to one another. Violent video game is no different from other entertainment all of them have violent content."Many different forms of entertainment such as cartoons, reality television shows, and movies contain violence and have the power to influence people, yet these are not so vigorously held to account".( Haugen, 2008,p.53)
Chart showing the decline in violent crime offenses and increases in video game sales from 1996-2004.
Some scientists see that violent video game is the cause of the violent behavior."Most video games teach you to fire at each target only once. Hitting as many targets as you can, as fast as you can, in order to rack up a high score. And many video games give bonus effects" (Grossman, D, Degaentano, G, 1999, p.37). Grossman and Degaentano showed that violent video games teach the kids how to use a gun. In addition that violent video game will change the child behavior and he will be acting violently. Furthermore, they show that the video game is the only reason for acting violently without showing other passable reasons like movies and cartons. They are over reacting because no one will know how to use gun or shot with the gun because he saw it in video game because it is completely different from each other like riding a horse in video game does not make the player a professional and horse men in real life because they make it more easer in the game because they don't want the players having a hard time to enjoy and do it right. There are a lot of criminals who killed somebody and did armed robbery and they are now behind bars. When they asked them from their life history they didn't find that they play violent video game in their life ever. This give a hint that there is bigger problem cause this violent behavior and violent video game is not one of those problems
Family violent behavior effect the child behavior ether he plays violent video game or not. He will act and he will behave violently because of an old family violent. "Environmental factors moderate the causal influence of biology, particularly through the influence of family violence. The role of media violence (including video games) in such a model is not causal. Rather violent video games may act as stylistic catalysts"(Engelhard C, 2008, P.315)
In the below chart we can see the different factors that can affect the child behavior and cause the violent behavior. (Genetic factors, Family violence, aggressive personality)
Engelhard C, 2008, P. 315
Before the video game existed there was violent kids, after they violent video game being created they saw that children who are already aggressive like violent video game. There is a study showed what children like more from video games. In addition he is proofing the idea of children who play violent video game are already acting violent by logical. Violent behavior has other factors and video game is not the main factor. And even if the child play a violent video game and he is acting violently that mean he is a violent kid in the behavior before he start playing the violent video game and he play at the first place because violent video game grab the violent kids to play it and this shows that video game are not the real cause of violent but there are bigger cause like parents genes or divorce. "Children who prefer violent computer games are at risk of persistence of this love for the games they have. Researchers stressed that they did not monitor these children have an increasing tendency to violence in real life"(Alyaum, 2011, home page). And this supports the previous source that family could be the main reason of the violent behavior.
Other scientist's gone more deeply and fined that violent video game does not cause violent, and the laboratory research a proof that. "The comparison between the pre-evaluation data of the two groups of subjects did not result in any significant differences regarding either cardiovascular measures (arterial blood pressure and heart rate), or psychological measures (trait anxiety), and the average time spent playing videogames daily"( Baldaro, B, 2004, p.57). They study and the laboratory result shows that violent video game does not cause violent behavior, and if by any chance the violent video game cause violent behavior this will be for only short time and this behavior will disappear after a short time. Like everything else in this life you just so or did for a period of time will affect you for short time after you just finish watching it or doing it. For example if you set and watch a movie with 3D technology for two hours since the movie end and you remove the classes that give you the special view and walked into the street you will still having confusion in your vision because your brain cells still not back to the normal function. This logic apple also on this study which proofed that violent video game does not cause violent still if it cause it will affect the behavior for short time.
Other says that violent video game change the young kids behavior especially when they are in environment allowed them to interact with other young kids like in the school. Actually this is not necessarily true because in famous cases that show aggressive and violent behavior in schools been studies by expert and the results show no proof that violent video game been the cause. "The U.S. Secret Service reviewed a quarter century of school-based attacks. The report did not single out violent media use as a contributor to school shootings"(Olson, C, 2008, p.68). in addition they find that other problem are the cause like mental disorder and teen ager struggles. And this once again shows that violent video game is not the cause of violent behavior especially in schools. Young kids environment like schools have a lot of problems to the person personality with all the physical changes and physical growth in the body and voice change due to puberty, all of these elements dose huge impact to the kid brain and some of them handle it well and other can't which made him do a strange new behavior what other used to see before these changes occurring, which make them try to find a reason what is this person changed and they targeted the violent video game as the cause of this in welcomed new violent behavior and this is a wrong reasoning.
Violent video game always being a big debate between the scientists and expert and common people whether if they are cause violent behavior or not. Violent video game not only doesn't cause of the violent behavior, but also there are benefits from playing violent video game. Violent video game helps the young children to understand the violent and especially in war. "From this perspective, rather than promoting aggressive or violent behavior, playing electronic games with violent content may be a healthy way for children and adolescents to safely experiment or grapple with the complicated issues of war, violence, and death, without any real world consequences"( Dorothy E. Holly S, 2005, p. 175). They are an expert in Harvard medical school. Every war has a violent scenes and most of the soldiers who has being in a war before has a nightmares because of these violent bloody scenes and they knew after the war that violent action against other human is an brutal action and will cause a bad consequences in your feeling and the rest of your life. The result those soldiers reach it is a highly price because they ended other human life before they relies how the violent action will bring only unhappiness and feelings of remorse and hatred for himself for the rest of his life. In the violent video game players can have those understanding of how violent actions are unwelcomed and they will returns on you with miserable feeling without real consequences not like when you have this understanding in war after you ended other person life.
Moreover, violent video game will teach the kids how to make accurate decisions quickly. That mean there are benefits from violent video game and they are not always a bad effect on children. Even if the violent video game are not the cause of violent behavior they moreover a good modern technology we obtain. Studies indicated that these games help to train people to make accurate decisions quickly in all walks of life. This is confirmed by researchers at the Department of Psychology at the University of Minnesota, after finding in a new study that fast violent video games, like a game of "Halo it encourages the player to better use of evidence based on the feelings in the decision-making, a skill known as probabilistic inference. The researchers said" the decisions taken in this case accurate. They use information more effectively, they take more information from the world perceived linked to the decision he faces, these effects are caused by violent video games and only games known as Sniper"(University of Minnesota, 2008, home page).
A new study shows that violent video games such as fighting games and variety of other violent games tend compassion from the heart of children. The new study, conducted by Professor Edward Simmons of the University of Vera, which included "children between the ages of 7 to 15 years, has showed that violent video games by this age group reduces their sense of the consequences of violent acts, The study showed that it is not necessarily that every child plays violent games will turn into a criminal because that is integrated with the family surrounding the child, it is possible if the family about the child's compassionate take a point out these things for the child balanced."(Simmons E, 2011, homepage). This article is against violent video game, but at the end it says even so video game is not the only cause of the violent behavior and this support that violent video game is not surely the cause of violent after the study and the experiment. this article study did not only show the other side studies and experiment, but also it showed the other side result of studies and they also agree that there are not indeed reason that violent video game is the cause of violent behavior.
U.S. Supreme Court approves the sale of violent video games to minors. The court approving of the sale of violent video games to minors as a reason that video game is not the cause of violent behavior and if it is not the court will not be approved on this decision." the highest judicial body in the United States decided that the law in force in California state is violation of the constitution, freedom of expression is the most important American values ??and is the first article of the constitution, the court does not want to increase the restrictions and found that there is children's books such as the stories of Grimm is a licensed violent"(Supreme Court of the United States, 2011, home page). Citing examples of how this "ripping out the bathroom Sandrella my sister's eyes, and how to kill and Hensl Gratal lady abducted by burning it in the oven. And they are approving and they are not the cause of violent as the same for violent video games. A court approving most the time mean after a careful study and this give a high credibility. The violent game not the cause of violent because there are other things could be the cause of it like the high school books.
In conclusion, violent video game is an imaginary world. Acting violent in this world will not cause real life problems and this behavior will not be a usual player behavior because video game players can tell the reality from fantasy and they have level of common sense that prevents them from emulating the violent. Parents are protective and they are trying to figure out what happen to their child and why he is acting differently without looking at the bigger picture that their child are in particular time of his life and he is experience an tremendous changes in his body like when he is in the teen age instead of recognize the issue what is, they find the easiest suspected and point at it as the cause of the changes and in this case is the video game. This debate is important for the families who's having similar situation so they can have a more understanding what is the real cause of the violent behavior and not accusing the wrong thing, by having an understanding how other factors could be the real cause they will have the right solution.
