Abortion Legal or Illegal
Abortion is to termination of life someone when a mother pregnant, that for different reasons. Some of them are legal such as the pregnant make risk to mother or illegal such as just ending the pregnancy. In some countries low women who did the abortion if the reasons of abortion were not convincing. Those countries made roles to make the abortion legal that should be with medical reports that show how risk the pregnancy made to their. The first time did an abortion people in this time disagree because it something new as Ponnuru, R. (1995) said in his article Abortion History. Also, the author disagrees and he gave some reasons such as killing. In addition, people in that time were not accepted that because they did not know what is the goal of the abortion they just think that is crime. They did not think about risks made by pregnancy to the mother. But after research did by groups of doctors and scientists that show some reasons of legal abortion matching save life the mothers or the chilled might be dying.
After several years with researches, and studies that to show people in the worldwide legal abortion with reasons made it requirements for pregnant women. Gilda Sedgh, Susheela Singh, Stanley K. Henshaw and Akinrinola Bankole those who are group of researchers wrote theirs academic journal on (2011) under the topic Legal Abortion Worldwide in 2008: Levels and Recent Trends. (Perspectives on Sexual & Reproductive Health, 43(3), 188). They were showing some reasons made abortion legal; the need to abortion one of them, or save life one person. They also were showing the rates of illegal abortions in Europe were coming with explanations made it legal but the court did not accept them. Those researchers were making the opinions of many people about abortion from forbid or illegal to legal with different medical proofs, or might be police report if the pregnancies were illegal or crimes as rape. In addition, according to this article Liberal Abortion established from Mexico. Mexican low people named this kind of abortion.
According to Ilyas, Alam, Ahmad and Ghafoor, (2009). Abortion and Protection of the Human Fetus: Religious and Legal Problems in Pakistan. Human Reproduction & Genetic Ethics, 15(2), 55-59. Muslim jurists are unanimous in declaring that after the fetus is completely formed and has been given a soul, abortion is haram (forbidden). That shows the religion opinion. Because there are many plaice can religion gives the reasons to abortion.
According to Hemminki, Zhuochun Guiying and Viisainen (2005). Illegal births and legal abortions the case of China. Reproductive Health. What is the situation of abortion in Chain they said "Original texts and previous published and unpublished reports and statistics were used Results: By 1979 the Chinese population policy was clearly a policy of controlling population growth. For a pregnancy to be legal, it has to be defined as such according to the family-level eligibility rules, and in some places it has to be within the local quota. Enforcement of the policy has been pursued via the State Family Planning (FP) Commission and the Communist Party (CP), both of which have a functioning vertical structure down to the lowest administrative units. There are various incentives and disincentives for families to follow the policy. An extensive system has been created to keep the contraceptive use and pregnancy status of all married women at reproductive age under constant surveillance. In the early 1990s FP and CP officials were made personally responsible for meeting population targets. Since 1979, abortion has been available on request, and the ratio of legal abortions to birth increased in the 1980s and declined in the 1990s. Similar to what happens in other Asian countries with low fertility rates and higher esteem for boys, both national- and local-level data show that an unnaturally greater number of boys than girls are registered as having been born."
Martin, J. (1961). Abortion. Saturday Evening Post, 234(22), 25 said in his journal " ABORTION HOW DO REPUTABLE PHYSICIANS ANSWER THESE DIFFICULT-OFTEN TRAGIC-QUESTIONS: WHEN IS ABORTIVE SURGERY JUSTIFIED? WHEN IS IT ILLEGAL?" " According to the tiles of the Los Angeles Superior Court, Criminal Division, Brenda Blonder married Steve Emerson in 1. 958 shorts after she turned sixteen and a few months later told her mother she was pregnant and wanted an abortion, "Mommy," she said, "This is no time for me to be pregnant" this also a story from this journal describe the illegal abortion. Or before that was illegal pregnancy the one of reason made abortion illegal.
In American the abortion took large discussion sensually teenagers. According to (Ezzard, Cates, Kramer, and Tietze (1982). Race Specific Patterns of Abortion Use by American Teenagers. American Journal Of Public In 1973. The US Supreme Court declared all restrictive state abortion laws unconstitutional. Thus make legal abortion available on a national level. Between 1973 and 1978, the national abortion rate (or women of all ages increased 70 per cent-from 16. 5 abortions per 10(10 women age 15 to 44 years to 28.2-and the national abortion ratio increased 82 per cent-from 239 abortions per 1O(K) live births to 417.' The extent, to which this decision attested teenagers, and specifically the different teenage racial groups, cannot be determined from published statistics because legal abortion was not reported by both age and race prior to 1978. In this article we present estimates of teenage abortion rates and ratios by age at conception and race for the United States from 1972-1978. From these trends we infer the impact of the increasing availability of legal abortion on teenage patterns."
According to Ceaser, M. (2006). Court ends Colombia's abortion ban. Lancet, 367(9523), 1645-1646. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(06)68715-1 Colombia is one of the countries the abortion was illegal. Ceaser said "Cardiologist Miguel Ronderos walks between the rows of small beds in Bogota's Cardioinfantil Foundation Hospital. Many of these newborn babies have congenital defects that will cause anguish for their parents and cost their families and society fortunes. "In North America and Europe, 90% of major malformations are detected in the womb", says Ronderos. "Here in Colombia we don't reach 1%."
