Kuwait is a democratic peace-loving contemporary and technologically developed oil-rich Gulf country. Kuwait is one of the states that provides all means of comfort and entertainment for citizens, and also to residents on home soil, providing Kuwaiti citizens with beautiful and prosperous lives. In Kuwait, education, health care and the provision of housing loans are free for citizens. The price of gasoline is much cheaper than other developed countries. However, like any other country, Kuwait has its own problems. These problems may be internal or external. Expansion of internal problems is what will be studied and analyzed in this report. One of the internal problems is the Bedoon problem.
The problem of Albedoon, which means "without" in Arabic, is that they are stateless and illegal residents of the State of Kuwait who do not have any proof or identity. The Bedoons basically want to have the rights of normal citizens. Bedoon are people who have been offended by citizens in different situations. On the other hand, if the government gives them the citizenship, it will make unfair regulations because the Bedoons will be equal to the citizens who are already citizens. Many Kuwaitis think that giving the Bedoon citizenship would be unfair and illegal in the society. Although this started as a small issue, the Bedoon problem has become a controversial topic that concerns most Kuwaitis today. Some Kuwaitis support the Bedoon and the idea of giving them citizenship, while others argue and reject this idea. Each group has their own points of view with their evidence and support. There are two groups of Bedoons who deserve the Kuwaiti citizenship. The first group is those who fought in the Iraqi invasion or have lost a family member during the war. The other group consists of those who sacrificed their lives for Kuwait or lived in Kuwait since its foundation. They did not receive the citizenship because the government refused to give them citizenship for several reasons. These reasons include some statements that they said out in public and expressed such as "We Kuwaiti natives do not want the documents to prove how pure is our love for our homeland, or proof that we are Kuwaitis"(Essa) Another reason is that they refused to get citizenship in accordance with Article II in Kuwaiti charter. Essa states, "We want the Kuwaiti nationality in accordance with Article I in Kuwaiti charter, because people are equal and no one is better than the other" (Essa). Essa's point is that people are equal. As for those who do not deserve the citizenship, they are the ones who came from nearby countries of Kuwait like Saudi Arabia and Iraq. They hope to obtain the citizenship, because they've seen how well the Kuwaitis are treated. In addition, they want to avail themselves of properties of citizenship such as education, health etc. So, those people do not deserve to have citizenship because they not originally from Kuwait and they do not deserve those rights that are given to the Kuwaiti citizens.
There are many often important reasons that prevent the government from giving Bedoon Kuwaiti citizenship. First of all, they come from other countries hoping to get the Kuwaiti nationality which they don't have the right to get. They originally come from neighboring countries such as Iraq, KSA, and other Arab countries(You Tube) . Their aim is to stay in Kuwait to obtain the citizenship. The second argument with the government regulations. One of the main laws states that for a non-Kuwaiti resident to get citizenship, he or she must have contributed in a sincere work and show patriotism for the government in any situation, case, or event( liberalism) . Developing the country in all aspects is also considered as being loyal or caring for the country which is also included in this code . The third reason is that most who are they political analysts refuse the idea of giving the Bedoons citizenship, because they believe that Bedoons do not deserve the citizenship because they are all not from Kuwait and they are also not from neighboring countries. According to politician Waleed Abo Al-Ruba, "After the Gulf War I personally know some Indians wanted to get Kuwaiti citizenship and claimed It.", and "Where is the sincere work that is carried out by this person to demand citizenship?" (You Tube). Waleed makes two points. First, foreigners come from close countries to Kuwait hoping to get the Kuwaiti citizenship even though they have the nationality of their home country such as Iraq or Saudi Arabia. The second reason is basically a question, " Why do we give them the citizenship?!" He said that they do not deserve the citizenship for any reason. Third reason is they are also not from neighboring countries which maybe they comes from any neighboring countries because of the bad life they have. Many people in Kuwait sees those reasonse are not so good to prevent the government to give Bedoon the citizenship,Because they are humans like any other people, also they must have the right to have an education , documentary such as passport and health careness(You Tube).
The other side of the argument, which they are Bedoons people and some of the representatives of the Kuwaiti parliament and Kuwaiti people who have friends or families from Bedoons, thinks that the citizenship must be given to all bedoon people, whether they did something patriotic and useful thing or not. There areparties arguing for a case in the society. The first party clearly rejects the idea of giving the Bedoons citizenship. While the other party tries to support the Bedoons in their case. Earlier this year a bunch of protestors went out in the streets shouting for their rights. These protestors were Bedoons. During the demonstrations some of the rebellions in the Jahra area, some of the protestors (white suit)were attacked by the national guards(blue suit ) in order to stop this action as it shown in figure (1).
Attacking of Bedoon by the National Guards
After that, the National Assembly Speaker, Jassem Al-Kharafi, stated in Alrai Kuwaiti's newspaper that "what happened was an unacceptable act by the Bedoons. This may cause eruptions and problems in the government. He also stated that he will find solutions for the Bedoons and their case."(Bedoon). Jassem Al-Kharafi's point of view is that some Bedoons deserve the citizenship but after what the protestors did will affect the government's thoughts about giving them the citizenship. The protestor's action this year will persuade a lot of people support Bedoons with their issue. According to Human right organization, "Kuwait practices a system of institutionalized discrimination against its residents known as Bedoons, longtime inhabitants who have been denied Kuwaiti citizenship and are now being rendered stateless. Barred from employment, denied education for their children" .(Human right Watch) . Human right organization makes two points, First , bedoons are not welcomed in some ministries and some companies . Secondly, their children cannot enter schools and universities like other normal Kuwaiti children, because it may touch the heart's of Kuwaiti children and make them sympathize with other Bedoons children. Bedoon children also went out to street shouting for their right to be like other Kuwaiti children and have the same rights as is shown in figure (2).
Bedoon Child Shouting for his Right
Many people in Kuwait after they have seen what happened to the protestors in street, like shuting and arrested them they are now completlly support their case, also they are feeling what Bedoons are feeling in.
The solution to the Bedoon problem can be solved based on Kaled Abdulhameed's solution . According to Kaled Abdulhameed, there are three steps to take to solve the Bedoon problem. These three stepsshould satisty both the opposing side or the supporting side in the issue. According to Kaled Abdulhamed Al-zamel , there are three steps for resolving the Bedoon's problem. First, to form a judicial commission in the High Court and Court of Appeals to consider the eligibility of each individual person, with the entitlement of Kuwaiti Nationality. The second step is, granting citizenship to all children of martyrs. It is believed that because these Bedoons were killed for the state of Kuwait (in the Gulf Wars), then at least the government should give them citizenship in recognition of their heroism and defense of the people. And the third step is, granting citizenship to all relatives of the Kuwaitis. For example someone had a father or brother or uncle from Kuwait, it is unreasonable for that person to not have citizenship since they are all from the same family(AL-Zamel) . Kaled's point of view is to give the citizenship to Bedoons after studying each individual case by case to make clear if they deserve citizenship or not. Kuwaiti people want to know that first, because it is fair and equal. Based on that study, every Bedoon person in Kuwait who deserves citizenship will get it; and those Bedoon people who dont't get awarded the citizenship the government will send back to their countries (Bedoon). This is a fair solution because it respects both Kuwaiti and Bedoon people, and it fairly judges each Bedoon individual case by case. This is a good solution because it forces the government to take their time when determines citizenship issues.
Ultimately, Kuwaiti people hope that the Bedoon's case and problem will be resolved. The Bedoon controversy has supporters and opponents that hold strong opinions which explode in the people for economic and moral reasons. There are many solutions to this problem, and Kaled's solution seems to be the best, because it will study every Bedoon person case be case, every Bedoon will get the cictizenship if he is a member of Kuwaiti family and the will get the citizrnship if he had a member of his family were killed for the state of Kuwait. This will eventually result in having no stateless people that suffer in Kuwait. Corruption will vanish and there will be no protestors arguing against the government and all people will have the same rights. If all this happens, the Kuwaiti will enjoy a decent state of freedom, security and safety.
