Is Study Abroad Useful for Middle East Students?
Significantly, there are a lot of people who want to study abroad, especially those who are from Saudi Arabia. Indeed, students from my country often request to study in North America, Europe, and Australia. The students who apply to study abroad should have enough money to pay for the university fees. However, Saudi Arabia government established a program in 1965, which provided scholarships to students for studying in the US and the UK. Saudi Arabia is regarded as a rich country, so it able to send more than hundreds of thousands of students around the world to receive more education. Nowadays, Saudi government sends thousands of Saudi students around the world to study and learn the skills of life to acquire the experience from other cultures.
In fact, studying abroad is very useful for the students in terms of gaining more experience in their life. There are many benefits of studying abroad that could help students to be better than before, such as refining them to be good people. Another benefit of studying abroad is that it helps students see the world through the eyes of civilization. Saudi Arabia is a religious country, which means that they should not drink alcohol and take drugs. Even though alcohol and drugs are illegal in Saudi Arabia, there are still many students who use them abroad. According to Nona (2012), study abroad "promotes understanding between students from diverse educational and cultural backgrounds by providing fun and educational programming for students to learn about each other's cultures"(international students). Culture is an important thing to learn. Also students will face a fun when they learn the culture. In fact, Saudi government wants for their students to become successful in their life in order to control the country in the future. This essay will illustrate how students can get a good education when they study abroad even though there are many obstacles in the process.
There are many students who apply to study abroad. They will acquire a lot of cultures indirect. International students can learn from each other's cultures. According to Shengelaia (2012), it "promotes understanding between students from diverse educational and cultural backgrounds by providing fun and educational programming for students to learn about each other's cultures"(international students) One good thing is learning more regards language for example, Chinese students learn basic phrases of Saudi students. When I came to the U.S, I saw a lot of international students I found Chinese students who speak a lot compared to Saudi and Spain. Also, the second life is important for everyone, which is learning and can control them self and they can live with no parents. In fact, everyone in the future will control his\her life and he\she will have children, so they should be confident people.
Figure 2: Study abroad can teach the students many cultures. Source: studyabroad.teacherlingo.com
In addition, there are many skills that everyone gets from studying abroad. For example, in America there are strong rules for driving, and then the students will learn it and then do it in their country.
Even though they use alcohol, study abroad can give the students a lot of experience especially how the students can control themself to get a successful life. According to Buchholz (2012), "Students who study abroad frequently describe their experience as life-changing"(home page) Studying abroad has a lot of benefits for the students since it helps them to get ready to face life. Also, when the students come back to motherland, they can find a job easily because they mostly have two languages and have good education with good experience. One of the reasons that jobs accept these students who were studying abroad is that there is a subject in the developed countries that is not available in Saudi Arabia. For example, in the UK a lot of international students come to study medical majors the research was in 2006. Also, there are a lot of Saudi students that come to the US to study the engineering because the government wants their students to become successful.
Alcohol is a big problem that a lot of students are facing when they are studying abroad. The problem is that there is no responsibility to parents and most students abroad are teenager. So, they just want to have fun and do not care about their courses. There are researches that show the percentage of drinkers before abroad and after abroad. This chart shows how big the effect is after the students went abroad and they use it more and more. Also, some of them use some illegal drugs. . It is bad and dangerous for the students. They could lose their lives. No one can stop them, and then they will not stop it.
Figure 1: This graph shows that students drink more when they studying abroad.
Source: Journal of Studies Alcohol & Drugs, 70(6), 924.
Everyone believes that some of Saudi Students are bad students because they drink alcohol a lot and they come to the U.S. to have fun. First of all, in our religion in Saudi Arabia alcohol and drugs are illegal so you cannot use them even you are out of the country. So, people who use it they should not drink. SACM is the program that responsible of Saudi students, if the SACM knows it will send the students back to Saudi Arabia. In other way, even if they use alcohol and drugs but there are doing good job in their studying. The graph above shows the percents of international students not about the Saudi students it is general graph.
Studying abroad is very hard in the first year for the students because they face a lot of troubles. For example, students from Saudi Arabia, it is hard for them to pronounce the words even though they took the English language as class in high school. Always a new language could be hard to learn. Also, the difference weather could affect on the students negatively because they will live in another city sometimes there are many differences. In addition, Different culture is one of the hardest things that face overseas student as well. Sometimes the student gets homesick because he\she always eat from his\her house. Homesickness can destroy the studying abroad. When the student has homesick he\she might be absent for the rest of the semester.
The studying is really hard for everyone so if someone want to become successful in his\her life he\she should work hard when the study. Students should face the problem and hard work. Also, its normal thing that the new language is hard. As I said when they go abroad they will got experience so that's mean they will face a problem for example the homesick. I believe that the homesick is big problem. My responds are not every student get the homesick the home sick is coming to the students who are not doing good in their studying.
Also, there are many reasons that support to study abroad, which people in Saudi Arabia lives in close community so they don't see the world. For example when I came to the U.S I saw a lot of differences, which led to culture shock because I never see this people everyone in my city they study. In fact, the studying in Saudi Arabia is really hard and without benefits. There are a lot Saudi students studied in Saudi Arabia then they cancel the studying there and come abroad to get a good studying.
In fact, there are several advantages to those students who studying abroad. For instance, these students will learn a new language in order to communicate and deal with people. Moreover, the experience that student will gain from studying abroad such as seeing a different way of life, interacting with people from diverse background, and being independence more than before. Furthermore, the study abroad has a strong benefit for students in terms of applying for a job on inside and even outside his/her country. In general, employers usually recruit employees who have such an experience with different background. In addition, over the time, studying abroad is changing the way of thinking. For example, in my country, women are not allowed to drive a car and I was agreed with my government, however, now I support that woman should driving.
In conclusion, studying abroad has a lot of advantage and it can help students to get a good education. Also, some of people have bad imago of studying abroad and they support their idea by saying that the students will use alcohol and drugs. But in fact, they will help their country and show the people how can the studying abroad can improve the students. Even though they use alcohol they use it just in the weekend. On another hand, if there are people they do not use alcohol they got bad education. In my opinion if they use alcohol and get good education it is better than they do not drink and get bad education
Sources
Al-Jarf.R.(2010)Teaching Professional English to Saudi Students Studying Abroad. http://faculty.ksu.edu.sa/aljarf
MAHER, A. (2010) Prepping Saudi Students for Study Abroad. Crossroads Arabia, http://xrdarabia.org/2010/12/02/prepping-saudi-students-for-study-abroad/
Nona, S.( 2012). International Students. Juilliard, http://www.juilliard.edu/student- life/international/index.php
Nianqing, L. (1998). Going abroad to study is hard, and so is coming back after completing one's studies. Chinese Education & Society, 31(2), 86.
Pedersen, E. F. (2009). Perceived Behavioral Alcohol Norms Predict Drinking for College Students While Studying Abroad. Journal of Studies on Alcohol & Drugs, 70(6), 924.
Ralf, S (2011) . Unpacking Your Study Abroad Experience, career spotlight. http://blogs.uww.edu/career/2012/03/05/unpacking-your-study-abroad-experience/
Romans-Roca, Susanna1Source: International Journal of Technology, Knowledge & Society; 2010, Vol. 6 Issue 6, p57-66, 10p ,Ortega, Mari-Carmen Gil1.
Soneson, H. M., & Fisher, S. (2011). Education abroad for students with disabilities: Expanding access. New Directions for Student Services, (134), 59-72. doi:10.1002/ss.395.
IS THE STUDY ABROAD USEFUL FOR MIDDLE EAST STUDENTS? 1
