The death penalty has been one of the most controversial debates throughout history. It has been drawing more and more attention in the world. Although many countries have abolished the death penalty, such as England, France and Germany, there are still some countries kept it. It relates to people's right and life. Many people are against the death penalty because they think the death penalty is an affront to justice; it is a display of the misuse of power. Other people agree with this punishment because they believe the death penalty is the best way to punish the prisoners who do the seriously crime. It is a still controversial of whether to abolish the death penalty or continue to use it. The death penalty is clearly the most cruel and inhuman way to punish serious prisoners. The life sentence is the best alternative the death penalty. So, the death penalty should be abolished because it is displays peaceful to human life, provides no benefits of country and is immoral.
The death penalty is one of oldest punishments in the world. The executioner can end a prisoner's life legally. The prisoners were killed, because they had committed serious crimes. Although the definition of "serious crimes" has always been disputed, many countries still keep the death penalty. Also, this punishment has already become a very important way to punish prisoner in some countries, such as China, Japan, and Singaporean and so on. A long time ago, human began to use the death penalty to punish prisoners that committed serious crimes. Different counties have different reasons why they apply the death penalty. Generally, intentional homicide is the primary reason for it. The website baike.com reviewed important information about the death penalty. According to the website, "more than 1000 prisoners were killed because intentional homicide every year in China". It is very great number. The criminal was sentence to capital punishment; it is the most important reasons that are the intentional homicide. It is the way criminal was sentence to the death penalty.
Why does the death penalty exist in the world? Because the people want to punish the one who committed heinous crimes in order to warn the other people do not do it again. It has been proved many times in the past that the relaxation of harsh laws has never led to an increase in crime. The website religioustolerrance.com display some date is very important. According to this website "Canada's homicide rate has dropped 27% since the death penalty was abolished in that country in 1976. For many years prior to 1976, the federal government had converted each death sentence to life imprisonment" (religioustolerance.org). Obviously, capital punishment does not protect anyone. It can be see that even though we use the death penalty are reduced crime rates still do not fall. However, when the death penalty is abolished, crime rates reduce. There has been a marked trend in society towards a more humane treatment of less fortunate members of society who may commit crimes. The same attitude characterizes our approach to crime.
Sometimes many the death penalty methods are very cruel and inhuman. The death penalty method inventor can not know how much pain the prisoners are feeling. They just know blood must atone for blood. For example, there were many different kinds of cruel methods of executing the death penalty was existed in China's past. For example "Lingchi, means to put to death by dismembering the body." (baike.baidu.com) Another example " Zhanyao, it is mean cut in two at the waist" (baike.baidu.com) These two cruel death penalty methods are used to punish the people committed heinous crimes in the past China. From a personal perspective, those death penalty methods are so cruel that people in a county have to live as carefully as they can in order to avoid punishment, because they cannot bear such a painful death like this. Currently, China still has the death penalty. They use lethal injection. It is not as cruel as before. However it is death method also does not respect the prisoner. The website showed the information about the lethal injection. According to this website "Many states' lethal injection procedures contain serious problems creating a significant risk of excruciating pain" Lethal injection still make suffer to the prisoners. It is still very cruel. Those death penalty methods also do not respect the prisoner as well. Is it illegal to murder, or are we justified in taking away the life of the murderer? No. Capital punishment helps create a bloody world.
The death penalty is a violent and brutal act that is against human moral principles and it does little good for the country. There should never be any reason for capital punishment. To suspension of capital punishment is enlightened, civilized and humane. Therefore, the death penalty should definitely be abolished, especially in this highly civilized society. The death penalty is an affront to justice. It is a display of the misuse of power. The website amnesty.org review the some important date:
"Portugal was the first European country to end this kind of penalty. More than two-thirds of the countries of the world have abolished the death penalty in law or in practice. While 58 countries retained the death penalty in 2009, most did not use it. Eighteen countries were known to have carried out executions, killing a total of at least 714 people."
Since the 19th century, more and more countries have abolished the death penalty. And more and more counties will abolish the death penalty in the future. Great numbers of people lived have been saved because the death penalty has been abolished.
People and organization like amnesty and international support the abolishment of the death penalty because this punishment is the immoral action. So, many people encourage the government to abolish the death penalty. The website hrea.com reviewed the important information about the people encourage the government to abolish the death penalty. According to the website "The first World Day Against the Death Penalty took place in 10 October 2003. This event was launched by the World Coalition Against the Death Penalty, which gathers international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), bar associations, unions and local governments from all over the world." (hrea) This information showed the many organizations and international began to abolish the death penalty. It is very important issue for people oppose the death penalty. We can see the gathers international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), bar associations, unions and local governments all planning to support the abolishment. They use parades and set the World Day Against the Death penalty to oppose the capital punishment. They hold their views that the death penalty does not respect the prisoner who kills others person. They believe the death penalty is immoral.
Tolerance and respect for life have been important values, in certain countries. Human rights became a particular priority. People began to respect and cherish life. The death penalty has been abolished in almost all European countries. Life sentences the best way to change the death penalty. There some reasons why we should use life sentence to instead of the death penalty. Life sentence use deprivation of freedom to punish the prisons, it is not only punishing the prisons but also do not immoral. The journal "creating hope for life sentence" reviewed important information about the life sentence. According to the journal: " Canada has contributed to low rates of recidivism using life sentence National Parole Board statistics from 1994 to 2009." (Broom, 324)This information showed that the life sentence can reduce the crime, when Canada use the life sentence the crime rate goes down. So, life sentence is best way to punish the prisoners. The life sentence also gives the prisons opportunity to turn over a new life. Not everybody is sage. Who can be entirely free from error? So give the prisons opportunity. Such as, if the young man were doomed to death, he will not have opportunity to turn over a new life. This is a waste of a life. Giving these people the opportunities to turn over a new life, maybe better.
Also, the life sentence is much cheaper than the death penalty. Some people think the life sentence will spend more money to keep the prisoners life. The death penalty just ends the prisoner's life. So they think the death penalty is cheaper than the death penalty. But California Commission on the Fair Administration of Justice reports,
Death Penalty is much more expensive than life imprisonment because the Constitution requires a long and complex judicial process for capital cases. This process is needed in order to ensure that innocent men and woman are not executed for crimes they did not commit, and even with these protections the risk of executing an innocent person can not be completely eliminated. (Marko, 251)
This information is display the death penalty needs more money to execute the prisoners. So whether the economic or human right the life sentence is better than the death penalty. So, the life sentence is best way to change the death penalty.
This is not a clear question. As we can see there are several values here and of course cultural behaviors. The world is divided and the law systems show those divisions. The death penalty is clearly the most cruel and inhuman way to punish those serious prisoners. Instead life sentence in prison is a better alternative to the death penalty. There are great of benefits in abolishing the death penalty, the death penalty is a violent and brutal act that is against human moral principles and does little good for the country. More and more people support the abolishment of the death penalty because this punishment is the immoral action. The life sentences instead of the death penalty are the best way to punish prisons. Life sentence is not only punishing the prisons but also gives the prisons opportunity to turn over a new life. It is also much cheaper than the death penalty. So the death penalty should be abolished because it is displays peaceful to human life, provides no benefits of country and is immoral.
As is well known, human right has become a particular priority and people began respecting and cherishing life. So based on the evidence prevented in this paper it is obvious to see the death penalty is immoral, cruel and inhuman. It is a practice contradicting an ethical code. So, the death penalty should be abolished. To help with this process people can write some letters to suggest to the government to abolish the death penalty. People can also write some essays or books to tell other people about the death penalty being very cruel, and that its practice should be abolished. In addition, to protest can against the death penalty, people can join parades it. And people can also tell their friends and family the death penalty is bad. Let's work together to abolish the death penalty.
Work cited
"Death Penalty." <http://baike.baidu.com> 2009. Web. 1 Nov 2010.
Potter, Stewart. "Capital Punishment." <http://capital-punishment.ne>. 2010. Web. 1 Nov 2010.
"Muslims Agree with Death Penalty." <http://capital-punishment.net>. 2010. Web. 1 Nov 2010.
"The Death Penalty in 2009." <http://www.amnesty.org> 2009. Web. 1 Nov 2010.
"The Death Penalty." <http://www.religioustolerance.org> 2005. Web. 1 Nov 2010.
"Lethal Injection and Problem of Constitutional Remedies" <http://papers.ssrn.com> 2009. Web. 1 Nov. 2010.
Milanovi?, Marko. "EXTRADITION AND LIFE IMPRISONMENT." Cambridge Law Journal 68. 2 (2009): 248-251. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 6 Dec. 2010.
Ruddell, Rick, Ian Broom, and Matthew Young. "Creating Hope for Life-Sentenced Offenders." Journal of Offender Rehabilitation 49. 5 (2010): 324-341. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 29 Nov. 2010.
