Can the Internet Improve Education or Not
In 1969 the U.S. Department of Defense created the Internet to connect with the army. The internet helps them to keep in touch with each other. After a few years, the U.S. Department of Defense allowed schools and universities to use the Internet to help education for scientific research. Therefore, most universities, colleges, and schools depend on the Internet to improve education. The Internet also enables students to learn at any time which the Internet available to teach them in 24 hours. Moreover, the Internet helps universities to exchange information with one another. The Internet keeps expanding for education and helping students to keep in touch with universities to get or share information by using the Internet. The Internet also became famous and fundamental in education because most universities and schools use the Internet to connect with each other or with students to get knowledge about education.
My position is that Internet has more advantages than disadvantages in education. However, some research proves the Internet can also hamper education. Today there is still a big debate between those who believe the Internet can be useful in education and those who say the Internet cannot be useful for education. Even though the Internet can hamper in some cases, it has many advantages to improve the education. I believe those who say the Internet can hamper education. Nonetheless, everything around the world has advantages and disadvantages that can affect our lives. That means we should utilize the Internet in the best way to help improve education for our posterity. We should be aware how much the education is important in our life. Which is the Internet can be helpful for many ways in education. What we need in the Internet to get high education such as knowledge how can we work with the Internet to improve our education in life.
There are people who do believe the Internet can affect education in a bad way. For illustration, the Internet can hamper education because there are many website that do not serve education. Students who want to find some sources by using the Internet may look at websites about their topics. For example, Wikipedia is an online encyclopedia that helps most students to find information. However, Wikipedia is not useful for students who want to get information because anyone can write on this website so it does not have credibility of information in web. According to Stovall, "Teachers and parents should insist on guiding students to reputable websites that end in suffixes such as .org, gov, or .edu, and to avoid open forum sources of information such as Wikipedia for academic research" (Stovall, 2012). Sometimes students may look in the wrong places to get information. Because of this students who do not know which websites have credibility, may get wrong information.
Nonetheless, the Internet helps students to look for research in an easier way than searching in books. Most students depend on looking for sources by using the Internet because it is the best way to save time in their studies, however, they may get incorrect information. There are many academic websites so students need experience to know how to choose the credible ones. It is not hard to find academic websites on the Internet, if teachers show students how to find good source. According to Mortimer"Students who have mastered the wonders of the internet at home know that with a desktop computer they can do everything faster --- take and save notes, write and do research" (Mortimer, 2005, p.28). Moreover, most students consider the Internet is the best way to improve their education. According to Barski "An online education means face-to-face instruction does not exist, nor does the ability to get instant feedback on class assignments in many situations" (Barski, 2012, para.3). As a result, the chart shows that majority of students would like to have more Internet access rather than the other options.
Figure 1 Chart shows most students want to get more Internet access source: NPR/Kaiser/Kennedy School Poll, 2000.
The education can improve without Internet. The Internet is not important to improve education. For illustration, there are some poor countries that cannot use the Internet but they are successful in education such as Egypt. Egypt is a poor country but it has a strong program dependent on old ways. Most students of Egypt become famous in the world. For example, some of them become doctors or professors of physics. As result, even though the foundation of education is based on old ways in which schools and universities cannot depend on the Internet, the education system is still successful.
In addition, the Internet can affect teachers. There are some teachers use the Internet in many ways in education but they can use it very well. According to Callahan "However, the Internet also has created difficulties for educators who must teach and grade skills that cannot be developed through the Internet or skills that may be diminished as a result of the Internet" (Callahan, 2012). For example, engineering or health care need practical application so teachers will find hard time when they teach by use the Internet. They also may have troubles when they connect with students by use email because they do not know how to use the Internet very well.
However, the Internet can be useful to education in many ways. The Internet helps teachers and students to connect with each other. Teachers think the Internet is the best way to keep in touch with their students. For example, in North Arizona University teachers and professors depend on the Internet to connect with their students to remind them about homework or class time. This shows the Internet is useful for teachers and professors. Also, students rely on the Internet to connect with teachers and other students. According to Langley "It's difficult to imagine that we ever had schools without the Internet. The Internet is such a driving force in education that without it, both educators and students would be at a loss" (Langley, 2012). In addition, the Internet has advantage to parents because they can keep in touch with schools to know the grades of their children and what is going on. Lui (1997) mention that the internet does a lot of things for students also has benefits to teachers and parents. Therefore, parents can use the Internet to be aware about their kids what happen in schools. This is the best way to help parents which keep in touch with schools.
Moreover, teens like to use the Internet in education. According to Simon, Grazian and Lenhart made a survey by asking questions to American teens. They found that "41% of online teens say they use email and instant messaging to contact teachers or classmates about schoolwork" ( Grazian, Lenhart & Simon, 2012.p.7). It is necessary for them to ask their teachers about classes. For illustration, students can ask teachers by using email about something they did not understand in class or they can make appointments to meet them. These are some evidences that show how the Internet is important for education. The Internet improves education faster than older ways.
Some people do not believe the Internet improves education improving because of plagiarism in education. Plagiarism is a big issue that effect all universities and colleges. Plagiarism means "the process of taking another person's work, ideas, or words, and using them as if they were your own" (dictionary website). Most people think the main reason for plagiarism is the Internet because it is very easy to plagiarize information from the Internet. According to Durkin "This includes everything from students who copy and paste a few sentences, to those who fork over premium beer money for custom-made papers University officials believe the rise in plagiarism is driven by the internet's accessibility" (Jessica, 2005, p.34). Even though there are some students do plagiarism because when most students when use online classes they may not understand teachers very well. So, they depend on the Internet to find information even they could not understand it or where came from. It is best way for them. This is one way the Internet can hamper education.
Nonetheless, the Internet is also the best way to catch who did the plagiarism. Most universities depend on the Internet because there are special programs to know where students pick up information or who wrote that. According to blackboard "Safe Assign is a plagiarism prevention service, offered by Blackboard to its Blackboard Learning System Enterprise, Vista Enterprise and CE Enterprise clients. This service helps educators prevent plagiarism by detecting unoriginal content in student papers" (Blackboard, 2011). This is one website that helps to catch plagiarism. Teachers use blackboard by download essays of students in the website to make sure students did not plagiarism on their essays. This website gives dateless to teachers where information came if students did plagiarism. This website is one of solutions to stop plagiarism. That means the Internet is useful to stop plagiarism by using the Internet. The internet can be utilized in good way to improve education.
Figure: Figure 2. This shows someone stealing some information from web/Internet Source: edutopia.org. Available online: http://www.edutopia.org/dispatches-beat-the-cheat
My position in this argument is the Internet is useful to education. As we know the Internet has a lot more advantages than disadvantages because the Internet has many ways to improve education. Everything around us has advantages and disadvantages but the problem is how to use it in good way. For example, there are some people who utilize the Internet in a good way to improve their skills of education. However, some people use the Internet in a bad way such as plagiarism in education. There are also some people how believe the education is face to face which they believe original way. The Internet make our life easier because we can save time in research which is it is helpful for education. The Internet help also students and teachers to connect each other. What I hope, students who use the Internet in a bad way, learn how to use the Internet to improve their education.
In the end, some people believe the Internet hampers education because there are many websites have wrong information. In addition, they believe the best way for education is face to face but students who use the Internet, they can save time in studies. It helps students; teachers and parents to keep in touch and also the Internet helps students for research. Moreover the Internet can stop plagiarisms by using some websites. On the other hand, the Internet is important in our life because it is fundamental to improve our life such as health care. Someday people use the Internet in good way. This is topic is very the Internet is helpful to improve education.
