School uniform
School uniform
In the past 90th the school uniform was for rich people, or the high class community. The school uniform was very expensive for the people who are from the lower class, and that make what makes the rich people are proud of their school uniform. However, there is like competition between United Kingdome, and United State. But there are many country they cannot have the money for the school uniform for example, Africa, because the quality it not enough for the students. However there is some people says school uniform are ugly, its make their children look like unaccepted look. However there are many people says school uniform it's not comfortable for children. That was little from what people did not like and there is some people says school uniforms make the students look like they boring and they also, they cannot make any friendship with other people.
However, in some Religions country or Religions schools them having same problems with school uniform look for example, in some catholic school. According to Kerry Weber" my mother's rebellious streak - she was a roller, but still - but because I couldn't fathom why anyone would want to wear a short uniform skirt. In my Catholic high school, as far as I was concerned, uniform skirts were worn long" they have an issue with skirt of the girl, some of the girl wanted as short skirt and some of the others wanted as special design. However in some country a Religions country for example, Saudi Arabia all the school of the girl they having different school uniform. But for the boys they wearing the school uniform it's called thob, and they wearing this school uniforms because all the schools they going with the rules of the law. In fact these many issues about the school uniforms, but these issues have solutions. Therefore the school a uniform has too many good things, so makes school uniforms are good for the students.
According to Yasmine Kalkstein "New York City adopted a policy in 1999 that allowed schools to vote on whether to opt out of a new school uniform policy. About 70 percent of the city's elementary schools adopted school uniforms". At this time there many schools start to solve these problems for example, in New York there many school or most of the schools solve this problems. But first they asked their students about the school uniform the students like, so then they start to do something smaller to what the student want. Now in New York it's easier to choose the school uniform they want, because school uniform start to be fashion or pert of fashions. So that makes the school uniform become easier to choose. But is it required to wear school uniform? According to Werneck, Mikayla "If uniforms were required, kids wouldn't get made fun of for what they were wearing because they would all be wearing the same thing. It would increase school spirit. Kids wouldn't be distracted by what other kids were wearing. Uniforms would help kids focus more on school" In U.S. some of the schools they required to wear school uniforms for the student, because some of these school are think when the students wearing school uniforms the student will become not confusing and they will concerting in their classes.
According to Werneck, Mikayla "Kids at many other U.S. schools also have to wear uniforms. The goal is to keep them focused on school, not fashion, and to cut down on bullying. However, critics say wearing uniforms stops kids from expressing themselves. The school uniforms will reduce some problems that can make the student do for example, the students who wearing the school uniforms they will stop bullying in the schools, because this one of the issues most of the schools have.
In spite of the other schools they cannot stop this problem. However, there is another theory, and this theory talking about problems most of the students have its expressing themselves this problem was unable to solve, but there some schools made Experiment of this problems these schools made a new temporary role, and that roles says everyone should wear school uniform, and it was just for two weeks. So after two weeks most the teachers and the directors were satisfied with those consequences. This short Experiment shown that school uniforms can solve many problems, and that was part of these problems. In fact there is some of the source says the school uniform can spirit the student when they be in the class room, because the students will concerting in the class, and they will stop looking to what the other student wear, because the students wouldn't be distracted by what other kids were wearing, even if they like colors and being in fancy clothes.
Moreover, in some country there is a religious issue with Muslims uniforms especially with Muslims girls for example, French, according to Lieve, Gies "The French headscarf controversy which eventually resulted in 2004 in a legal ban on all religious symbols in state schools (Lyon and Spini, 2004) was not explicitly mentioned by either the Court of Appeal or the House of Lords in this appeal". Recently there is some issues happened with Muslim girls with their school uniforms. The problem was about the hijab in French in most of the schools they didn't allow to the Muslims girls put hade cover with their school uniforms. Therefor everyone should feel the comfortably in his schools uniforms. However in some catholic schools they having some problems with their school uniforms, and this problem about the skirt of the girls, some of the girls want to wear short skirt. In fact there many people against this ideas, because they think if the students start wearing short skirt that will reflect this catholic school picture negatively front of everyone.
However the school uniform should be in a good look, and convenient for the student at the same time. However in Saudi Arabia they had only problem with the school uniform of the girl, and that problem was about the color of the uniforms, because most of the girls student they did not like the color of their school uniforms, but the government solve this problem by make each level have special color for instance, blue for the elementary schools, pink for the intermediate schools, and yellow for the high schools. In addition the schools uniforms of the boys are the same they wearing thob, but in these days this start to be kind of fashion for them they having small design but that did not change anything because they still wearing the uniforms of the school. However there many people say the school uniform makes our children look like ugly student. According to Kalkstein, Yasmine "in 1995, Long Beach, Calif., became the first large urban school district to require uniforms for all students in kindergarten through eighth grade. Five years later, overall crime in the school district had dropped by 91 percent. Suspensions were down90 percent, sex offenses had been reduced by 96 percent, and vandalism had gone down 69 percent., in long beach, California, there is a school having too many problem and one of this problem was a sexual problem, and this is was 98% of their problem, so one of the ideas they had to solve this issue was a school uniform, they made school uniforms with good looking and very respectful uniform, so the resolute surprise them very much, because when the students wear the school uniforms these issue start reducing lower and lower until 10%, and was very good result.
But there is some schools using the school in different way for example, to giving the identification of the schools. In the past 90th there are some schools using the school uniform in different way for example, to give the identification of the school. In addition this is a very good idea, and that can make the field trip something easy. However there is no difficulty when the school wants to make felid trip, because when the student go anywhere everybody will know where they are come from. However people will know which school they come from.
Moreover when the student wear the school uniform and it was very beautifully that will reflect the picture of the school very positively front of everyone. People may say school uniform make our children look like in jail. On the other hand school uniforms for some schools are very ugly, and that can make the student looking badly. So schools should choose something convenient for both side parents and children. But should the school uniform be required in the elementary schools? The school uniform is something very good for the student at elementary schools, because its make them looking nicely. However if their school uniform looking good most of the parents will like it, and school uniform will show the organization of the school. So that will answer the question yes the student at the elementary school they should wear the school uniform.
In United Kingdom they teach the children how the school uniforms are very convenient, and respectful. However in United Kingdom they think the school uniforms can make a good environment for the children. In addition, they also think that school uniform can make the burden gone for the parents. So that a very good point to show how the school uniform part of attitude for the children when they study in the schools. However in the United Kingdom for some school or elementary school, the school made a special school uniform they make the girls wearing a red skirt, and white shirt, and the boys wearing white Pants, and red shirt, but what is the special thing in this school uniform? According to Walmsley, Angela "Students walk the school hallways in an orderly fashion, dressed professionally in uniforms consisting of blazers with the school's crest and skirts for girls and trousers for boys. They don't walk with hands in their pockets". The student they did not have any pocket in their school, but why? Because that will show the student how they respect each other because when the student having a conversation with the teachers or other people the student did not put their hands in their pocket, and that show to respect the people.
In fact there some schools using the school uniform as address of their schools, and by using this thing that will help the schools in two different things, first if the child who wearing the school uniform of the school getting lose for any reasons every one will know where this child school, and this helpful for the school, and the other thing is when the student wearing the school uniform of the school, people may like this school, however this Idea will give the parents a good picture of the school, and they like, then start thinking about this school positively for their children.
Moreover many people say things like, the school that has these thing about the school uniform getting too expensive. On the other hand these days there many schools has the school uniform but some of these school they take too much many, and no one can solve these problem because that depend on the owner of the school or the educations there. However in the U.S. they having problem with or confusing about this kind of idea because some people says the government cannot encouraging this idea because in poor areas they cannot pay for the school uniform they event did not have the money of their food, according to Walmsley, Angela "For example, a family can buy a summer jumper for about $6. Trousers cost about $12. Because of competition, uniform costs go drastically down. Parents can usually buy school-specific items through the school at a reduced cost. At a recent school fair (carnival) at my children's school, used items were about 75 cents per item". in the United Kingdom the school help the parents to get the school uniforms to their children by using simple thing or less money to get the school uniforms.
In conclusions there many things people may having problem with it, and the school uniform was part of these problem, in fact, in the past this is was a big problem, with these days everyone have an ideas about this problem, people solve the looking problems, however some people solved some issues. In spite of the other people who cannot find any solution about this issue for instance, in French the government did not allow to the girl to go their schools because the government did not like what they want. However, the school uniform shows the respect for the other side even if this side was a teacher or student, and the stranger people as will.
The connection between the student and the school uniform are very important, and that can make the government made new roles for the public school to start wearing school uniforms because this will reflect the picture of the school positively when the student start wearing the school uniform, however there many design can any school choose. So this controversy issue start to become easier and easier. There is no difficulty with school uniform and there are many children like the school uniforms of their school, and this is one of the reasons can make the parents feel happy with their children. Therefore we can see the benefit of the school uniform, beautiful, respectful, and comfortable for the children's.
