Since the middle of the 20th century, when the video games produced, people have been unconsciously influenced by video games. Video games ignite strong passions because when people play games they have a lot of fun. Recently the games design style and gamer role characteristic are varying more and more. For example, the kinds from television to PC, PS3, Xbox, Wii, PXP,3DS, Mobile and the gamer player from single advancing to multiplayer. People can not deny video games are big part of contemporary culture. When the family plays together and stays together what do they do to become interested in a topic surrounded by parents and their children. Most of vacation, if parents not have plan go out play, they choose play video games with their children. Video games include violent games and non-violent games. So some parents disagree that video games have good influences on their children. Other parents worry about the bad effects of the games on their children; the serious consequences are harder to accept. There is no doubt that current children are going to be gamers for most of their lives. Statistics research result by the BBC reveals that 100% of all 6 to 10-year-olds play games (BBC). Despite what opponents say, playing video games is harmful for young people in regards to violent and deceive behavior and in regards to a sedentary lifestyle that can contribute to high blood pressure, arhythmia and obesity.
Some researcher support that children are easily being impacted by these games. Some studies indicate that some video games are very violent and have a harmful effect on players. In violent video games, children can enjoy killing people such as Assassin's Creed II, World of Warcraft, Mortal Kombat, Fallout 3, Dragon Age-Origins etc. Those games consist of fighting revenge violent action and killing enemy(Wiki Cheats). Those game are designed to kill people to such a huge number that the player can achieve award. Brad Bushman, a psychologist at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, and his colleagues investigate about more than 300 studies of video games. They said that, "Maneuvering through a game requires kids to take action, identify with a character, and respond to rewards for rough behavior" (Sohn). This means those games are designed to motivate and promote aggress behavior. Bushman also worries about if children indulge in these violent video games, the children will become violent in character when he says "In a video game, you naturally identify with the violent character, and identification with violent characters increases aggression" (Sohn). From Bushman point out that violent video games should be restricted when children play them. There also some examples that show a few young people can destroy their families because of their deceive behavior. Some newspaper report that the police have found three victims were attacked by a group of teenagers(Jen).
Argues that these teenagers committed rob and to hurt people because they play a lot of video games and thus they cannot recognize the line between the real world and the fantasy world of video games (Jen). Because the video games affect them to hurt people and steal the money from the shop, their parents should have limited their children to play these games(Jen). Those behavior are wicked and serious when young people fling caution to the winds for doing. But some people deem non-violent video games can bring beneficial for young children.
Opponents, such as educators consider video games as a positive activity in the classroom because people admit not all the video games are violent. They allow many of skills such us problem solving, analytical thinking, multitasking are employers are looking for. So educators are responding by using video games into structured classroom activates. Avoiding games that involve violence, schools are experimenting with various video games such as Sim City which teach creative problem solving and other worthwhile skills by forcing students to formulate and revise hypotheses(Haugen). Video games reinforce self-confidence and compel children to focus attention on an activity. Used properly in the classroom, video games have the power to keep student engaged in learning(Haugen). In addition, the opponents do not agree video games cause violent behavior. The reason is video games are not all violence, and some video games can teach children science and life common sense through the games. Rashawn Blanchard is writer, he writes on gaming, music, pop culture, and social issues for Associated Content. Haugen argued that(as cited in Blanchard) indicate that some games help children learn new skills. According to Blanchard said "In the 90's and even still to a degree today, elementary school children can be seen practicing their karate kicks even though they've had no martial arts training"(Haugen). In David's statement, he thought some video games are conducive to helping children to emulate good behavior. For example children like to play game in school with their classmate. Children expect to learn new knowledge and skills in games. Haugen also approve of when Blanchard said that "The most important notion, however, is that as human beings(not as games) there is a distinct realization between video game violence and real life violence" (Hagen). On the basis of Hagen meaning, children have ability to identified the virtual world with real world. Children can realize violent behavior is not good for their real-life. But the non-violent video games are have some disadvantage, they also make students spent time on games not on sports.
Furthermore there are other factors that video games influence on children. Playing video games can detrimentally impact children's health. The supporter of the debate states playing video games lead to many diseases in children such as obesity and heart rate problems. Some researcher find play video games can cause heart rate and high blood pressure problems. Borusiak concedes that there have unhealth effects when young people paly video games. The studies show long time play video stimulate children heart rate and rise blood pressure(Borusiak). Borusiak points out that video games produce harmful consequence like acute heart rate and blood pressure. For this reason play video games cause children heart rate problem and high blood pressure. Green show that, "Children on the average spend up to five or six hours a day involved in sedentary activities, including excessive time watching television, using the computer, and playing video games. To make matters worse, children are bombarded with well-crafted television ads from fast food chains and other purveyors of high fat, high sugar-meals or snacks" (Green). Green show that video games make children eat high fat food and no exercise. Because of children play games for such a long time it can result in long periods of having no exercise, so children become obese. Undeniable that playing video games a long time make children lack of exercise. When children immerse themselves in games, they often ignore the time and other things. So some people appeal when children play video games they need to limit the time and do more exercise. Even though some evidence show play video games are bad effect on children health, people find object to video games are not good for children health.
The objector put forward the against point with playing video games are harmful effect on children's health. They use an example to demonstrate playing video games can have a positive effect on children's health. Charlene O'Hanlon write about "In 2004, West Virginia added the video game Dance Dance Revolution to its middle-school physical education curriculum. The interactive game targets students' coordination, stamina, and balance and raises their confidence in gym class"(Charlene O'Hanlon). Hanlon imply such as the video game DDR are help children do the aerobic activity it will help children far away for illness. Hanlon also said "Kids who participate in physical activity during the school day show an increase in concentration and in their ability to learn"(Charlene O'Hanlon). The author display there have other good impact that is play DDR can help children focus attention on their brain. Therefore, some people thought about playing video games can help children like sports and other skills.
Violent Video Game Law Divides Supreme Court
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eo OTu Uoiito
This video show the State of California make a low to prohibit sell violent video games toyoung people.
On account of the bad effect on children behavior, some people find some ways to work out how to reduce probability youthful offender and enhance children health. There have some advise to parents how to control their children not play violent video games. On October 7, 2005, the State of California make a low to prohibit sell violent video games. The punishment is pay up to $1000per transgression (Columbia 20007). This legislation protect young people not influnced by those violent video games. The parents can help their children far away violence and act of indecency. Not only do children like playing games, but also adults. Sometimes parents are willing to play games with the children. The survey display parents play games odds more than non-parents.
Parents play on more devices
Parents playing with children can effective on their time and their emotion. The family use games time to increase their relationship. Also parents can interchange their feeling and teach their children skill and Living truth.
The dispute about many factos show play video have adversely effect on children. Such as violent and trick behavior, high bllod pressure and cardiac disorders and adiposity. Playing video games are effect on family. Parents have responsibility to look after their children. They often plan their children future. But the environment are full of allure. The parents agree that playing video games can have adverse effects on children's behavior. For example lead violent behavior, obesity and heart rate problem. The community needs to provide a good environment and resource to make them grow healthy in body and mind.
