Women Driving In Saudi Arabia
''Not every nation and not every culture grants women the rights that they enjoy'' (Walker, 2011, p1.). Driving a car became the most popular method of transport for many years, it's kind of technology made to help people achieve their unique needs in this modern life. Saudi Arabia is the biggest country in Middle East and the only country in the world that prohibits women from driving. Women driving in Saudi Arabia one of the biggest issues has been discussed for a long time by several kind of people: journalists, writers, and human rights both men and women. Many people in Saudi Arabia would let women to drive and get their right because the success of the women is foundational to making the community more successful. This issue it's important to me as a woman, I need to get my rights in this life without restrictions. So in my essay I'm going to argue that the other side who wouldn't women to drive.
Scholars who are highest religious authority and work at a religious council in Saudi Arabia, given the religious ruling that women driving would be open to harassment and lead to mixing of genders. We all admit that Saudi Arabia is the country governed by Islam and culture. So when Islam came to these earth in Muhamad's life everything was simple, what I mean here is that there no different between people both gender and color even the dealing with women she has more respect than this days. Also they were work with men and they didn't face any trouble because Islam came with the regulations and provisions for men and women and the Muslims follow them at that time. But in these days became hard to control people behavior like before because it was one person who put the roles and people where respect him because he was completely different but now there are many scholars and each person have different way of dealing, some scholars cannot make harsh punishment to men when they make mistakes with women, so they are prefer to prevent Saudi women from their rights instead of look at and follow the law of the Islam. So in Saudi Arabia we already have some work places that mixing between men and women and there is no guarantee that women will not be harassment. Another example is that At the Grand Mosque in Mecca, where Muslims every year came to perform their Pilgrimage. They walk in the mosque men and women together and there is some sexual harassment happens for some women inside this place, does the religious police prevent women to go to the mosque? Of course not.
Figure 1, the Grand Mosque in Mecca
There is no evidence in Islam prevent women from driving. the Islamic religion provides freedom of man as born free to live free and die free, and freedom of expression and movement controls by legitimacy, the goal that no more than one side, and give the human rights, freedom of the individual respect and it respects the freedom of the group provided that they do not cause his freedom harm to others. Islam gave women their rights such as inheritance, as well as exemption from alimony even if they are rich. When Islam came to this earth women were ride a horse and she went to the army, also the women participated in social and cultural life. Al-Muhhamad argues," If all women were given the rights the Qur'an guarantees us, and not be supplanted by tribal customs, then the issue of whether Saudi women have equal rights would be reduced" ( Al-Muhhamad,2009, p5.). Additionally the last prophet of God his name is Muhamed, the person who presents the words of God and all Muslim must follow him in this life. He was sometime let his wife to receive his speech to Muslims. During his life time when there were no cars, horses and camels were the only means of transport, and the blessed members of the Prophet's family, his wives and daughters used them. In fact Muhammad commented "The best women who ride camels are the women of Quraysh" ( Faruqui, 2010, P6). It means that he supports women to be Independent. So the issue of Saudi women driving a car is the issue of human rights in the first place and which stems from the modern human rights in Islam as a right to own property and freedom of movement. Al-gassemi, a writer and Arab affairs commentator, said that "I want my wife to be independent and that's why I want her to drive." ( Setrakian, 2011, P9).
There is no law to prevent women driving cars, For example, Al-Sharif-Manal, information security consultant in the Saudi Aramco and women's rights activist and writer in Saudi Arabia contributed to the launch of the "I will lead my car myself," led to demand to allow women to a car in Saudi Arabia. When she start to invite women through the Facebook for demonstration and demand their right because there is no traffic laws make it illegal for women to drive in Saudi Arabia it is related to culture and ruling on that by the government not to Islam rules. So in one day she decided to take on the issue by posting on You Tube a video of herself driving the Saudi streets. Then the police officers arrested her but they couldn't judge her as a guilty, they just let her to sign and leave.
Figure 2, the largest women's demonstration of the demands to driving since November 1990 in Riyadh, (AFP, 2011)
Not all Saudi women seeking to drive cars. There are many Saudi women who prefer to be with drivers to feel like a princess, their drivers take them everywhere without complaint. Also Saudi society is afraid to change the situation. We all recognize that that every new thing comes to the community have a reaction such as what happened with the Internet and other technology has been the Saudi community reaction in the beginning to deal with it but when they know about the cons and pros they accepted as a useful thing. Basmah Omair, director of the al Sayeda Khadija bin Khawlid Center at the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce said, "Saudi society has been isolated from the rest of the world and, as a result, the majority of the people are reluctant to change," she said. "They are wary of change, thinking that this would erode their values and their customs. The culture of fear of the unknown, fear of being too Westernized or that our values would be compromised, has been indoctrinated in people's minds by hardliners and extremists." ( Arrott, 2011, P11). But in fact there are single moms, divorced women, daughters with father who are sick, wives who need to care for their husbands, mothers who have to attend to their children's school meetings. All of them have reasons for their demand to drive. Also this society need to be able to change, it just a matter of time for this issue to be acceptable.
According to Saleh, "Women and their children are at the mercy of sexual harassment by these foreign drivers", (Saleh, 2007, P4). because this foreign person who works in each family has not seen his wife for years he will have problem facing sexual because the state does not allow for certain segments of them drivers bring their wives to the Kingdom. So he is far away from his wife that will Saudi women in risk. But when women drive they protect themselves from many problems. Fouzia al-Ayouni, a retired school administrator, said "It is much safer, and more appropriate, for women to chauffeur themselves and their children around." (Saleh, 2007, P10) . Also many women support their entire families and can't afford paying half their salary to a driver; some women getting in debt to pay to drivers; they must also provide to him housing, food and ticket so it cost a lot of money. Additionally Saudi Women are afraid of foreign driver's request to return to his country because they will deprive of their right to move. Especially if they are employee who have to go daily to work.
Overall, The Issue for women driving in Saudi Arabia has been controversial for both genders. Priorities are different for different people, their think, customs and social considerations, what is a priority for some people is a luxury to others, and a waste of time other. It means the government should let women driving optional to people and put very strict laws to be taken before these steps to facilitate the process on Saudi society.
First, as I said earlier the government should looking to this case as a humanitarian issue, which is a benefit to the community. Secondly, make strict laws for any person who try to harassment of women. Third, the establishment of driving schools for women also they can at least let the community a chance to try and then the government decide to acceptance or rejection. As a result this society will be able to accept that women driving to get infrastructure ready. Also a lot of people began to comprehend and see the things look realistic and purely religious without attention to detail that are not small the same subject. Law to drive in all parts of the world does not impose on the man or the woman presumably, the law allows him to drive if he wants or wishes to do so after meeting the conditions governing such license. The women driving cars is a very simple and its positive impact on the nation socially, economically and culturally.
