One Child Policy in China
Nowadays, the population growth is one of the serious problems in China today. Because the China already has more than 1. 3 billion people, the population growth causes not only, urban and traffic to increase but also a decrease in energy supply. In response, the Chinese government uses the One Child Policy to control the population growth. This policy was launched in 1980. The One Child Policy means "Communist Youth League members can just have only one child, in a bid for improving the living standard" (Xinhua News Agency, 2010). And this policy means each family can only have one child. Also, it promotes late marriage, late births and using the birth control pills to solve the population growth problem. However, some people disagree with this policy and they hold that having children is their own choice. The One Child Policy in China is not a new argument. And, the One Child Policy causes gender imbalance, problems for the elderly, and quality of new births. But, if the Chinese government doesn't use the One Child Policy to control the increasing population, this will affect the quality of people's living standard when the population exceeds the required subsistence production rate. Therefore, the One Child Policy is not only conducive to the health of humans and the job market, but it is also related to economics. So, those people should follow the One Child Policy and use this policy in people's life, because the government uses the One Child Policy to decrease population and control the population growth and it is benefit for China.
The One Child Policy really has helps for China, this policy helps China decreased more people also which is means help China reduce lots of stress. "The 1- child policy has prevented 400 million births in the world's most populous country, the Chinese newspaper Global Times reported" (UPI News Track, 2010). The China already prevented 400 million births when used One Child Policy and it is most in the world's populous country. This is report is a good evidence for prove the One Child Policy is better choice to control population growth.
After use One Child Policy, the China really has huge change. Because China has a large population for lots of years, it is already a big problem for China's development and people's living standard, so the Chinese government should use the One Child Policy to control population growth. This is government's way of improving people's lives. After using the One Child Policy, people's life expectancy grew: "When this policy was launched, China had largely improved, and the average life expectancy in China has surpassed 73 years, equivalent to the level of a moderately developed country" (Xinhua News Agency, 2010). This means people's living standard has already been enhanced. Also, the people's education has been extended: "People over 15 years of age received 4. 5 years of education on the average in the late 1970s. Now, they receive 8. 5 years of education" (Xinhua News Agency, 2010). This means children can study more years which is a good way for people, so the One Child Policy allows children to have a better education.
From other perspective, after use the One Child Policy, there has been decrease in poor people, according to the author, "the One Child Policy has helped millions of Chinese come out of poverty. 30 years ago, 250 million people were in poverty, today there are 15 million" (Xinhua News, 2008). That means after use the One Child Policy, there are many people come out of poverty, on the other side "China 's per capita GDP reached 2,400 U.S. dollars in 2007, However, if without the policy , that figure, according to official calculations, would have been 1,800 U.S. dollars" (Xinhua News, 2008). This explains China's GDP has increased when used the One Child Policy. From this information people should know use the One Child Policy and if do not use have totally different, so government really need this policy to control national conditions, and if everybody abide by this policy very well, then the China will develop very fast, also people will have a better living standard than before, so people should support the One Child Policy.
The population growth will also cause environmental pollution. The population growth causes the environmental degradation. "More people mean less forest, water, soil, and other natural resources, but more waste, pollution, and greenhouse gases" (Knol, 2009). It shows people already felt the environment pollution is a problem for everybody, the forest, water, soil and other resources are decreased, and the pollution are rising gradually. Because of the population growth, industrial, urban and traffic pollution will sharply increase and this is the cause of arable land decreasing. While at the same time, people's demands for food will also increase. Because of the food supply, people need more arable land to plant the food. However, "The circular link between poverty and environment is an extremely complex phenomenon" (Knol, 2009). This is true phenomenon, these two things has really closed relationship because the poverty and environment will lead to effect with each others. There is critical link between these factors, and if these two things are not balance, there will be problems.
In addition, inappropriate land reclamation will destroy the ecological balance, resulting in land desertification, soil sanitization and so on. In recent years, with population growth and consumption level, there is a rapid increase in energy consumption. The energy may be used up in the short term and at the same time, it will also increase environmental pollution problems, such as the burning of production and life fuels, also "depleting water sources, receding underground water tables, pollution of rivers and lakes, desertification, accelerating extinction of species, rising emission of greenhouse gases and fast disappearing natural resources. All these are obstacles to economic development and environmental protection" (China daily, 2010). Above theses problems will influence national development and people's life. People must take into account about environment problem and need to bring into effect. However, the One Child Policy will help to control the population growth and lighten the impact on environmental pollution.
The population growth will also cause the social problems such as unemployment and poverty. "Lack of opportunities for gainful employment in villages and the ecological stresses is leading to an ever-increasing movement of poor families to towns"(Konl, 2010). Some people in villages do not have job so they are forces to move to cities. The job stresses in the city will increase. Population growth will decrease average mineral resources and purchasing power and this is the reason for unemployment. "Inequality may foster unsustainability because the poor, who rely on natural resources more than the rich, deplete natural resources faster as they have no real prospects of gaining access to other types of resources"(Konl, 2010).
People who cannot find a job to support their families may cause divorce problems. The level of unemployment will cause reduction in people's quality of life so that people will not have financial protection, then the development of soicety can not improve any more. So the One Child Policy is only one way to control population growth and ensure people have better living standard, "Let's see what the benefits of the two objectives are. First, a decreased population would ensure higher average personal income. Second, it would help improve the environment, guaranteeing people a better quality of life" (China daily, 2010). Therefore, there will be a increase in national income, social spending and the companies can expand production. Therefore the One child policy will be the best solving for these problems and even increasing the national income.
Otherwise, the gradual rise of world population lead to the food supply is not enough, "Before the 1970s only 10 countries produced more food than they consumed. Within two decades of a new breed of modified crops being introduced, global food supply had doubled. But population growth failed to keep up" ( Peak oil News, 2010). This problem is really important, because if the food supply can not continue, then the world will be deep in crisis. So people really need to concern this problem which is bringing some trouble to people's life.
Another disadvantage of the One Child Policy is the age-old problem. This will decrease the labor force and also decrease benefits. "Because of the One Child Policy, there are more people who will be older in the future, so China's elderly care services face big pressure in coming years" (China daily, 2010). Part of problem for the elderly is their lack of child care and life has become difficult because the body is no longer as in youth and they develop more health problems. Violent beatings, abandonment and even killing will happen to those old people. Some young people in this society do not give way to the old people and even treat them badly. Another problem is the One Child Policy leads to gender imbalance, because after used One Child Policy, it has big influence for gender balance, "In place since 1979, the " one child " rule has prompted many Chinese to practice sex selection, using ultrasound screenings to determine whether the fetus is a boy or girl and then aborting females or abandoning them after birth to orphanages. More than 35,000 forced abortions were performed in China each day in 2009" (Artemisia, 2010). This explain the parents want to son in China, but when the One Child Policy launched, they could not have more choice, so using ultrasound screenings to determine the fetus is a boy or girl, if a girl the parents will abandoning them. So there were lots of forced abortions performed each day in China. And also the number of man amounts to more than women, that means some men will not be able to get married, which is a big problem for people, "By 2020, an estimated 35 million Chinese men will be unable to find wives" (Kathleen E. Mc Laughlin, 2010). This report clearly show there will more men will be single and if they want find wives I think it is really difficult, so that is important issues for China.
The One Child Policy will help the government control the population growth. According to Thomas Malthus, an English philosopher from the early 19th century, "unchecked population growth would lead to worldwide famine and disaster" (Peakoil, 2010). If the population growth is not controlled it will cause many problems like environmental pollution, unemployment and poverty, lower living standard, and decrease the national income. However, the One Child Policy will also help to protect the environment and bring up people's living standard. This will protect people's health and ensure a happily life. So, people should support the One Child Policy and abide by this policy.
Reference
"Population troubles could threaten harmony." (2007. November 14). China daily. Retrieved from
"China's achievements in population development after 30 years of the one child policy." (2010. September 25). News bank. Xinhua News Agency. Retrieved from <http://libproxy.nau.edu:2185/iw-search/we/Info Web?p_product=AWNB&p_theme=aggregated5&p_action=doc&p_docid=1327C9FA97A34118&p_docnum=1&p_queryname=1>
"China 's family planning policy benefits country, world: official." (2008, Oct 23). Xinhua News Agency. Retrieved from
"Population growth and environmental degradation" (2009, Feb 20). Partha Das Sharma. Retrieved from
"Population growth is an age-old problem, get used to it" (2010, Oct 7). Peak Oil News. Retrieved from
"We need to reduce, not increase, population" (2010, Feb 1). China daily. Retrieved from <http://infoweb.newsbank.com/iw-search/we/Info Web?p_product=AWNB&p_theme=aggregated5&p_action=doc&p_docid=12ECB61DABF77670&p_docnum=24&p_queryname=6>
"Borderland: Sex trafficking on the China-Myanmar border"(2010, Oct 26). Kathleen E. Mc Laughlin. Retrieved from
"Protecting women and girls in China, where one child per family is the rule - and a boy the preference."(2010, August 16). Artemisia, Christian Science Monitor, The (Boston, MA). Retrieved from
