Education in Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia has developed over the past 50 years; it has evolved from a simple life to a lifestyle centered on technology. And, it is on one of the final stages to extend its education (Prokop 79). Although the past educational system is the same as it now, Saudi Arabia launched a program to increase the opportunity to get into schools by building more schools. The economical changes after World War II have reformed everybody's life. One of the crucial things that has changed is education. Saudi Arabia has chosen the right role model country to follow: America. Al-Jarf, a professor at King Saud University, notes that the Saudi school system follows the American models, consisting of 6 years of primary school, 3 years of middle school, and 3 years of high school (Al-Jarf). The education system is also based on the country's religion: Islam. Secondary schools provide Islamic education and other Arabic studies for students. Additionally, schools provide other general classes. Children begin their education at the age of six, and that starts at kindergarten and ends either in high school or in the university. After university, students begin to look for a career. Nowadays, in Saudi Arabia, companies prefer employees who have received a certification outside of Saudi Arabia over those who obtained it from Saudi Arabia. This is an indication that shows that education in Saudi Arabia is not good enough.
Education decides which path that a person's life should take. Even in people's personal lives, education is extremely important. To illustrate the importance of education in the engagement process, let us examine the following example. In the Saudi Arabian culture, there are many cases where the family of the bride will not accept a groom unless he has a bachelor's degree or above because the family wants to guarantee their daughter's future. Also, many families will not allow their sons or daughters to get engaged until they have completed higher education. That is, education is essential because everything now depends on education. Therefore, this paper will examine the low education standards in Saudi Arabia, and argue that the Saudi education system needs to be improved by changing how people get to universities, prepare students for universities, decrease the gap between education in Saudi Arabia and education in America, and how the economy might help to change the education.
In Saudi Arabia, getting into a university depends on the grades earned in the last two years in high school, the Aptitude Test -Math and Arabic language, and Achievement test- which tests what students have been studying in three years of high school in the areas of Math, Physics, Chemistry, English, and Biology. One clear aspect that education in Saudi Arabia is feeble, is the student's acceptance to secondary education. For example, the entry requirements at King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM) are: the grades earned in the last two years in high school (20%), Aptitude Test (30%), and the Achievement test, which counts as 50% of their grading scale. Those proportions ensure that Saudi Arabia must advance its education and system because students' focus on high school grades and universities take a lower percentage of it, which is unfair. Ali Al Haddad, a student who recently began studying at NAU, could not get to KFUPM because of that calculation. To be more specific he got 97% in the last two years in high school, he acquired 80% in the Aptitude Test, and 78% in the Achievement test. As a result, his average was 82.4% he needed at least 83% to get to the KFUPM. Al Haddad stated that, "It was my dream to get to that university, so I studied hard in high school, but look what high school is-nothing." This is significant because it shows how Saudi Arabia needs to improve high school education to benefit students.
Another aspect of why the Saudi Arabian educational system should be improved is the orientation year when students usually study in English all the subjects that they have studied in high school. A possible alternative would be to teach these subjects in English in high school. This is a problem because it is unnecessary that students retake what they have been taken in high school. That aspect exhibits that Saudi Arabia might have some changes to globalize its education. A solution would be to teach the subjects in English in high school. As a result, students can have more experience in the subjects in English and even in English language.
Many people believe that English is the global language; that means if anybody speaks English fluently, they do not need to speak another language or to be bilingual in any country. Even though Saudi Arabia has started to teach English, it is not taught in the right way. Shaw mentioned after interviewing Saudis,
English is a required component of all Saudi Arabian middle and high school curriculum, and many elementary schools now include English lessons. Thus, all participants took English classes for at least 6 years. The number of years of English study, however, did not ensure language competency nor did it guarantee high enough TOEFL scores (133).
This quote displays that Saudi Arabia has a weak English education because it teaches English, but the fact is that its students do not have any progress in English language. Therefore, recently, studying abroad has grown in popularity all over Saudi Arabia. However, most Saudi students encounter difficulties learning English regardless of where they live. So, Saudi Arabia should have a preparation year to help Saudi students who are willing to study abroad or who have a scholarship to study abroad (Shaw 133). The scholarships program, called the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, given by the higher education ministry (Krieger 2).
Many people consider America to be the provider of the best education, so it is a great model that can be used to measure other countries' educational systems by comparing them to America's educational systems.
University
Country
Rate in Country in 2009
Rate in the world in 2009
Harvard University
America
First
First
King Saud University
Saudi Arabia
First
247
Yale university
America
Second
Third
King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals
Saudi Arabia
Second
266
(QS World Universities)
The table above was taken from the QS World Universities ranking which illustrates that King Saud University, the number one university in Saudi Arabia, ranked 247, whereas Harvard University ranked first among all universities (Ramady 441). Even if we compare other universities in both countries such as the second in each, there is still a big difference between their rates. Consequently, this reveals that there is a larger gap in the quality of education in Saudi Arabia and America which makes education in Saudi Arabia ineffective compared to America.
Education is segregated by sex in Saudi Arabia. The education that boys receive is usually different from that of girls. In recent years, however, the standards of education have risen to conform to national standards. The American educational system differs from the Saudi educational system in that both sexes are offered equal opportunities to study. In other words, in Saudi Arabia there are no co-educational [men and women] schools. To be more specific, males and females in Saudi Arabia are not taught the same thing. For example, males take a subject called citizenship class while females do not. On the other hand, females take a subject called house duties class. Women are at a disadvantage for the job market because they are taught information about how to take care of the house, whereas men are learning the necessary skills for a career. Another difference in these two systems is that the Saudi educational system offers an Islamic education for all, which might be one of the reasons that education is limited in Saudi Arabia. Islam is integrated into the educational system, which makes it difficult for students to learn the skills needed for a career because they are busy learning about religion. This makes the educational system in Saudi Arabia worse because these schools are focusing on religion versus teaching typical subjects such as math and chemistry. The U.S. in some cases may offer religious education, however the curriculum is not solely based on religion. All of these different aspects contribute to the economy in both Saudi Arabia and America.
The economy always impacts education. If the country has a strong economy, it presumably has a strong education because economic countries can easily earn money, hence, they can build an appropriate education for their countries. That is, we will not find a country that has education without economy or economy without education. Ramady illustrated why the economy is related to education when he said that, "Saudi Arabia needs to be aware of current international educational developments to cope with the demand of the labor market place" (430). Education relates to the international job market because Saudi Arabian education needs to prepare its citizens for a career path that can keep up with the changing job market. A good education is needed to compete with other countries. Education prepares an individual for a job. This means that the economy is playing a significant role in improving education in Saudi Arabia, but compared to other countries like America and United Kingdom is slow. Therefore, Saudi Arabia should take care of its economy in order to develop quickly. Ramady mentioned that, "Saudi education expenditure must be allocated in an efficient manner in order to produce an output compatible with the economy's future needs" (Ramady 432). This is important because if Saudi Arabia does that, it might help to concentrate on a better economy and therefore allowing the government to spend more money on a better education for its people.
Some people think that Saudi Arabia has a good educational field. They say that the opportunity to study in Saudi Arabia is better than America's because, in Saudi Arabia there are no fees for higher education except private schools. So, poor people in Saudi Arabia can be taught. In contrast, the majority of American poor people cannot go to universities. According to AI-Shammary E, "The growing economic interdependence of many countries and the huge development in the means of communication and transportation compel almost all countries to teach at least one foreign language" (194). Ramady and Lacy shared that in Saudi Arabia some important steps have been occupied that built a co-educational [men and women] university which is King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) for graduate-level (Ramady 439 and Lacy). One viewpoint believed that Saudis have to be patient, so in five years and after the people who obtained scholarships return to Saudi Arabia, we will see new developments in Saudi Arabia--more than any generation before.
Even though money is important when developing an educational program, it is also important to put the money in the right programs and sections of education. For example, more money must be placed in teaching English in secondary education. According to Krieger, "King Abdullah has provided $10-billion of his own money to establish a graduate-level science-and-technology university instantly making it the sixth wealthiest university in the world"(Krieger). Despite the fact that Saudi Arabia has been paying a lot of money to build a strong graduate-level education, it needs to focus on what leads to the graduate level which is secondary education. A potential solution proposed is to bring in more foreign teachers where the government gives these teachers some features that are enticing, such as a house with TV and Internet, and a "computer provided for use upon arrival" (Teaching English in Saudi Arabia). Even though this is a great idea, according to Eid Al-Shammary Assistant Professor from the Center of European Languages and Translation College of Arts at King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia said, "Pushing English instruction into the elementary stage will not improve English learning. This solution has been tried in many countries and failed" (194). However, it works in Europe, so that shows the defect is not with the instructors. The number of universities and students in Saudi Arabia has increased over long periods of time and it keeps rising (Al-Shammari.S). If the trend of the number of students increasing leads to a stronger education, then one might agree that education is improving but until proven otherwise, the education system requires reforms and needs to be improved.
In conclusion, King Abdullah is trying to do everything he can to have Saudi Arabia become a more internationally educated country, despite the lack of agreement on the issue that exists in the country (Lacy). Nowadays, in Saudi Arabia, a high school degree is neither strong enough to be hired at companies nor to live a nice life. Therefore, most people are looking for bachelor's or higher degrees to get a job. And some people have started to study outside of Saudi Arabia because they think that they will have a good opportunity get married and get a great job. Saudi Arabia needs to focus more on subjects that relate to the job market, introducing English in secondary education, preparing students to study abroad, putting money towards programs that prepare people for a career, and following the American educational model in practice, not just on paper. Also, Saudi Arabia should connect more with other countries throughout the world to create a credible educational system. The Saudi Arabian educational system needs to catch up with the world. Saudi Arabia must keep improving its education because education is the most important aspect of daily life.
