How many people understand what the death penalty is? When I first time saw this word I just known these words related the death, but I cannot understand those words meaning. The death penalty is a law to limit the criminal in my country, also this law putting a condemned person to death, so this law is a big issue in our life. Death penalty have two side was argued, on group people think the death penalty should be allow, because they believe the death penalty can control the crime and protect the society; another group people think the death penalty should be oppose, caused by inhuman and cruel.
Death penalty is begun to Slavery Era, in those years the death penalty just for the god to worship. In the Roman the king just kill people to fun, therefore the Phoenicians invented the sentence cross and all kinds of thing to kill the people. In the European middle ages, the British have the legislation for the death penalty, and creative the guillotine and have a specially place to kill the people. From the 1950s began the Western European and Nordic countries one by one to abolish the death penalty.
Nowadays, the death penalty is not a fun to kill the people, the death penalty have the very basic force of constraint. And the death penalty can help our life to safe. In my opinion I agree with the death penalty should be allowed. In my view, I think the death penalty is not just a cruel law, because this law has very basic meaning, such as kill people, betray a secrete of home country or the embezzle money and engage in corrupt practices. So this law just protect us, is not endanger our life.
Death penalty should be allow
One argument for the death penalty is should be allow because of the death penalty can control the crime rate in the society. According to the source "On the Road to the Rule of Law: Crime, Crime Control, and Public Opinion in China". Since 1978, the Chinese reform policy has brought fast economic developments and social change but also considerably higher crime levels (Shenghui page #138). Chinese reform policy means give more chance to business such as export trade or the WTO. So in China have so many people began to crime just want earn money. China government make different law and policy to control the crime rate, they use in the different law to solution different criminal, include the death penalty. However the death penalty is can effective the crime rate. This article talk about the when the economic developments so many people began to crime, the China government use the law to control the crime include the death penalty. This faction gives the China very good effective, that is control the people to crime.
Another reason we should have the death penalty is death penalty can help the government and country to control. According to the journal "on the reform of imprisonment under the background of death penalty control." In comparison with the imprisonment system of foreign countries..the term of implementation is too short, and the scope of penalty reduction is too large.(GUO JING-WEI Pg #32) China government have different law and policy to control the crime, but it is not good, because the different law have too many afoul point, so the government make the death penalty to limited someone who have the big felon, because the afoul point will protect the felon. In this journal, we can know sometimes the government needs a very basic law to require every law. So I believe the death penalty is very necessary in China.
Another reason we should have the death penalty is effective people mind, because of when a people long time to receive the death penalty, this information will effective people. According to the article "The effect of biased information on the malleability of death penalty opinion" they talk about a in Furman v. Georgia (1972), Justice Thurgood Marshall hypothesized that people who support the death penalty would change their minds if they had more information about capital punishment. In past time the research always talk about the death penalty is allow of not allow. But in this time the Thurgood Marshall began to research the death penalty can or cannot effected people. So for this time Thurgood use two group to research, one group people always read who dead cause for the death penalty and read the case for them. Another group people cannot hear any about the death penalty information. Then the answer same survey for the death penalty. In this research time the people always head the death penalty have most conscious of law. In this article, the research can prove the death penalty effect people mind to crime.
Another reason we should have the death penalty is can help to development economy, because the government should cost more money in who being living. According to the source "when the California's Commission on the fair administration of Justice, for example, has estimated that the state is spending $138 million a year on the crime people."(The price of death pg# 7) For this case they talk about the crime cost. The article talk about the California's commission case, they every year, uses $138 million to the crime and the article write information about the death penalty how to affect economy. The author talks about if use that money to building jail and give the best equipment to control the people who have the criminal. Also use money to development economy in society.
Death penalty should be oppose
On another hand, the some people think the death penalty should be cancel because the human rights. According to the "The death penalty and human rights. Social Sciences in China" it is talk about the in china have a group of people think the death penalty should be oppose, because they think the death penalty is inhuman and cruel, they believe if the government kill the felon, the government will be same the felon, because they also can killed the people. So they believes everyone should be afire no matter who you are, who is felon. Also have the human rights to live in the world.
The last reason for the death penalty should not be allow, which is the "Science and the Death Penalty: DNA, Innocence, and the Debate over Capital Punishment in the United States" this article talks the death penalty will take so many effects for society. So the death penalty should not be allowed. Because of the death penalty will destroy the people and the society relation. In this article the author proves the author opinion who believes the people have the rights in society. In 1992 the author have the saver for 100 people those people want the government give the law for any people and promise the death penalty does not being the united States.
Another reason for the death penalty should be oppose, because of the death penalty will affect between the person and the country relationship. According to source "Persuasion and Resistance: Race and the Death Penalty in America." we know the this article talks the death penalty in American, the authors opinion is death penalty should not be allowed, because of in American the race gap" between whites and blacks in their support for the death penalty, we know relatively little about the nature of these differences and how the races respond to various arguments against the penalty. So the death penalty was be opposed in American.
Another reason for the oppose the death penalty also is the human rights, so we can know the human rights is very important for the people according to the "The Global Debate on the Death Penalty. Human Rights" his article the author talk about the globe issue death penalty also the author talk about the in the world the so many people want cancel the death penalty. The author according to different people, major and the publish answer known the people want the government to cancel the death penalty. Because they believe the government does not have the power to kill any people also the author thinks the death penalty is a cruel and inhuman law and should be abolish.
All in all, I agree with make law for the death penalty, because the death penalty can protect the society safe and give us very safe life in public area. Also can help the government economy can save money, I agree with the human rights is very important for any people, but the death penalty also can protect our life. I believe the death penalty is a very useful and correct law to use in control crime.
Reference page:
Reference
1. Shenghui, Q., & Oberwittler, D. (2009). On the Road to the Rule of Law: Crime, Crime Control, and Public Opinion in China. European Journal on Criminal Policy & Research, 15(1/2), 137-157. Doi:10.1007/s10610-008-9094-3
2. Guo, J., & Liang, Y. (2008). On the reform of imprisonment under the background of death penalty control. (English). Journal of China Lawyer & Jurist, 4(1), 31-33.
3. Kennedy-Kollar, D. (2009). The effect of biased information on the malleability of death penalty opinion. Dissertation Abstracts International Section A, 69, Retrieved from EBSCOhost..
4. Gershowitz, A. M. (2010). Statewide Capital Punishment: The Case for Eliminating Counties' Role in the Death Penalty. Vanderbilt Law Review, 63(2), 305-359. Retrieved from EBSCOhost.
5. Chen, Z. (2009). The death penalty and human rights. Social Sciences in China, 30(2), 152-165. doi: 10.1080/02529200902903909
6. Aronson, J. D., & Cole, S. A. (2009). Science and the Death Penalty: DNA, Innocence, and the Debate over Capital Punishment in the United States. Law & Social Inquiry, 34(3), 603-633. doi:10.1111/j.1747-4469.2009.01159.x
7. Peffley, M., & Hurwitz, J. (2007). Persuasion and Resistance: Race and the Death Penalty in America. American Journal Of Political Science, 51(4), 996-1012. doi:10.1111/j.1540-5907.2007.00293.x
8. Babcock, S. (2007). The Global Debate on the Death Penalty. Human Rights, 34(2), 1.
