Since 2010, the number of cell phone user is 5 billion worldwide (Online). The ITU, International Telecommunication Union, predicts that within the next five years, more people will hop onto the Web from laptops and mobile gadgets than from desktop computers (Online). Nowadays, a cell phone is an essential staple of modern life. People are very accustomed to cell phones and it even seems that they unable to get rid of cell phones. As cell phones are commonly being used more and user number is increasing, the problems are growing and also need more attention. Cell phone use brings psychological problems to early adolescents. In addition, cell phone use in class brings trouble to education management. Cell phone radiation also effects the human brain and increases cancer risks. Thus, negative affects that cell phones bring are more serious than cell phones positive affects, so people should pay more attention to cell phone risk before cell phone use causes more problems.
The opposinon's point of view of cell phone use is that mobile technology innovation brings many new experiences and is update very fast. For example, "Two years from now the world's smallest optical disc will let your cell phone store five two-hour movies, squirrel away 25,000 digital photos or hoard 48 hours of MP3 music."(Fox) Furthermore, mobile creative technology brings many special experiences, like mobile shopping and mobile stocks. This kind of convenience and special experience lets people get accustomed to them so it is harder to get rid of them. In modern life, cell phones seem to have been a part of people's lives. For this reason why people increasingly rely on mobile phones can be understood. As myself, I also enjoy the special Iphone applications. I updated and downloaded the new applications for the new music, novel games and the other new fashions. However, there are many negative effects of cell phones, including psychological effects, health affects and behavioral effects. Even though cell phone use can bring people the convenience and an experience of special technology, the disadvantages should not be ignored.
First of all, cell phone use brings serious influences to early adolescents. For example, recent surveys show that 75% of all Americans own cell phones(Hprrigan,2008), and 52% of American early adolescents own
cell phones(Lenhart,2009). According
to research, 41.7% of the
adolescents were intensive cell phone
users. As Table 2 shows there are many various associates with cell phone use. The analysis showed a statistically significant association with age, sex, cell phone dependence, socioeconomic level, type of school, location (urban/rural), parents' educational level, relationship
between parents, relationship with families, depression, use of alcohol/tobacco/drugs, school failure, and keeping the phone on during class (Table 2). (Sanchez-Mart"nez) This phenomenon of early adolescents' intensive cell phone users could serve to expedite two important psychosocial factors: social connection and autonomy. Possessions frequently take on psychological meaning as objects of self-expression and individuality, and the potential for this phenomenon is increased when individuals feel that others are observing them-a state that is highly prevalent in adolescence.(Blair) Thus, it is not surprising that the social status associated with cell phones remains a driving force behind adolescents' desire to obtain a cell phone with status calculated by the type of cell phone owned, the size of an individuals' address book, or the number of calls received. The competitiveness among early adolescents would lead them to develop the bad habbits and personality traits and it causes the financial burden of parents who actually pay for the cell phones. The reason why parents buy cell phones to their children is that they can keep in touch with them. But, in fact, competitiveness causes financial problems to parents.
Cell phones not only cause psychological problems, but also effect students behavioral problems. Nowadays, cell phones are everywhere, and everyone seems to have one. Cell phone users already include middle school students and even some students who are in elementary school. Both parents and students feel these phones are essential in order to keep tabs on the day's activities. This does not change the fact, however, that disruptions which take place during class, along with the potential not only for cheating but for the taking of inappropriate pictures and videos, both enabled by cell phones, are forcing schools to revise or create cell phone policies to avoid these issues. "Kids are now taking pictures of their math test for later classes and taking very inappropriate photos of other students and posting these pictures on the Internet before school is even dismissed," Root said of his sixth- to eighth-grade students, half of which, he estimates, have cell phones. He says this poses "a big issue" in his school(St. Gerard). It seems can be understood that students need to communicate to their parents for some emergencies. However, cell phones are not designed for simply making and receiving phone calls anymore. Advanced technology now developed for cell phones allows them to play music, take pictures, record video, provide Internet access, and send and receive text messages. Although a ringing cell phone going off in the middle of a class may still constitute a distraction, principals and teachers must now also arm themselves to tackle the more complex problems of preventing students from cheating on their examinations and from secretly taking pictures or videos of other students (or staff) (St. Gerard). It is a big issue in schools and more policies need to be made for using cell phones in class to control this kind of issue. Furthermore, as technology continues to advance, more issues with cell phones in schools will surely arise.
Besides the physiological problems and students behavioral problems, cell phone use also effects human health. Many cell phone users want to know: Can using a cell phone cause brain tumors? It is one of the most controversial questions about cell phone use because there is no conclusive data to support a link between cell phone radiation and cancer. Because of no conclusive data, the federal government and the mobile-phone industry disagree on whether cell phone radiation is related to tumor or cancer. As cell phones are so popular in the modern century and it seems almost everyone owns a cell phone, the cell phone industry can get a lot of benefits from selling cell phone. At the same time, the government can levy more tax from these cell phone industries. So it is the reason why the government supports the no conclusive data argument(Wash). However, from many scientists' suggestions, the evidence that does exist is enough to raise a warning for consumers before mass harm is done. (Walsh) For example, Enter Interphone, a $24 million long-term study that matched rates of brain cancer with cell-phone use among more than 12,000 participants in 13 countries. Upon closer inspection, the results were checkered: the 10% of people who used their phones most often and for the longest period of time - 30 minutes a day or more on average for at least 10 years - had a substantially higher risk of developing some form of brain cancer than those who did not use a mobile phone at all. (Walsh) This result means that people who did not use a cell phone at all infrequently had a lower risk of developing some brain tumors than those who exclusively used cell phones.
A study shows that cell phones can changes brain activity, and it reveals a whole new avenue for scientists to study more to find out whether cell phone radiation can cause cancer. In this study, Dr. Nora Volkow, director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, asked 47 volunteers to undergo two positron-emission tomography scans, which measure glucose consumption in the brain, an indication of how cells use energy. For both 50 minutes scans, the volunteers had a cell phone fixed to each ear. The result of the second scan showed that the regions of the brain nearest to the device's antenna had higher rates of glucose consumption than the rest of the brain. (Park) Results show that cell phones can cause brain activity change which maybe caused by cell phone radiation. Scientists need to do more in-depth studies, and people ought to pay more attention.
While some doctors use cell phones in hospital because they provide advantages and conveniences, there are still bad affects. On the opposite of the argument, the opponents believe cell phones can bring positive influences. For example, Dan Diamond, who works at the Doctors Clinic in Silverdale, Wash, use Epocrates Essentials, one of Apple's i Tunes Applications, to quickly check for drug interactions, look up disease symptoms, and find out what lab tests he might need to order. He is one of the opponents against the argument of cell phones' negative affects.(Hesseldahl)Even though cell phones are helpful to doctors, we should realize that cell phone radiation interferes with hospital equipments, which indirectly harms patients. For example, in the study published Wednesday, in the online journal Critical Care, researchers measured the impact of electromagnetic interference (EMI) from cell phone use on hospital equipment such as ventilators and pacemakers. Signals that were equal in strength to those given off by second- and third-generation mobile phones significantly interfered with medical devices. 75% of those incidents were categorized as "hazardous," meaning that the interference had a direct impact on patient health, or "significant," indicating that it distracted health care providers. Hazardous incidents included the sudden switching off or restarting of machines - which could mean disruption of a patient's feeding tube, ventilator, pacemaker or dialysis machine - and most events occurred when mobile phones were within 3 cm of critical-care equipment.(Masters) The impact of mobile phones in hospital settings need to attract people's attention because this is related to patients' heath and safety. Most people do not realize cell phone radiations impacts on hospital equipment. Even if hospitals make some rules to set cell phones use in hospitals, the patient's family, even the doctors want to avoid these rules. For both patients and doctors, cell phone use is a big issue in hospitals.
As the cell phone problems becoming more and more serious, we need to pay more attention and find ways to solve these problems or control them. The following ways are what I offer to prevent further serious harm from cell phone use. First of all, as considering the cell phone radiation risk for human heath, every now and then a product is sold with a warning that should command attention. For example, consider the little-noticed bit of legalese that comes in the safety manual for Apple's i Phone 4: "When using i Phone near your body for voice calls or for wireless data transmission over a cellular network, keep i Phone at least 15 mm (5/8 inch) away from the body, and only use carrying cases, belt clips, or holders that do not have metal parts and that maintain at least 15 mm (5/8 inch) separation between i Phone and the body."(Scherer) Clearly, a lot of people aren't aware of this information about the safety manual, but it is necessary to address it. Scientists continue to keep studying how to reduce the cell phone radiation, by assuming a safe separation distance which the Iphone safety manual inches from the body during a test is the best way (Scherer). Another suggestion of reducing cell phones bad health affect is turning off the cell phones while sleeping. A study in the journal Sleep reveals that almost 60% of students used their cell phones either to talk or text message after turning their lights out at bedtime.(Park) Turning off cell phones can help to prevent cell phone radiation risk to brain while sleeping and decrease the problem of sleeplessness.
In addition, another solution includes resolving the issues of using cell phones in class. Schools can revise or create cell phone policies to avoid these issues. For example, Jerri Moore, who serves in the capacity of principal of Copan Elementary School, a Pre-K-8 school in the state of Oklahoma, says that cell phones are not allowed at her school during school hours. "If a student is seen with a cell phone out, it is taken away and kept in the principal's office," she said, adding, "The parent/guardian of the child will have to come to the office to pick up the phone." In addition, the Lewistown School District's policy is quite specific, stating that at no time will any student operate a cellular phone or other electronic device with video capabilities in a locker room, bathroom, or other location where such operation may violate the privacy right of another person(St. Gerard). For now, similar to the policy which exists at Moore's school, Mould says that, if a student is caught using his or her phone during regular school hours or in class, the phone is confiscated until a parent or guardian reclaims it.(St. Gerard) More cell phone use issues are happening in schools. Yesterday, it was simply teachers dealing with irritating ring tones in class. Today, it's a matter of keeping students from taking pictures. And who knows what tomorrow will bring? For this reason, it's important to remain aware of the potential risks and to keep policies updated to address them.
In conclusion, even though cell phone use brings convenience and special technology experiences, the a lot amount of research suggests that the negative effects of cell phone use outweigh the positive ones. It is important to be aware of the negative affects it causes, like psychological problems of early adolescents, students behavioral problems in schools, and human health affects. Clearly, people should pay more attention to these problems before cell phone use causes more serious issues. In order to avoid the negative effects of cell phone use, people should do something to protect themselves, such as buying cell phones with a warning to help remind users keep the cell phones a safe distance away from their bodies and also turn off cell phones while sleeping in order to prevent cell phone radiation to the brain and reduce the risk of cancer. And in order to address the issue of cell phone use in school, educators need to revise and create better more effective cell phone policies to avoid school management issues. By following these solutions, it should be easier to avoid the negative effects of cell phone use.
