Have you ever noticed in the restaurant people eating a little because they are trying to lose weight? Or have you or your friends ever lost weight before? In today's day and age, losing weight becomes a crucial issue for many people. According to a Gallup Poll from David, nearly 59% of Americans say they want to lose weight and the number is tending to increase recently. As a raised question, what is the best way to lose weight? As stated by the same survey, nearly 25% of people want to lose weight by dieting, which nearly equals that there are 36.4% of the people who have methods for losing weight (Moore). As dieting, that is, eating less becomes more and more popular, the ways of dieting are getting even more complex. There are many proponents who believe dieting is really helpful for weight lose because of its feasibility, and others are opponents of that statement with a view to its negative effects. This paper will present the argument of both side accounts for the models, the process, and the impact of dieting, and emphasize three new methods for weight losing based on traditional dieting..
There is always a lot of evidence for the proponents to make an argument that dieting is very helpful. The most popular one is the models. There are many well known stars that always declare their ways of losing weight, and most of them are dieting, or the new way to diet. For example, Angelina Jolie had spent a few months on a special diet to get ready for her new movie. And the method to diet forced to change her meals to cigarettes and a non-fat coffee, and this successfully helped her lost a few pounds and more curvaceous. Just like Jolie, Kim Cattrall cut out all the breads, dairy, sweets and most meats of her diet in order to get the part in "Sex and City" (Evatt). There are a lot of examples like this to show that dieting is helpful. For the proponents, these examples are just like the recognization for their view of dieting is helpful.
Nevertheless, many opponents argue that dieting is not always successful. As a strict vegetarian since her early teens, which is just like the vegetable dieting do exactly, Pamela Anderson did not lose weight from that. Instead, she lost weight by doing exercises (Shape Fit). For another reason, they claim that if someone wants to diet, he must find some other things to rely on (Bullock). But dieting in the wrong way is harmful to a person's health. For example, as to the way of dieting used by Angelina Jolie, using cigarettes instead of meals might be helpful but the person will have more and more wrinkles on her skin and that is bad for her health (Loeb). And it is really unworthy that changes health with weight. After all, health is the foundation of everything. Therefore, the opponents insist on their opinion for dieting's unhelpful.
Many people choose dieting to lose weight because it's the fastest way to be slim. Proponents contend that it's not bad for health and really faster in weight-losing field. According to a research from Penn State, dieting sometimes is good for health because many times dieting will increase water-rich foods you take due to their low calories. "increasing the consumption of water-rich foods such as fruits and vegetables is not only a way to lose weight, but may also help reduce the risk of chronic illnesses." (Penn State). In other words, dieting is not that harmful and it's doable when losing weight. Moreover, In Dara's research, the patient who is called Stacey just got little diseases such as blood pressure problems during the dieting process but lost 30% of her weight after that. There is another successfully story about a man who lost 30 pounds by different types of dieting, not only including the super-low-fat dieting, which means count calories and fats every meal, but also the fruit dieting and salad dieting (Yeager). It's really easy to put into practice. As a result, proponents believe that dieting is the faster and effective way of losing weight.
As for the other side, the opponents argue that even though dieting is really faster, it is extremely easy to rebound. In their view, if someone eats less to lose weight and the diet is extraordinarily successful, then the person will eventually go back to eating as he normally did and then regain the weight he lost. And it's common to gain more than your previous weight. For instance, as for the famous research of the chemical effect of people's body when they were dieting, indicates, it will be easy to rebound weight gain reaching previous levels by the end of the experiment because of the body mass disorders (Diane). "the reduce of antiobesity compound after dieting," the researchers states, "induced weight loss initially followed by rebound weight gain reaching vehicle control levels by the end of the experiment." According to this statement, we can know that the compound which made people lost weight by dieting will suddenly decrease when people finished diet, which cause people regain the weight. In the experiment, many scientists took part in and worked out the conclusion. The opponents are enthusiastically endorsing it, and often use it to argue with the proponents.
After that experiment, the proponent developed a new and interesting theory of dieting, that is, if a person eats less for a long time, her stomach will be smaller and smaller, and the person will not have the ability to eat as much food as before, and she will never regain the weight that she lost. The principle of this theory is just like the new type of obesity surgery from NPR news, that is, to restrict the amount of food that you can eat, not just you want to eat (Aubrey). In a journal from USA today, the author Nanci point out his experience of losing 450 pounds by low- calories dieting, and he agree that his stomach has been smaller than before because he could never eat that much as before (Nanci). In his narration, this theory of dieting seems reasonable and supported by the proponents far and wide.
For the opponents, they rebut that statement in a mental way. They indicates that if people just eat a little bit for a long time, they could be tempted by any kind of food. And then, if they eat, they will rebound, and if they do not, for many times, maybe they possibly will have mental problems. The picture 1 below is from a online article which is intend to resist dieting and choose other healthy methods to lose weight such as yoga.
Picture 1: "I need to lose weight":
In the picture, the girl's mouth is covered, which means how strict the diet is; The girl's plate just has a tape measure, which means that she could not eating nothing because she is losing weight; the girl's eyes are full of depression just like a patient, which shows how hard the diet is. After looking at the picture, audience will feel totally uncomfortable about dieting. Moreover, There is a research about women, especially teenager girls get mental problems with interpersonal relationships just from dieting, and some of them got specific mental problems such as tristimania (Schutz). Consequently, the opponents still assert dieting is not good.
The issue of dieting is controversial everywhere in the world. Methods for losing weight are still a question. As a result, many people are arguing wether using dieting to lose weight can be effective. As the foregoing paragraphs states, both the opponents and proponents have their own opinion on effective weight losing and their own evidences to support it. Both of these evidences are strongly enough, and we do not have the ability to overturn either of them. But we still need to consider what the better choice of this issue is because there are still some arguments about it. Actually, it's really a loaded question.
Luckily, in the book "Good calories, Bad calories", we know something about this issue. In this book, the author Nancy, who is a co-write of many famous and academic journals, such as The Parent's Guide to Eating disorders, did some researches about weight -losing based on a homonymic book written about four years by another famous journalist, Gray Taubes, and neutrally reveals many facts about dieting and weight-losing.
In Nancy's book, she addresses some ideas depends on the reliable research, and many idea are contraindicated to the traditional weight-losing methods. On the online dictionary, "such a selection or a limitation on the amount a person eats for reducing weight" or "the act of restricting your food in take (or your intake of particular food)" is the definition of diet (dictionary.com). According to this definition, people can easily refer that the principle of the dieting is cutting calories in the user's diet. For the people who support the statement that dieting is a good choice to lose weight, what they believe is really reasonable in physical ways. Basically, if the calories' intake is less than the user's output, his/her body will need to resolve the other fat or protein to get enough calories for his/her daily routine. However, in Nancy's research, it's not true. Nancy found some evidence to show that protein and fat are the best calories for people and people could not live without them. But in original dieting, most are used to calculate and cut the calories and the strict-cut calorie is fat. "You can gain weight and become obese without a positive energy balance" Nancy states. In other words, cutting all calories of one aspect or cut more calories of what you need are not helpful to weight-losing. Nevertheless, people who state that dieting is not helpful are also not proved in her research. For the opponents, who think eating sparingly is not good and do bad things on people, the research does prove that people still lose weight through this "bad way". Both Nancy and Taubes explain this phenomenon in their book, and claim that because the carbohydrate and sugars have "their effect on insulin secretion" (Matsumoto). If we are dieting, we will cut the sugar and carbohydrate we intake because they are regarded as calories. On the other hand, the opponents consider exercise as the solution, but Nancy draws the conclusion that it's not helpful and sometimes weight-gaining instead. It's a kind of mental problems because people who just exercise will be hungrier, and most of them think they deserve to eat better and more (Matsumoto). Eventually, they gain weight because of the superfluous calories.
Actually, if we look at the two sides' opinion in another way, both of their opinions have disadvantages which we can observe them easily in the previous debate paragraphs. The proponents and opponents' points of view have their own limits because they just looked at a part of this issue. For example, the proponents look at the results of the weight-losing and feel dieting is really faster, but the opponents focus on the long-time effect and emphasize it's bad for the health and easy to rebound. We can say this in another way, that is, neither of them is a better choice of this loaded issue. So, What is the best way to lose weight? In fact, many methods are effective. If both sides are combined, people will find this issue have many better solutions, and depending on our own solution, individuals will find the best one to fit themselves.
The first is the most common one for all the people, that is, combine the original dieting and the exercises. In the Journal of General Internal Medicine, the authors take notes of people who take part in their research of a weight-losing program, and give people the conclusion "improving diet and exercise" is helpful in weight-losing (Wee). "We conducted multivariable analyses to examine factors associated with being at these advanced stages of readiness to concurrently lose weight, improve diet and increase exercise," the researcher states, "and the participators already lose weight after 1 month" (Wee). This result is a proof of the way that combining dieting and exercises is really useful, and gives people another effective way of losing weight.
On the other hand, it is possible for people to choose their own ways to lose weight. As in Jaret's article, he explains to us how to choose the best and compatible way to lose weight depending on our own situation. He studied this issue from many aspects, and came up with a list of different usage of various categories of foods such as meat, fruit, vegetable and so on. After the experiment, the results in Jeret's book tell us we do not need to cut the meal and having sparingly diet. We just need to choose the meal carefully (Jaret). For example, the Atkins-style high-protein, low-carbohydrate is one of the book's recommendations for the people who eat many in one meal. "There's no real secret to losing weight", said University of Pennsylvania researcher Gary Foster, Ph.D., who is one of the leading experts on the subject, "but we must know exactly what our body takes" (Jaret). This research is successful after the experiments, and people can distinguish the real corporeity themselves, and know what their bodies exactly need to achieve their own goal of weight-losing.
Except losing weight by realize the corporeity of people and the function of food, we can also lose weight by divide people to two basic groups, that is, male and female. Because of the different eating habit and physiology of male and female, they deserve different ways of dieting. For example, in a research about eating habits and healthy attitudes, "Dietary practices of fast food consumption (more frequent for males) and regular consumption of fruits and vegetables (more frequent for females)." (Dimitrios). By the way, the purpose of weight-losing between man and women is not the same at most times. Women want the curve and men want the muscles. There are also many other differences between male and female, as a result, this kind of dieting is popular these days. For male, normally, the doctor or the fitness instructor will give you recommendation about eating red meat, quit liquid calories, and do some kind of strong exercises (Hitti). And for female, there are more stretching exercises the dietitian will give you because it will made you more beautiful. And you will know what the nutrients you will need than man and then choose the diet. (women Hub). This method of losing weight is pretty new and it's not a well know way for the issue of weight-losing. But it's popular because the classify of gender is easier than the second method and you will not know much more knowledge than the second method.
Dieting is a really controversial issue that has been argued for a long time. Nowadays, people have many new methods for dieting and weight-losing, for instance, combine dieting and exercises, find out what is your body's really need, and lose weight depend on different gender's own features. Overall, these methods have the unitarity in this issue. They are all in the middle of the traditional dieting, and they provide some options for people to lose weight based on their own situation thus come up with some better solutions. For the people who do not know much about themselves, they need to make an effort to find which one is fit for them or go to get a fitness coach. Anyway, no matter which new method you choose whereby their own situation, it will be better than both follow the traditional dieting strictly or do not use the traditional dieting at all because it suits the user more.
Work citd
Aubery, Allison. "FDA Weighs Broader Use Of Weight-Loss Surgery". NPR news. 3 Dec. 2010. 6 Apr. 2011.
Bullock, Maggie. "Out of Body." Elle. 07 Jan. 2009. Web. 4 April. 2011
Bray, G. A. "Good Calories, Bad Calories by Gary Taubes; New York: AA Knopf." Obesity Reviews 9. 3 (2008): 251-263. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 24 Apr. 2011.
Moore, David W. "Close to 6 in 10 Americans Want to Lose weight." Gallup News. 16 Nov. 2008. Web. 28 Mar. 2011.
Diane M. Ignar, et al. "The Effect of PPAR?, PPAR?, PPAR?, and PPARpan Agonists on Body Weight, Body Mass, and Serum Lipid Profiles in Diet-Induced Obese AKR/J Mice." PPAR Research (2007): 1-13. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 28 Mar. 2011.
Dictionary.com. Home Page. Dictionary.com LLC. 2011. Web. 22 Apr. 2011
Dimitrios Kouvelas, et al. "Eating habits, health attitudes and obesity indices among medical students in northern Greece." Appetite 55. 3 (2010): 722-725. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 24 Apr. 2011.
Evatt, Nicole. "Kim Cattrall glams down for gritty indie role." Associated Press. 29 Mar.2011. 04 Apr. 2011.
Hitti, Miranda., Jaret, Peter. "Diet Plan For Man." Web MD. 16 Dec.2009. Web. 25 Apr. 2011.
Jaret, Peter. "THE CHOOSE THE BEST, LOSE THE REST DIET." Health (Time Inc. Health) 18. 1 (2004): 134. Master FILE Premier. EBSCO. Web. 13 Apr. 2011.
Loeb, Heather. "Break Your Bad Habits." Men's Health (10544836) 24. 8 (2009): 82. Master FILE Premier. EBSCO. Web. 4 Apr. 2011.
Matsumoto, Nancy. "BUZZ BOOK: GOOD CALORIES, BAD CALORIES." People 68. 17 (2007): 53. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 13 Apr. 201
Mayers, Dara. "Is Dieting Bad for You". Diabetes Health. 1 May. 2005. Web. 5 Apr. 2011.
Nanci, Hellmich. "After losing 450 pounds, journey is not over yet." USA Today (n.d.): Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 28 Mar. 2011.
Schutz, Helen K., and Susan J. Paxton. "Friendship quality, body dissatisfaction, dieting and disordered eating in adolescent girls." British Journal of Clinical Psychology 46. 1 (2007): 67-83. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 6 Apr. 2011.
Shape Fit. Home page. LLA. 2011. Web. 28 Mar. 2011.
Tyson, Michael. "Using Mental Discipline to Lose Weight." Mind Cafe. 25 Mar. 2010. 04 Apr. 2011.
Wee, Christina C., Roger B. Davis, and Russell S. Phillips. "Stage of Readiness to Control Weight and Adopt Weight Control Behaviors in Primary Care." JGIM: Journal of General Internal Medicine 20. 5 (2005): 410-415. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 18 Apr. 2011.
Women Hub. "Tips to What are Perfect Diet for Women." RPTECH-WORLD Team. 15 Apr. 2011. Web. 25 Apr. 2011.
Yeager, Selene. "I Got Results Fast by Taking It Slow." Prevention 56. 11 (2004): 119. Master FILE Premier. EBSCO. Web. 28 Mar. 2011
