Today, as the economic and social life develops, our new technology is becoming more advanced than before. These advanced technologies also make our life convenient and comfortable, especially our education. About 20 years ago, there was no any online-education during the world. With the advent of the Internet, educators discovered a new medium for communicating with students. Throughout the 1990s, online education evolved from basic corporate computer-based training programs to be embraced by colleges and universities across the country. As technology continues to advance, so does the nature of online education.
I still remembered that when I was a child, about 7or8 years, we went to school and take the class, there is no internet, no keyboard, no computer. We just listen the teacher's class and took notes. It is difficult time but I enjoyed it. But now, as you see, almost all school have their own online-education during our world. Including almost project, Language, Math, Physics, Chemical and some specialized courses. In my home country China, I know about 70 percent primary school had already built their own internet education for our students. It is very excited that our students can learn some interested knowledge online instead of go to the school. For example, my PIE teacher often give us the homework online or remind us what we will bring something tomorrow class. Like research, homework, worksheet or some reading logs. So now, I checked my E-mail every day and see some important E-mails. I think it is a better way to remind me what is the next step.
Although today it is trend that more and more school prefer to choose the internet education for our students, there are also many amid opposition. They believe that when these students have online-education, they will be not control themselves. And also it is said the internet is not safe enough. As we know, everyday there are lots of knowledge during our life, and when you read them, you also read some article maybe including violence, pornographic, crime and gangster dom. These themes bring our students many counteractive, because they were too young to understand what is good and what is bad. They will learn these from the internet when they take the internet education. But, the other people said even if there are so many disadvantage during the internet, but we can not ignore the internet bring us the benefits, especially the internet education for our students.
If we want to talk about the internet education, I think we should better to understand what internet education is. According to "Introduction of the Internet Education", it said online education is a form of distance learning that emphasizes the use of a personal computer. Students take courses via the Internet and utilize a variety of audio and video technologies to enhance their electronic communication with instructors. Of course, there are some hybrid educations courses that allow students to complete a portion of their work online, but also require in-class sessions. So from this website, we know about how to define the internet education.
As our invention develops, our internet education is growing quickly. According to a recent study by the Sloan Consortium, a nonprofit organization that analyzes online learning trends. The number of people taking advantage of online education is increasing by about 13 percent each year. In comparison, enrollments at traditional colleges and universities are growing by only 1. 2 percent a year. Additionally, more and more private and public colleges and universities are offering online courses. In the fall of 2007, more than 3. 9 million students were taking at least one course online. As for our students, it is a useful to improve our class. For example, my school, NAU has also the online courses. It is very important that we can keep our class online when we decided to go back our country in the summer holiday. Because when you live in Phoenix in the summer, it is too hot. And the NAU give us this chance that we can keep our class online when we live at home.
So I think it is a better way to keep our project. So, I think Internet has changed our lives and it is not different for students. The World Wide Web offers a wealth of information which can be useful for every kind of information. Many students don't need to visit the library for research because you can find plenty of encyclopedia's (for example, the Brit-anicca encyclical) and many education sites when you browse through different Internet sites. Today, you will find almost all our students use the online education for their homework or research and so on. Also our professor can assign the homework online, and we can do it online. It is also a example putting the right keywords in the search engines is already a good start to find the necessary information. It doesn't mean you don't need books anymore but Internet add a certain value to the information students get at school. It is even impossible to imagine any education today without Internet use. Almost every school has some computers which has access to Internet and students can use these computers for research which may help them to make their daily tasks.
Today, there are also problems during our internet education. But before we face these problems, we should better to understand the benefits of the internet education. According a article named "How the Internet is Revolutionizing Education". This article is talked about how the internet education development. It is also can take the benefits for our students' life. From this article, the main supporting points are some revolutionizing examples, the author talked about some vital resources, such as "Open Culture" "Khan Academy" "Academic Earth" "P2PU" 'Skill Share" and so on. For these parts, we know about how the internet is revolutionizing our education. In my opinion, in these ways, it can also useful for our students' life, especially their teachers'. Otherwise, according to a book that talked about the internet education. It is named "The Advantages of Internet in Education" The author is Sue Turner. The author believe that the internet education can make our students' life more convenience and comfortable than before. It also talked about Communication, School Projects and Homework, News, Students' Future, Benefits for Teachers.
Communication: The Internet helps students develop their computer skills. It can also help students with their writing skills. In some forms, the Internet can help students with critical thinking skills. For example, our students can use the internet in order to improve their computer skills. When they have in trouble with the computer, the teacher can teach them online.
School Projects and Homework: The Internet can be a huge source for children trying to look up information for a school project or do homework. It also eliminates barriers for handicapped students who may have trouble getting to a library. As for me, I am happy that the teacher assigns the homework online. I can do it online and give back them. It is can save much time.
News: The Internet allows students to read the latest news of a certain subject they are studying. If they are studying American politics they can do a news search and find out what is happening in the world of politics at that very moment. This can help them connect what they are learning to the real world. As we know, the news can spread faster and faster online. So maybe it helps our students keep interested in their class.
Student's Future: Students will have to use the computer for research in college, in their jobs and their everyday lives. The Internet is a way of life for almost everyone now. In my opinion, using it in a classroom is one of the best and safest ways to help them learn about this tool.
Benefits for Teachers: The Internet is an added bonus for teachers looking for more information on subjects. It allows them to efficiently communicate with parents and other teachers through email. For our teachers, they can have their own class pages that parents can check at their convenience to see what is going on in the classroom.
In this article, they are connected to a specific organization is the government agency in United States. The other side is that what about the teachers' work, is it easy or difficult when they use the internet education. We think about that it is very easy when these teachers use the internet education, because they can check the homework on line and give back the grade to the students. Popular Online Formats, it can explains why is the internet popular now. I think it and the following are the most common types of online education courses:
Adult Online Education: The U.S. Department of Education's Division of Adult Education and Literacy promotes education programs that " help American adults get the basic skills they need to be productive workers, family members, and citizens." It's easy to find such programs online. Adult online education is geared toward teaching basic math, science, reading, and problem solving skills. They often focus on fighting illiteracy and teaching language skills.
Hybrid Education:A hybrid education combines the use of online coursework and materials with traditional in-class education. In hybrid courses, students can learn from teachers in a face-to-face setting as well as via the Internet.
Online Continuing Education: This type of online education offers an array of different classes for students who already have a degree but need (or want) to take one or two specific classes in order to advance their skills in a certain area. Continuing education courses do not lead to a degree upon completion.
These are the main ideas about that articles, I think the Wide Web offers a wealth of information which can be useful for every kind of information. Almost all students can find their interested information online, they can do it online, or find interested information out the class. There is so much that students can do with the Internet. Not only can they communicate with international students, they can gain from others' knowledge and experiences, participate in chatrooms, share ideas and solutions and learn about the many diverse cultures out there.
While the Internet does a lot for students, there are also benefits for parents and teachers. The interactive learning that the Internet provides can help students and parents with little or no English skills to learn English. Parents can become more involved in their childrens' education by connecting the school with homes, libraries or other access ports.
It is also good for our teacher, according to a website named " Internet Has Many Benefits", Teachers have the chance to be able to teach at more than one place simultaneously. They may be in a small town but through the Internet, they can be linked to students in more populated areas. Also, the Internet enables administrators and teachers to spend less time on administration and record keeping. This would also give them more time to spend with their students.
On the other side, there are disadvantages about the internet education. So from some article and websites, it talked about some disadvantage for the internet education. In conclusion, there are three main basic disadvantages of online education.
One disadvantage would have to be that in the job market, it is highly likely that your online degree will not stand the real diplomas and degrees that you can get. With the best kind of options it tends to get a whole lot easier. You will be assured only the best kind of education online if you pick up the right courses. I think in this way, it is not clearly to remind you what you learned in the class, or the school. According to a newspaper "China Daily", it said many students want to learn their knowledge online but it might not get a complete exposure to the process of class room teaching.
Furthermore, the largest problem is that people face when the online education is the technical skills. As we might know, today our internet education is also in the initial stage, we can not understand how the internet education development now is. For certain subjects at least it becomes relevant to download the right kind of software. When this is well taken care of it gets easier to ensure that the relevant subjects are taught properly. Once you enroll for a course the process becomes a whole lot easier. You will be guaranteed the best kind of work opportunities.
Finally, the most problem is that when you are studying in an educational institution, there is fixed time table and scheduled classes which you are required to attend. This is exactly opposite of what happens when you are opting for an online course. You do not need to follow any restrictions. In many instances students do not feel motivated enough when it comes to online education. That tends to make it extremely difficult and as a result of this people opt out of their online courses.
So I think these are the most problem of the internet education. Even if there are also many disadvantage of it, but in my opinion, it is very useful for our students' and teachers' life in the future. With the increasing use of the Internet as a means of delivering education, the roles of teachers and students are being redefined in the online learning environment (Bates, 2000; Wade, 1994). In this setting, students play an active role in their learning process and assert their autonomy in self-directed learning activities. Concomitantly, teachers become facilitators whose primary role is to promote a positive environment for collaborative learning and provide necessary support (Wade; 1994; Harrington & Oliver, 2001). So, for my essay, I talked about the advantage and the disadvantage of the internet education, some people said it is very useful because it can change our students' life in the future and bring us the convent and comfort, but others believe that the internet education is harmful for our students life.
It is a better way to learn some knowledge that we had never seen or heard before, and we can met every kinds of people from all over the world. We can learn together and make good friends. Even if we have the different language and different culture, but we can learn from each other, you also find some interested information that you might never learned in the class. And how about the teacher, they can sign up the homework online and E-mail to the students. The students can do it and go back to the teacher online, I think in this way it can save much time. Also the teacher can use the internet education to show the advance the video that the students interested in. We can watch video online about this class, maybe the students can understand the class clearly. So, I think the internet education is very good for our life, especially for our students' and teachers' life in the future.
