Should People Travel For Work or Not?
In the last years the number of peoples how are travelling for work has been increasing. In 2011 the US do some studies to calculate the number of people who are travelling for work between 6 to 12 month and they return to their basic job. And they find that 26% of people travel for their work. If anyone looks to that number they will be surprised because they will think what are the reasons that make some company sent their workers to travel to other countries rather than do their work in their own countries. But if people think deeply they will ask them self-what's the benefit if people travel for work? Or what are the negative things that will happen if people travel for work? And how that will affect them. One of the good things about travelling for works it gives the worker opportunity to see new culture and see and new tradition. And that will help them to make their mind open to the world.
On the other hand one of the bad things that some people face if they travel for their work, it may be affects their family in bad way. For instance, if one member of family travels that will make the family dispersed and also makes the family feel something is messing because they used to he or she in the house.
One of the reasons that I think this is an important topic because many business men and woman will face the possibility of travelling for work. And if the business man or woman know the positive and the negative things of travelling for work. They will avoid the negative thinks of travelling for work and they enjoy the positive things. And i will argue that people should travel for work. And lam going to respond the people who think the opposite.
It has been arguing that when people travel to other countries for their work that will affect their working skills. But that is not completely true because there are some worker when they travel they learn wonderful way to improve their skill. And there are a lot of examples prove that. One of them when the worker works with other workers form different nationality that will help them to learn new ways of thinking or new perspective when they want to judge something's. And other reasons that prove when some people travel for work that will improve their skills is the feeling that the worker will feel when they work in countries isn't their own. And there is no one to depend on to help them to do their work. So they will work hard to do their job and to be the best way. And to do that they must learn new skills of working. And also the worker feels some of responsibility when they travel for work because they ask them self that their company believe on them and believe on their potential. So they will do their best to make their company proud and make their own countrise proud also. And to do all of that the employees will develop their skills to better. And that will create a good image for worker countries because when other worker see the hard work of that employer. They will say, worker from that countries do they best when they work and that will create a good image for worker countries. It's true that some people disagree with the idea that some people when they travel for work that will affect their skills. But there are a lot of examples prove that when people travel for work that will improve their skills in amazing ways.
Furthermore, There are some people argue that when people travel to other countries for work they didn't learn any think that will help them to improve their own countrise. And the reasons that some people say that is there are some worker feel distracted to the country facilities or it natural rather than doing their job. And that isn't completely true because there are some worker when they travel they bring wonderful information that will help their countrise to be improve. For examples, Kuwait in 1992 find a lot of oil underground the sea but the problems was they didn't know the way to extract it form the ground. "The coastal area of Kuwait is receiving oil and non-oil hydrocarbon" (Al-Ghadban, Al-Yamani, Al-Sammak, Al-Hassam, Behbehani, Al-Hassan, 2007, P.25). The costal in Kuwait have the two type of oil which is normal oil and non-oil hydrocarbon. But they didn't know the way to get it. So in 1993 Kuwait send team of expert to Saudi Arabia to know the best ways to extract the oil from underground. And the expert of Kuwait successfully extracts the oil from underground. And the end of 1993 the oil produces rise to be 2. 5 million. And in the 2005 the Kuwait produces a huge amount of oil and rise to be 3. 5 million. And form FIGURE 1 graph shows that in year 2000 Kuwait gets the third place in world liquid petroleum reserves.
FIGURE 1: pitcher shows the rank some countrise in world liquid petroleum reserves
Source: rekuwait.wordpress
although there are some people argue when some people travel to do their work in other countries. They don't learn any things to improve their country. But there are some people when they travel they learn important information to improve their country. For examples Kuwait citizen rise the percentage of oil when they travel to other countries.
Another reason that some people disagree when people travel to other countries for their work. They may be using that for their own advantage. For instance, some environmental researcher discovers new type of tree that use in medicine and they will sell to get a lot of money. But in reality the huge number of worker when they travel they bring a new idea to help their country to improve in some felid. For example, Kuwait in 1990 to 2001 sent teams of environmental researchers to Africa because they want to do some studies and research to their environment . And also the Kuwait know the important of improving the marine environment. "The uses of the marine environment have diversified enormously" (Al-Rifaie, Al-Yamani, Morgan, Jawad, Behbehani, & Ismail, 2007, P.117). The marine environment have a lot of benefit for examples, it's consider one of the food recourse. And it's also used for shipping, aquaculture. But the most important uses if for drinking water. And in 2001 the environmental researcher gets very valuable information that will helps the Kuwait environment to be better. The end of 2001 improves their marine environment and knows it's considering one of the best countries of Arabian countries in that felid. And from FIGURE 2 shows Kuwait expert use modern technology to clean the sea from toxic substances.
FIGURE 2: pitcher shows expert clean Kuwait Sea
Source: CNN
Despite there are some don't like the idea of people travel for work. But without travelling to other countries and bring nee idea to improve their own countries. There will be some countries don't be improve for examples, Kuwait marine environment.
Moreover, It's has been argued that when some people travel to other countrise that will affect the family member because that will make the family dispersed. There are some people prefer life close to each other. "The quality of life is closely associated with the opportunity for personal growth" (Jo, Huh, Kosciulek, & Holecek, 2004, P.38). One of the most important quality of life is to live next to each other and also it's give people good opportunity to grow and if they face any problem there will be always someone will help them. . But people who travel can bring new experience that actually will benefit their family. For examples, some people when they travel to other countries can learn new idea and thought that will help them to start their own business. And that can help their family in financially if any members need some money. And other benefit if some member of the family starts his own business. It will help every member of the family to get great opportunity to work in that company and make the name of the family famous. It's true that some people things that when member of the family travel for work will make the family dispersed. One the other hand it can help the all the family to be successful.
In short travel for divide into two sides which are the positive and negative things that will happen if people travel for several months. One of the positive thinks that happen if people travel for work, they will have opportunity to see new cultural for countries. On the other hand one of the bad things that may be happens if people travel for work. It may be affects their family in bad way. And there are some people who argue of some effect when people travel for work. One of them is when some people travel abroad for work that will affect the way they do their business because they will distracted on new facilities of that countries rather that castrate on their work. Also there are some people argue when people travel to other countries that will affect the way they treat their family in bad way. One of the reasons that I think travel for work considers one of the important issues because people will know the negative and positive things of the subject. That will help people to avoid the negative things that will happen if people travel for work and enjoy the positive that they will face if they travel for work. , therefor it would benefit internationally business and individual worker if more employees travel for work.
