As plastic surgery becomes more popular, and the technology of plastic surgery becomes more mature, the population of people having plastic surgery operation has become higher. Figure 1 explains the population of people having plastic surgery of the six main countries of plastic surgery in 2007. From Figure 1, it can be seen that there were 278,092 operations of plastic surgery in Korea, 98,522 operations of plastic surgery in America, 60,563 operations of plastic surgery in Mexico, 51,567 operations of plastic surgery in Brazil, 46,713 operations of plastic surgery in Japan, and 32,364 operations of plastic surgery in China. According to it, we can see that people who have the most plastic surgery are Korean. According to Yi Huang, "there are more than 80 percent of women in Korean are willing to change their looks through cosmetic operation"(n.p.). It can be seen how popular plastic surgery has become in the world. The society should pay more attention to it. Is plastic surgery good or not?
Figure1: (Yi H. n.p.)
Haiken, E. said, "Hence, reconstructive plastic surgery refers to any surgery done to correct visible physical deformities or defects on a human body, such as a cleft palate or drooping eyelids. Cosmetic plastic surgery on the other hand refers to the alteration of a person's physical appearance, as a form of 'self-improvement' or 'self-enhancement'." (n.p.).
In Western culture during the Middle Ages, voluptuous limbs and rounded bellies used to be the standards by which the ideal female beauty was defined. In the 20th Century, incredibly thin models and movie stars with their impracticable low-calorie diets are celebrated and idolised on television, in cinemas and in advertisements. The increased and widespread exposure to this new fixation had led entire societies, especially women, to resort to 'miracle' drugs, quick fixes and grossly unhealthy eating habits, in pursuit of physical perfection. The emergence and popularity of new TV reality shows such as Extreme Makeover and The Swan and dramas such as Nip/ Tuck, may explain the increasing trend of more people going under the knife and allowing their bodies to be sculpted and reengineered, often to the extreme and sometimes ending in irreversible scarring and pain.
From the introduction by Haiken, E., we can have a good understanding of how plastic surgery has evolved over the decades to become a de facto lifestyle trend of the 21st century modern society. Plastic surgery is a medical specialty concerned with the correction or restoration of form and function. Though cosmetic or aesthetic surgery is the best-known kind of plastic surgery, most plastic surgery is not only cosmetic. Plastic surgery also includes many types of reconstructive surgery, hand surgery, micro-surgery, the treatment of burns, and so on. With the development of this technology of plastic surgery, people can benefit a lot from plastic surgery.
Many people think plastic surgery is very dangerous for their health. There must be a risk with plastic surgery operations. For example, nose operations can cause infections, blood vessel fractures, subcutaneous bleeding, and leave scars.
However, there can be a risk with plastic surgery operations, this does not mean that people cannot have plastic surgery. People can go to the Plastic institutions which have been given permission by the nation to have plastic surgery. The institutions must have professional qualification of medical hairdressing to carry out this kind of operations. As long as they follow medical standardized operation, and have good qualifications, people can trust their skills. Generally the operations will not cause the consequences that the patients find particularly difficult to accept. The reason why most people think plastic surgery operations are dangerous is because they do not trust this kind of technology at all. They do not know the details clearly about it. However, if patients were better informed they would realize the technology helps in performing better surgery. For example, "Clinical photographs should always be taken with the same camera lens, lens setting, lighting, film, and patient position to ensure reproducibility and to enable valid pre- and postoperative comparisons." (Dibernardo, Barry. P559). According to this outline on photographic technique, it gives information on how accurate the plastic surgery is. This kind of technology has been developed for a long time, and has become very mature. It almost has a perfect success rate.
Plastic surgery is sometimes very necessary. For example, reconstructive surgery. Some operations leave different kinds of scarring. Plastic surgery operations can modify the scar or even eliminate the scar. This belongs to reconstructive surgery. For example, another necessary form of plastic surgery is treatment in daily life, because of some fortuitous accidents, such as fire disasters, traffic accidents, and any other accidents, these could usually cause many wounds, after the wounds healed soundly make ugly scars. So at this condition, the wounded could have a plastic surgery operation to eliminate the scar. Also, plastic surgery can modify the innate body defects of people. Plastic surgery can be very beneficial for kids who are born with innate body defects, such as harelip, physical disabilities, and any other kinds of body defect. Medical plastic surgery operation could help to modify the defect. Figure 2 below gives us an example of a plastic surgery operation to treat harelip, this is a kind of operation to sew up the gap. The left picture shows the child's lip before the operation, the right picture shows the child's lip after the operation. It can be seen how the child's look have changed.
Figure2: Gao, Z. n.p.
According to Papatheodorou, L.K., Dailiana, Z.H., Varitimidis, S.E., Hantes, M.E., Basdekis, G.K., and Malizos, K.N., "In a 6-year period, 106 large soft tissue digital defects were reconstructed with the use of flaps in 101 patients." (P153) This is another kind of medical technology of plastic surgery. Breast cancer has become a big threat to women's health. The risk after the operation for breast cancer is also a suffering for woman. But there has been a measure to deal with this risk. According to Demir, S. G. and Bulut, H., "Mastectomy due to breast cancer is one of the most severe traumas a woman can experience in her lifetime. The objective of breast reconstruction is to alleviate the woman's feelings of being an "incomplete and crippled" person in the face of losing a sexual organs, despite the disease she has suffered" (P95). With this technology, more women do not have to suffer from losing a sexual organ and beauty. It may give women a new beginning of a happy life.
"Restoration of the structure of umbilicus to its most natural form in abdominoplasty, breast reconstruction, or primary reconstruction of the umbilicus due to surgery or trauma has been the goal of plastic surgeons from the early times of modern plastic surgery." (Massiha, n.p.)
People think having plastic surgery operations, especially cosmetic surgery, will make people become fake. They must have their reasons. Now, many people pursue some stars' appearances.
"Plastic surgery behavior itself is the process for the beautiful pursuit, only relate with individual way of life and aesthetic point. But as more and more repeat plastic news flood into our eyes, psychologists have expressed concerns. Frequent shaping them, is likely to be cosmetic addictive, suffering from a "cosmetic addiction". Of course, it must be pointed out that not all the people who go to the plastic have psychological problems, also not against some appropriate facial plastic surgery." (Liang Chang, n.p.)
According to this information, we can see the psychology problem of plastic surgery. So it is very important to have a correct mind about plastic surgery before hand.
The pursuit of beauty is a human instinct and human nature, but beauty has multiple levels. It is not only for eyebrows, eyes, nose and mouth, but also a coordination of feeling. Therefore, people who pursue beauty through plastic surgery must with the actual conditions of themselves, adjust their own state of mind. With the correct mind about plastic surgery, it will make people more beautiful and healthy. For example, it can help treat blemishes. Many people have lots of blemishes on their face because of many reasons, for example, because of an exuberant metabolism, or a skin disease. With this condition, they can have plastic surgery to modify these ugly scars. It can also modify a defect and complete a body. Plastic surgery is becoming more and more popular, especially for women who care very much about their looks. Where they do not like of their body, they will go to the have plastic surgery operations, such as, rhinoplasty, shaving down their cheeks, orogolomistician(eye) surgery, have breast augmentation and so on. After people have a better appearance, without the obvious scar on skin, without the innate defect, and without the ugly parts on their body, they will be more confident. Just like this girl from Japan in Figure 3, who made little changes on her face, like making their eyes bigger and making their cheek thinner. The girl became more beautiful and smiles more confidently. Plastic surgery cannot only be effective on the physical level, but also on the psychological level, as it makes people feel good about themselves.
Figure3: Mu, C. n.p.
The pursuit of beauty is natural. Everyone has the right to pursue beauty and the perfection. Plastic surgery may help people increase their confidence and satisfaction in their looks and body. They will not be afraid of something that they worried about before. They will decrease the dissatisfaction and suffering on their mind.
However, beauty and personal image also can affect employment. "Economic problems have led to increased biases against unattractive people in employment and notes economics studies suggesting attractive people earn more than unattractive people." (Bennett, J., P46).
People also think plastic surgery operations cost much money. In order to have plastic surgery operations, some people even sell everything they have to afford the expense. This is a wrong way to think about plastic surgery. It is actually life that is the most important, and if the disease threatens life, people should try our best for treatment. But for Plastic surgery, people do not have to be so inflexible. Without plastic surgery, it does not necessarily mean that we cannot be beautiful. If people have enough money to have plastic surgery, they could, but if they do not, they should not. However, "With the development of technology, plastic surgery becomes simpler and more convenient. The expenses also become more and more cheaper, and it also has more and more higher safety. Plastic surgery is no longer the patents of rich or famous people." (Yulian W, n.p.) The plastic industry also propels the economy on this area. Therefore, if people continue having plastic surgery for good necessary, the medical technique will become better.
According to the reasons I said above. I support the technology of plastic surgery. However, people should not abuse the use of plastic surgery as it can have negative effects on their physical appearance. Plastic surgery has developed into a very mature and indispensable necessary technology. This technology has help so many people get rid of their suffering and benefit from it, and give people more confidence.
