04/29/2016 
It's Time to Remove the Steering Wheel 
	When I was on vacation in California, I had a list of things I wanted to see. None of those items were a self-driving car. One night, I was on my way home when I was stopped at an intersection in Mountain View and that's when I saw one of the most inspiring things in my life. I saw a small white car drive by in front of me. What was so unique about it is, there was no steering wheel controlling the car. It was driving itself and inside were two Google employees doing absolutely nothing but enjoying the ride. 
There was only thing going on in my mind at that point of time: 'I want one.' Not only me, but I'm sure hundreds of thousands of drivers are waiting to get their hands on one. The Self-driving car wouldn't benefit just the drivers but also passengers and pedestrians. This nearly covers most of the people in the United States. The real question is, are we, the people of the United States, ready for self-driving cars? Drivers would say they aren't, simply because they wouldn't trust technology with their lives. Paid drivers would lose their jobs affecting the economy. Despite the drawbacks, I still believe we are ready as we ever will be and that this is the right time to release such a technology to the public for consumer use. 
A Self-Driving car is a vehicle that heavily relies on sensors to navigate itself through its environment without any human input ("Self-Driving Car Project"). One of the many purposes of having a self-driving car is to make individuals dependent on a driver become independent. Google has been developing the self-driving car since 2009 and since then there have been great improvements in the technology ("Self-Driving Car Project"). In October 2015, Tesla Motors released their innovative solution: Autopilot (The Tesla Motors Team, "Your Autopilot has arrived"). Even though these technologies are being developed at a rapid rate, there are no set laws to govern these self-driving cars. 
	Google has been developing the self-driving car with the aim to reduce the number of accidents on the road. Every year, there are more than 5. 5 million accidents in the United States. As the safety standards increased, Google pushed these vehicles out onto public roads. They began testing these cars on highways and public streets to see how well they respond to their environment. Since the beginning of the project, all of the self-driving cars tested by Google, have been involved in only 14 accidents collectively. All of these accidents were caused due to human error which is the main cause for accidents. Google maintains that there was no fault made by the self-driving cars. This goes to show that we have already started adapting the self-driving car onto our roads safely. 
	Google isn't the only company testing self-driving cars on the road. Tesla Motors is a premium automotive company who is also working on this technology. In October 2015, they released a new feature for their cars: Autopilot. Autopilot is a software that uses sensors and cameras to maintain its lane, control its speed and auto-park. It can also detect oncoming vehicles and avoid collisions by swerving out of the way. Although Autopilot isn't as well developed as Google's self-driving car, it still has features which are already saving lives on the road. Multiple online reports are claiming that the vehicle is saving lives by avoiding collisions on the streets (Soper, "Tesla's new autopilot technology prevents crash on slick Seattle road"). Videos on social media show the car automatically adjusting its course to avoid collision with another car on the highway. This goes to show that the technology is already being used by people and has already started having an impact in the way we drive. 
Now that we know it has started making an impact, let's look into a specific example. For many, the commute to work and back is a long tiring process which involves hours being spent in long lines of traffic. Instead of paying attention to the road, self-driving cars will give you the opportunity to utilize that time do something more productive. It can also help reduce the stress levels of many when they get stuck in traffic. Increased stress levels and fatigue can lead to accidents on the road. In this case, the driver is clearly at fault. However, when the human element is removed what will happen? 
	The big question everyone asks when an accident occurs is, 'whose fault is it?' The only way we know how to settle this case is by turning to the law. However, there are no laws written regarding self-driving cars. In an accident, who's to blame? The human inside the vehicle or the vehicle itself? As of today, the only law regarding self-driving vehicles is that it can only be used for development and testing and not for consumer use. We may not have laws ready at this moment to adapt self-driving cars immediately but soon we will have something to help maintain decorum. New laws are being written every day and Google is already behind many Governments to allow self-driving cars in their states. I believe that these new laws will also hold automotive industries responsible since they are the ones making the cars. 
	We are already seeing the impact automation can bring to the automotive industry. Automation is killing jobs and reducing the employment all over the country. With self-driving cars being added to the equation not only manufacturers but also taxi drivers, truck drivers, delivery services, and personal drivers will lose their jobs. As of today there are 233,700 taxi drivers and chauffeurs ("Occupational Outlook Handbook - Taxi Drivers and Chauffeurs"). 
However, drivers are still human beings who make mistakes. Mistakes on the road can cost lives and the main aim of self-driving cars is to reduce the number of accidents that are taking place. Soon we will be able to save hundreds of lives not to mention their money involved when self-driving cars are released on the roads. We will never be ready until we push our boundaries and start bringing them out onto the roads. Google has already been successfully testing these cars in Mountain View, California with very few incidents. In the time to come, the technology is meant to get better, reducing the number of total accidents on road. Tesla's Autopilot is already on the roads with people claiming to have avoided accidents thanks to this new technology. In a world full of advanced technology, it only seems fair that everyone has the same amount of freedom and independence when it comes to transportation. Self-driving cars will allow many more people who were dependent on a driver to become independent. Self-Driving cars are going to help save time and allow us to become more productive during our commute to work and back. In my opinion we are ready to bring this new technology onto the roads. We are as ready as we ever will be. 
