Do you need God? 
Religion is perhaps one of the most controversial and personal ideals in the world today. Although the genesis of religion was established thousands of years ago, many people to this day do not understand the theology behind religion and hence disregard it. However, one may have their preconceived notions and views about religion and God, and whether God is fact or fictional; but what I believe serves as a fundamental aspect to each and everyone's life is the idea of God being in your life. Do you have God in your life? I feel it is certainly a necessity in this world today for someone to believe in such a strong and powerful force such as God. In fact, the only powerful spirit in this world today is God himself. As a result, I want to cement my case that people need God! We need God to swerve our lives around from a dark, dungeon and delinquent life to an eternal and everlasting life filled with the Holy Spirit, wisdom and blessings. 
It is absolutely essential that we have God in our life in order to receive wisdom. Wisdom incorporates knowledge and principles that leads to a person becoming wise. It is impossible to find a person who knows all the qualities to become wise. There will never be a time where we have someone to turn to who will always be there to give us advice. However, with God in our life, we can always rely on God, we can always seek out for God and he will always be there to hear our problems and gives us advice. According to Rational Christianity, 2010, para 3 "God is of course omniscient and perfectly wise, but furthermore he is always available and willing to teach us wisdom." Furthermore, we all someway or another desire to become better people, more loving and caring people in our lives. Nobody on Earth are good people, or perfect people or free from sin. These characteristics belong to Jesus Christ alone! Only he, the Son of God is the only 
good person in this world, a person free from all sin. We as humans of flesh are all sinners, but we can become good people by having God in our life. It is inevitable for us humans to have evil inclinations in our hearts and minds because we are sinners, and as we are surrounded in this world by evil, wicked ways, we cannot change for the better on our own. We need God to transform our body, mind, soul and spirit in order to resist temptations and become better people. People filled with a morality of good heartedness. 
Moreover, I feel we need God for strength in our life. Many of us today are suffering in many ways, either through social, financial, physical, mental and above all spiritual problems. People who do not have God in their life are the first one's to give up on life. They are more likely to tremble to the struggle and be defeated. As a Christian, I had a turning point in my time when I learnt about God's words and his Biblical verses on the importance and patience of life. I learnt that everything has a time; there is a time for happiness, a time to struggle, a time for freedom and a time for laughter. I took these powerful words in deeply and understood not to rush through my days as if there was no tomorrow, but to just live life as it came. With this mentality, God provided me the strength to push me through my trials and tribulations in life. God empowered me to become courageous in all that I do. In addition, many of us today have a sense of misjudgment in our life, we are all walking on a lonely pathway where there is no light, no guidance, no sense of hope or faith. If we let God into our lives, he can direct us in our lives. He can guide us to take control and overcome the bad, he can guide us to provide light even in our most treacherous moments and he can guide us to uplift our spirit and hope in him! It may seem like an impossible idea to depend on God, a spirit guiding us. According to Bitsko, 2013, para 8 with God in our life, all we need is faith! 
	To conclude, I believe that with God, we can change our lives for the better. With God, we can seek for wisdom, guidance, strength and morality by just praying and asking for God to enter into our lives. We should not be blind to the destructive forces in this world, although inevitable, we should not succumb to the evil and wicked ways of this world filled with warfare. In order to deceive the fear, chaos, pain and darkness in our life, there is only one solution. The only way to be free from this is to allow God to enter our lives. I wonder why people think they do not need God? If it is obvious that God is the only necessary person needed to improve our lives just like it has improved my life and many others. Then why don't people reel themselves into God? It is necessary that we participate in any organization that seeks to spread the Word of God so that we can receive the Holy Spirit. With a deep understanding of the Bible and God through study sessions, this can really provide a good platform for a person to learn more about God and let him into their life. If we let brothers and sisters in Christ to encourage us, if we let these servants of God to take us into the arms of the Heavenly Father, we are ultimately being saved by God! Ask yourself, do you want a life filled with meaning, value and a purpose, a life that will be eternal and everlasting? All we need is God! 
REFERENCE: 
Bitsko, M. 2013. 3 reasons why you need God in your life. 
Retrieved from: http://familyshare.com/faith/3-reasons-why-you-need-god-in-your-life 
Rational Christianity. 2010. Do you need God? 
Retrieved from: http://www.rationalchristianity.net/need_god.html 
