P5D1 
04/10/2016 
How to increase the population of audience to watch commercial movies 
In the previous ten years, commercial movies had a great succeed with significant number of audiences. But in the recent times, many economists predicted that there would be a fall of audience's population, which would make the whole marketing shock and that is not a good phenomenon. The most effective way that movie marketing changes this situation and attracts more people is stop shooting countless movie and begin making better of movies of same types. 
First, only good movie with higher reputation can break the boundary of different types of audience. In this recent years, the demand, the audiences of one same type's movie, becomes a fixed population; but the supply, the same types movies, has a significant increasing number. When supply is far more than demand, it will cause the unbalanced of the supply chain. Plenty of awful movies that have high box office with lower reputation will decrease the interesting of audience, especially the new audience who is not familiar with these movies. But more fantastic commercial movies will give those audiences good impress and maybe next time they will come back to watch the movie that has affinity type. 
The next reason is less movies and more promotion will bring higher popularity. If one movie company has too many movies released at the same time, there is not enough money for them to promote it. Once the promotion is successful to catch people's eyeballs, and more people know what is the movie looks like, they will be willing to pay for it. To put trailer on the Internet and have castings' meet-and-greet is important for attaching new audience. For example, when someone who is not a fan of one type movie browse the web pages or watching TV, they will mention the information of this movie, and they will become the potential target. 
The last one is great combination of art directors and commercial movie actors and actress is an advertising way to sale the movie to public. Famous art directors have their own reputation before they shoot this commercial movie, people always have an expectation of their movie; and the attendances of those celebrities, who have a considerable amount of fans and excellent acting skill, like Leonard Di Caprio, and Tom Cruise, are the promise of quantity. And this movie will have more possibility of successes. 
However, there is some opposed voice. Some of them think that more movies has been produced, the more random chance of which movies will bring them impressive revenue. More investment, more money will come back. And they also refute that the cost of seeking out the next target of making money is risk. The previous types of movies are hardly failed dramatically until the quality of supply is more than the equilibrium. On the contrary, attempting shooting new pattern of movies has higher chance that comes to nothing. Movie company is not likely to try something really new unless it has a great potential to attract audience or achieving success. 
But, if the company really wants to earn big money and do a long-run business, it is not suitable at all that just afraid of trying; and audiences will not spend two hours on the movie that similar to the last movie they watched. For example, Marvel Studio has failed many times before the huge success of Iron Man with losing nearly total assets. But when they prepare an interesting script and invite Robert Downey Jr. as the hero, they made it. And after this successful trail of superhero movie, countless money came to the Marvel Studio. 
In conclusion, there are three ways that attaching more audience: more advertise, more promotion and less same type movies. It is not easy to success, especially in modern marketing, but if companies want their products be more valuable, they need to create it sincerely. 
