Does church help international students: An argumentative essay 
The migration of students from one country to another for educational purposes is a phenomenon that has a long history. Although the population of international students has grown dramatically, the difficulties faced by international students in the United States have not changed drastically. Being an international student has made me strongly believe in the necessity of finding ways to help international students to solve the obstacles that naturally arise in a new country and academic environment. Some previous studies showed that church work helps international students fit into American society, but do those works really? If so, how do they help international students? In my opinion, international students will have a positive academic and personal experience if they enjoy a satisfying contact with religious communities. 
International students confront academic problems such as adjusting to second languages or new educational systems. Undoubtedly, the US has diversified requirements of general education instead of asking students to enroll in courses only related to their own major like most of other countries. Thus, a sudden change in academic life leads international students to confusion. However, churches help students to smooth the transition of academic life. Mrs. Qu, who is a ministry assistant in "Upper Room Christian Student Fellowship", told her experience in the interview, in which I asked her questions concerning how church help her fit into American academic system. She claimed that churches provide her guidance, build up her positive attitudes towards study, and lead her to learning about how theology shapes her unique perspective and own values. In addition, she learns Christianity through a series of exciting activities, such as weekly biblical teaching, choir training, fellowship meals, and a cross-cultural friendship program. These activities support her building religion-oriented thinking model, through advocating selflessness and cooperation, which can be applied on her academic study. A study done by Clain and Zech (2008), reports that churches comprise the largest group of nonprofit organizations with abundant opportunities for volunteer activities, which tend to be identified as "student-friendly". Those behaviors, including preparing dinner for weekly lectures, and planning Thanksgiving and Christmas events, provide a good opportunity for international students to get along with domestic students. These events are useful in cultivating their cooperative spirit. All in all, churches bring international students a real American society that emphasizes equality, freedom and multiple values. 
International students expose themselves in a free and liberal culture with emphasis on independence, which is quite different from their cultures with close family ties and distinct patterns of religious beliefs. Nevertheless, churches can solve their personal issues like homesickness as well as cross-cultural problems such as understanding and adjusting to new social norms. A survey done by Malcolm Lewthwaite, "International Student's Perspectives on Cross-culture Adaption", claims that what makes it difficult for international students to adapt to American society is the lack of engaging in real opportunities through relaxing means. The survey results show that, compared to devoting time to non-market involvement, international students are significantly more likely to spend relatively more time working with church ministries, which indicates respondents found that engaging in the church work facilitates significant interactions. As the study continues to be looked down, Ranji Selvadual later states that churches enable to establish strong services to international students, accomplished through campus friendship programs, international student clubs and social events with members of the community. These concepts offer possibilities of a mutually rewarding relationship between the American society and the international students. This gives them the opportunity to learn from one another, and build a mutual understanding relationship gradually. In brief, churches are recognized as a wholesome atmosphere for international students and scholars. 
Religious communities are one of the most important sources of social capital. Here, social capital refers to the collective value of all "social networks" (who people know) and the inclinations that arise from these networks. In the article describing the benefits of social capital for international students, Jeong says "being a membership in a religious community significantly increases an individual's social capital". Increase social capital means enlarging networking of international students, which is important for them to get out of closed communities and understand diversified cultures better. Churches increase social capital in many ways. Firstly, churches provide an important incubator for civil skills, civil norms, community interests, and civic recruitment by helping people learn to give speeches, run meetings, manage responsibilities and bear disagreements. Next, church members befriend others who often join the religious community and engage in various forms of community activity. Churches also help to create social capital by motivating members to take part in charitable and voluntary activities. Additionally, churches' religious ideals lead their members to believe that they are driven by divine force, which encourage them to make sacrifices that help them focus on people other than themselves. Compared to other involvements, churches have an irreplaceable position and provide international students unique feelings. According to the survey done by Lewthwaite mentioned before, going to churches is the most stable and predictable thing that something else may not be. Volunteers feel pressure when they near their capacity for non-market involvement. Instead, the social capital that churches provide emphasizes not just warm and cuddly feelings, but a wide variety of quite specific benefits that flows from trust, reciprocity, information and cooperation associated with social networks. Lewthwaite claims, "Social capital in church creates values and increases the participants productivity". To sum up, belonging to a religious community can meaningfully increase an individual's social capital. 
On the other hand, some scholars note that the relationship between religious communities and happiness is not very tight. Lewis, as a professor in University of Ulster, implies that there is no significant link between a greater frequency of church attendance and happiness (Lewis, 2008). Although, without doubt, it is true that international students' general attitudes toward their new life are influenced by a wide variety of sources, the investigation results suggest that it is the messages received from the students' parents and peers are highly correlated with their attitudes, rather than the church works. For example, if one has a friend circle that lost interest in church community, or his parents have conflicting beliefs, he hardly feels happy even though he goes to church work every single day. Besides, differences in male and female friendship styles may prevent males from being influenced greatly by their peers, while females are more likely to develop intimate bonds with same-sex friends than are males (Bell, 1981). However, according to Lewis, the conclusion is somewhat limited. One possible explanation for the lack of significant effects for the perceived attitude of the church is the failure to consider the subjects' devoutness. Therefore, it is possible that, for some highly devout subjects, the church has been a major source of impact. 
As it's a prevalent trend of students to continue their study abroad, we must ensure that it's not eroded by challenges that can be avoided by various ways. It can be seen that there are some counselors and educators support my ideas, and they indicate that both church works and concepts bring international students a positive feeling. This gives them positive academic and personal experience, which guides them to adapt to the new life. There are sources contrasts my main idea, however. It is considered appropriate that the international students' values and attitudes to the new life might be directed at their parents and peer group level to maximize effectiveness. To be honest, I have my own experience of assisting in the church. It is a great feeling to make a lot of like-minded friends, and a huge sense of accomplishment to know that I do the good things in this community. While there are two apparent sides to this argument, I strongly stick to my original opinion due to my personal experience and the interview on top of supporting evidences from the literary review. 
