Argumentative Essay - First Draft 
	The global economy has been transformed in recent decades, due largely to improvements in communication and logistics. As shown in multiple sources, communications especially has had a tremendous effect, including on logistics. The spread of online connectivity combined with new and more powerful computer systems has altered the standards of logistics and transportation, but unfortunately such a revolution has not occurred in the actual transportation of goods since the 1970's. We still use the same trucks, trains and ships that we did then, albeit with some improvements. Since electronic technologies have hit a sort of plateau in terms of revolutionary development for the past six or seven years (a trend that might be continuing for some time), the next step in improving logistics should be in transportation machinery. 
	A very large portion of the transportation of goods is by eighteen plus wheeled semi-trucks, especially in America where they are the driving force (pun intended) of our economy. While there are many newer designs out on our highways, how much of an improvement do these trucks really offer in the larger scheme of things? They offer marginally better fuel economy, but that is as far as it goes. There are also still many old trucks on the road, such as old Peterbuilts and Macks with giant chrome bumpers and fenders, and while they look cool and provide a piece of old-school Americana they are extremely outdated. For how long are we going to use these archaic machines for transportation? 
	As the world's population grows larger and larger it will become increasingly difficult to provide goods and services to all of the people. Trucks provide nothing but a limit on our capacity for transportation. While smaller trucks will remain necessary for delivery to local areas, on a larger scale trucks will have to be replaced with more modern and more efficient systems, especially as the demand for sustainable energy logistics grows larger and larger. 
	The future rests in two technologies, and ironically neither of them are truly new designs. The first is trains. Yes, trains being outdated has been discussed in this very essay, however there are many ways rail infrastructure can be improved to meet the demands of the future. Many people have heard about Elon Musk's "Hyperloop" ideas, and while those are a little.out there, less extreme versions of the same idea can be implemented starting today. Magnetic rail propulsion, electric systems rather than diesel hybrids and automation are all ways rail transportation can be improved. 
	The other technology which can have a big role in the future is airships. While they were last used on a wide scale in the 1930's, it was a mistake to abandon the concept altogether due to a few unfortunate accidents. There are actual functioning airship prototypes today that are perfectly safe, can transport a very large amount of product, and are extremely efficient since they are boyant and use energy only for forward propulsion. 
