ENGL106 (APA) 
Assignment 4 
Draft 3 
20.04. 2016 
Funding of Student Organizations 
My argumentative paper is going to cover student organizations and their contributions to the students and university as a whole. "Getting and staying involved is one of the most important things you can do while in college. "Involvement" is defined as any activity outside the classroom which enhances and contributes to student learning" (Michigan State University's Benefits of Involvement, 2010). Universities all over country have countless organizations and clubs sponsored by the university itself or covering up their own costs through specific fees established by the group and taken from the members of the group. Students, teachers, and parents expect that membership in these organizations will result in learning and enhanced skills as well as the development of positive values, social skills, and an ability to work independently and collaboratively (Vaughn, Kieth, Lockaby & Williams 1999). The latter usually occurs when universities refuse to cover the cost of the activities of student organizations or only fund them partially. Therefore, the organizations that are not funded properly cannot be as efficient and as helpful to the students and contribute much to campus life. I am convinced that the universities have to cover the full cost of the student organizations and help sustain their status and their activities for several reasons such as student comfort, community benefits, and university reputation. 
	Universities value their students and want them to stay happy and healthy. Clubs and student organizations give students a chance to socialize extensively and find likeminded people to keep them company and provide moral support when needed (Slick, 2007). The groups usually host get-together parties and do different projects to improve both their own lives and the lives of those around them. Being together with their companions makes students feel content in their lives and do better in school, which leads to them being more functional as human beings. For example, it is statistically proven that participants of Greek life are more successful in life than the students who do not participate in any organizations. Greek life, more than other clubs, brings people together by binding them through various activities, light hazing, and countless memories alongside their brothers and sisters. 
While student organizations function primarily to gather likeminded people, groups also get together to better the community and society in general. However, this is not all groups have to offer. In fact, student associations often help those in need and host cultural events that educate people around them on current issues and diversity in general. Moreover, student associations usually volunteer at social events and do community service projects. For example, the participants of habitat for humanity often travel to remote destinations in order to improve ordinary lives of underprivileged people from impoverished areas, such as multiple countries in Africa. As Mahambet Aitkaly mentioned in his interview, service is very important to university associations. The Kazakh organization constantly participates in various fundraisers as well as donates blood once a year as a group. If Purdue university provides those groups with money that commit to offering service to others, more groups could afford to help others and therefore make the world a better place. 
	Since students compose the majority of the universities' residents and the universities need to stay attractive to the students in order to function, it is important for the universities to stay sound. Having a diversity of clubs shows how well rounded the university is and how much attention they pay to their student body. Funding those clubs is a logical way to support development on campus and overall globalization. If there were no clubs or no clubs funded by the university, people with similar backgrounds and hobbies but in different majors may have never met. As MA suggested in the interview, the organizations make students feel more at home. For example, the Kazakh association always looks after its participants and takes care of the newly arrived students. The older members of the group organize trips to Walmart, help with scheduling classes and even make sure the students plan their residential options beforehand. Oftentimes, they end up living close by one another to provide maximum support. Moreover, the students can be a way to advertise the university, and happy students are the best advertisement and reputation booster for the university. 
	Some people think that institutions can not sponsor every organization simply because there are not enough funds. There are too many communities and organizations, therefore, universities would rather spend money they have on research and innovations. However, if we took the student tuition into consideration, it would average out to be around 30,000$ per student per year. With such an immense amount of money, one would formulate the idea that universities should have the required funds to subsidize these organizations on campus. Usually, universities have a budget system and should be able to save a certain amount of money for these clubs. 
	Additionally, some funders believe that as a top research university, Purdue should make no effort in aiding recreational clubs. This is because recreational clubs are not beneficial to the university's efforts in more "serious" goals. However, it is important for students on campus to search for their interests. This not only builds themselves as future leaders, but also improves their resumes. Most employers and interviewers look for students that get actively involved in student organizations. The students that participate in various activities are more likely to stand out. However, if universities do not fund such clubs, then in what other ways can a student practice to develop their interpersonal skills. According to multiple surveys, students engaged in a variety of clubs are three times more likely to not only get an internship early in their careers, but also gain more job experience and therefore be able to qualify for a higher position in a career ladder. 
	Students in universities tend to prioritize their studies first and leave getting involved on campus last. This belief lessens the demand for joining organizations and reduces students' time committing to extracurricular activities. With that, sponsors and funders make no effort to fund these clubs, but instead fund more "academic" organizations since that is what the students prefer. Research and studies show that students who take no breaks while studying tend to perform worse academically. However, if the university makes an effort to fund recreational clubs, then there would be more incentives for students to participate. With this, students' grades start to improve. 
	There will always be an ongoing debate about whether universities should be heavily involved in funding student organizations or fund their resources in other activities on campus. However, according to my research, I have concluded that universities should fund student organizations more often. The reason being is because it not only helps the students' social life, but also benefits the university and society conclusively. 
