11/20/15 
Prohibiting Eating Dog Meat 
	There are many kinds of foods are in our world. Every country has its own traditional foods and tastes. There are so many different foods and traditions that some religions prohibit eating foods like pork or beef. Though, there are so many foods in our world, which we will not able to eat all of those kinds of foods. However, there are some foods that are world wise common, popular and daily based. Eating cooked meats, especially chicken, pork, or beef, is one of the most common foods that most of people enjoy. There are many kinds of meats are in our world. Pork, chicken, beef, turkey, duck meat, or sheep meat is the common meats that people eat and mostly accepted as an eatable livestock. They are professionally raised as a livestock and produced as a food to the humans. However, in Korea, Koreans are not only producing those common meats as beef and pork, but also they produce dog meats which are not commonly accepted as a livestock. Most country in our world will see dog as a pet not an eatable meat. Korea should prohibit eating dog meats. 
	Eating meat is a common behavior to the most of people, only if the meat is accepted as a common livestock. However, dog is more commonly accepted as a pet, army, police, sheepdog, or sled dog. In Korea, it is legal to eat dog meats. Scientifically and in real life, dogs are close to humans and it helps us in many ways. As people know, there are no animals that can be perfectly trained to help a person who is visually impaired or handicapped. Also, some dogs can be trained to perfectly detect drugs or rescue humans' lives. Those dogs are trained harshly and stressful at the time they born until they die. Also, even there are some cases that dogs with the superb olfactory nerve can detect cancers before doctors or high tech equipment do. As we can see, it is not wrong to say dogs can have different meanings to the humans than other animals, not as a meat Kim, 2015. 
	Therefore, we are not wrong to say dogs are not same as animals such as cows, chickens, or pigs which are mostly accepted as a livestock, because, in many ways, dogs are helpful to the humans' lives and dogs can do something that other animals cannot perform or even before humans. 
