Argument about whether to develop study abroad in China 
At this day and age, more and more Chinese parents choose to send their children to study abroad. Chinese students is in a high proportion in American schools. Even some schools make a lot of changes in admission and financials due to more Chinese students apply for their schools. Economy, society and policy, study abroad has become a hot issue. However, some people think it is a bad idea that more Chinese students study abroad, but I want to refute, study abroad should be strongly advocated by Chinese government. 
In the first place, some people think study abroad will cause the outflow of talents. If Chinese government makes the policy more flexibly, more and more students are willing to choose to study abroad. Most students not only have the well financial support background, but also are very talented. It is a huge loss of China. Nonetheless, in my opinion, study abroad will not cause the outflow of talents but give a chance for these talented students to develop themselves. After they come back to China, they are the bright future of China. American education has its own style. It is totally different from that in China. In China, Chinese teachers only ask students to remember all the knowledge the book motioned and the students cannot speak their own opinions. However, American teachers communicate a lot with students in class. The aim of homework is to help develop the ability of finding, discovering and solving the problem. But, the Chinese students even do not have the freedom to choose what they want to learn. Angela, 2012 Thus, if students study in America, they should be much different than those study in China. Their talent can be discovered deeply. China needs the people like them with ambition and creativity. So, I recommend Chinese government to develop study abroad. 
	In the second place, some people argue about sending more Chinese students actually increases the economy of America. The tuition fee of international students is much more expansive than the local students. According to this and the big population, America receives a great amount of fund in tuition fee. Whereas I maintains it is a unilateral conclusion. As I notice above, study abroad is a long term investment. Maybe these students do not make any contribution after they graduate, but they are sure to be much easier to adapt to the new environment and settle various kinds of situation. Therefore, in the career position, these students can make more contribution so that the quality of the whole country is improving. For example, transnational corporation is a popular industry. If the students have a background of study abroad, they can play a significant role in these transnational corporations. As we all know, China has a lot of business contact with U.S. So, sending more students to study abroad will not cause the fund pressure but create more opportunities to develop the economy. 
	Last but not least, the policy of seclusion in Qing dynasty made Chinese people out of the current world. It means that in some places, China has defects. Young people are the future and the main strength of development. Only if they lead the right and advanced way, China can keep pace with the developed countries. Students who study abroad, they can make friends from all around world. Because of culture diversity, the students can learn the beneficial part which is helpful of Chinese development and the bad part that the government should recover. It is very important to have a wide sight of the world. 
In general, better education, great ability and a wide sight demonstrate the Chinese government can advocate more students to study abroad. If everything is in a right way, study abroad is sure to be a transition of China. 
Bibliography 
Angela, W. 2012 'The Difference between Chinese and American Education', Epoch Times. Retrieved from: http://www.theepochtimes.com/n3/1483758-the-difference-between-chinese-and-american-education/ 
