ENGL106 (APA) 
Assignment 4 
Draft 1 
02.04. 2016 
Argumentative Paper 
My argumentative paper is going to cover student organizations and their contributions to the students and university as a whole. Universities all over country have countless organizations and clubs sponsored by the university itself or covering up their own costs through specific fees established by the group and taken from the members of the group. The latter usually occurs when universities refuse to cover the cost of the activities of student organizations or only fund them partially. Therefore, the organizations that are not funded properly cannot be as efficient and as helpful to the students and contribute much to campus life. I am convinced that the universities have to cover the full cost of the student organizations and help sustain their status and their activities for several reasons such as student comfort, community benefits, and university reputation. 
	The universities value their students and want them to stay happy and healthy. Clubs and student organizations give students a chance to socialize extensively and find likeminded people to keep them company and provide moral support when needed. The groups usually host get-together parties and do different projects to improve both their own lives and the lives of those around them. Being together with their companions makes the students feel content in their lives and do better in school, which leads to them being more functional as human beings. 
While student organizations function primarily to gather likeminded people, groups also get together to better the community and society in general. However, this is not all groups have to offer. In fact, student associations often help those in need and host cultural events that educate people around them on current issues and diversity in general. Moreover, student associations usually volunteer at social events and do community service projects. For example, the participants of habitat for humanity often travel to remote destinations in order to improve ordinary lives of underprivileged people; yet they still have to pay for themselves and provide service at the same time. If the university provided for those groups that commit to providing service to others, more groups could afford to help others and therefore make the world a better place. 
	Since students compose the majority of the universities' residents and the universities need to stay attractive to the students in order to function, it is important for the universities to stay sound. Having a diversity of clubs shows how well rounded the university is and how much attention they pay to their student body. Funding those clubs is a logical way to support development on campus and overall globalization. If there were no clubs or no clubs funded by the university, people with similar backgrounds and hobbies but in different majors may have never met. Moreover, the students can be a way to advertise the university, and happy students are the best advertisement and reputation booster for the university. 
	Some people think that institutions can not sponsor every organization simply because there are not enough funds. There are too many communities and organizations, therefore, universities would rather spend money they have on research and innovations. (REBUTTAL) 
	Additionally, a common misconception that some funders believe is that such a reputable university that is heavily involved in research and academic sponsorships should make no effort in aiding recreational clubs. This is because recreational clubs are not beneficial to the university's efforts in more "serious" goals. (REBUTTAL) 
	Students in universities tend to prioritize their studies first and leave getting involved on campus last. This lessens the demand for joining organizations and students' time commitments to being heavily involved in them. With that, sponsors and funders make no effort to fund these clubs, but instead fund more "academic" organizations since that is what the students prefer. (REBUTTAL) 
Dear reader Letter, 
In my first draft, I emphasized my ideas on funding student organizations by stating several ideas that mean a lot to me. In this essay, it is important to notice the transitions into the paragraphs. Also, the tone in the essay is very firm since it is an argumentative essay and I want to state my ideas clearly. I still need to work on my rebuttals, this part is difficult for me because I have to think about other people's ideas from their perspectives. 
1 
