Should European Countries Take in More Syrian Refugees? 
Have you ever seen this picture before? 
This picture was taken by Nilufer Demir of the Dogan News Agency on 9th September. As soon as the picture was published, the whole world was echoed by the death of this young life. The 3-year-old boy, Aylan Kurdi, drowned during his dangerous sea journey from Turkey to Greece with his family. However, Aylan Kurdi was not just a shock to everyone in the world including presidents of many countries, but also just a small part of a 9-milion-scale refugees of the largest refugee flee ever after World War II in human history. Tragedy happens every single day. Due to the burst and overheating situation of civil war in Syria, 9 million innocent people decided to flee outside Syrian border to seek refugee protect and shuttle in other countries, in which European countries turned out to be the most desired place that most refugees wanted to go. Unfortunately, even though many government held a positive attitude to welcome refugees, many argues that their government should stop this dangerous 'kindness'. Besides, because of some recent terrorist attacks in Paris, Syrian refugee situation now has become a urgent topic that need to be solved. In my point of view, I believe that even though there might be many benefits, European governments should stop take in more refugees than their capacity and find some substitutional resolutions to solve this situation. 
Some government settled the refugee camps extremely close or just inside some large-population-size cities. However, this would definitely bring many troubles to local citizens. One of the most significant problem is culture difference. As a matter of fact, since Syrian refugees usually have few experience dealing with western culture, even thought we might say that nowadays Internet make sure our accessibility to different culture and knowledge, both Syrian refugees and local citizens would face some culture obstacles. As a Ph.D. of political science and doctor of Department of political science in Purdue, <name> believed that people has s instinct to protect their own culture from the consuming or effect of other cultures. <name> , personal conversation, October 30, 2015 Taking most international students as an example, even though it is a good experience to make a lot of friends with someone from other countries, most people still chose to spend more time with people who speak same language, eat the same types of food and believe in the same god. Culture background is something that would affect someone easily as a article, written by Alessandra Sgubini pointed out. She compared some typical behaviors of people from different countries with different culture background and the ways of how they measure the value of something. She believed that mediation would be necessary to settle some arguments or conflicts due to the difference of culture background. However, 9 million refugees would require more than mediation considering the huge effect they might have to local culture. 
Also, there might be some negative impacts on economy. Most Syrian refugees come to European countries without bringing any money or they spend most their money to arriving Europe. They would not be spending money which means that they do not have the abilities or the money to purchase. However, people may argue that a lot of industries or companies would consider them as a cheap labor source, which will bring benefits to local economy. As <name> mentioned during the conversation, the total sources that a government owned is limited in many ways. The more the government spend on refugees, the less it would be spend on the budget of military, essential facilities, or medication and education. <name> , personal conversation, October 30, 2015 Refugee camp has the potential to develop into a small-semi city if and only if the government would provide enough right to let the refugee camp rule and organize on their own. Unfortunately, it seems to be unlikely for European countries to evacuate their police force and administration officers because there are still more refugees coming and things will not be settled until the situation in Syria calm. Considering all the factors, for now, those refugees' camps would only become a 'deadweight' or, as we can say, a burden to local economy. 
Another reason why I believe that European countries should not take in more refugees than they could is because the national security would be threated. Reported by BBC, one the most terrifying terrorist attack after 911 happened in Paris last week. More than 130 innocent people was killed during the bombing and shooting in the attack. This terrorist attack was claimed by an organization called ISIS. As BBC reported, the terrorists fled inside the border of European countries by using the cover of identity of Syrian refugees. In fact, the procedure that it takes to finish a paperwork and officially become a 'refugee' is extremely simple; you can even buy it with 1000 dollars. With a reveal like that, it is not hard to imagine how many potential terrorists that are still inside European countries right now. 
In the end, there is one more thing I would like to say about this topic. It is not that I do not care or worry about the refugees. I believe that refugees should be settled well instead of just putting in refugee camp personally as well as many people do. However, logically it has been proved that it would be a bad idea to continue take in more refugees now because more refugees and refugee camps would be both a burden to local economy and culture identity. Also, due to the spying and covering of terrorist organizations like ISIS, it would also be a potential risk to national security. One of the alternative solution to current situation that I would like to propose is to find some places that are far away from major cities or islands that could settle enough refugees until the situation in Syria is settled. 
Engl-106i 
