16 April 2016 
Should students go to boarding school in China? 
Nowadays, parents are busy with work. So, more and more people choose to send their children to boarding school in China. I was one of the children. Boarding school is a school where students study and live on. Compare to regular day school, boarding school only go home once a week. And also teacher stay in school with students too. Boarding school and regular day school are two very popular choices for parents and students in China. But there are so many difference between boarding school and regular day school. Sometimes people have hard time to choose which kind of school should they go to. However, in my opinion students should go to boarding school rather than do to normal day school. Boarding school has better academic performance; makes students be more independent and also give parents more free time to take care of the family. 
First of all, Association of Boarding School claims that the rate of students get college offer of boarding school is 78% for normal private day school is 36% and for public school is 23%. Association of Boarding School, 2016. As you can see from the statistics boarding school has the highest rate of getting college offer. Which means there is no doubt boarding school has better educations than any kind of day school. As we can see from the statistics students will definitely receive better education in boarding school. But why? Because in boarding school students can ask teacher any questions at any time because teacher would be there all the time but if it's in normal day school when students starting learn something hard parents don't know how to do it they are helpless. However, boarding school gives students enough time to finish homework and also there is teacher with them to answer questions and make sure they don't have any more questions about that day's class. 
Second, especially in China, boarding school makes students become more independent than students in their age. the article of Wall Street Journal 2016 points out "the boarding experience will better equip them to cope with an increasingly competitive society. It is the flip side of the "little emperor" phenomenon that grew out of China's one-child policy. Instead of being waited on by doting parents and grandparents, many children now spend their weekdays living at school, learning to be independent and to get along with others." Saywell, 2004. My English teacher also gave me the similar answer she said her daughter is only six years old but she can do so many things by herself now. Moreover, even her daughter is the only child in her family but she is not selfish at all because she had so many friends in school they have to learn how to share. Beside the benefit for students themselves, there is one more benefit for students' family. 
Third, boarding school provide a perfect time schedule for those parents who were always busy and do not have time to give kids a ride to school to pick up their kids from school every day. According to the article from both BBC.com 2013 and Wall Street Journal 2004 the reason why parents choose to send their children to boarding school is because parents don't have much time her parent both work Monday through Fridays they have very limited energy and time to take care of their kid after they done with their work. Also I interviewed my English teacher in China she said that "I think it's because my husband and I are too busy. After been working whole day we are tired and we do not have time to take care of my kid." Z, Janet, personal communication, March 21, 2016 Students go to boarding school in China not only can make themselves better but also it can allow the family have flexiable schedule. 
Even though I claimed that there are so many benefit for students to go to boarding school in China. But there are always two sides to everything. Thus, I also been noticed that some people think go to boarding school is not good for students because it makes students far away from home and cause some family issues, such as not close to their parents. But I think boarding school will make the relationship between parents and child closer the reason why is because when I was in boarding school I do not see my parents very often, so every time when I back home I will tell them everything happened in the past week, and I felt really close to them because I know I only have such short time to stay with them. Therefore, I would be more treasure the time we spend together. Image that If I go home every single day I may feel tired of my parents as every other kids would do in their age. Because kids think they have plenty time to spend and stay with their parents, they will not treasure the time they could spend with their parents. And also the same thing for parents, if we have not seen each other for a long time once we could spend time with them, they will be nicer than they normally do. If we saw each other every day we will feel annoy of each other. So the long distance can also keep the family together and even more. 
Over all I went to boarding school since kindergarten and all the way through middle school. I never experienced normal day school life until I came to America for high school. So I did experience both school life style. After comparing two different kind of school life I still think students should go to boarding school for their student career not only because boarding school's academic part is better but also boarding school can help those parents who does not have time for their children. 
Reference 
Association of Boarding School. 2016. THE BIG PICTURE ON BOARDING SCHOOLS. Retrieved form: http://www.boardingschools.com/discover/bigpicture.aspx 
Morris, M. 2013, November 5. Why children as young as three are sent to boarding school in China. BBC news. Retrieved form: http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-24624427 
Saywell, T. 2004, Apr 21. Chinese use of boarding schools rises. Wall Street Journal Retrieved from: http://search.proquest.com/docview/398862745? accounted=13360 
