Do church help international students: Argumentative essay 
The migration of students from one country to another for educational purposes is a phenomenon that has a long history. Although the population of international students has grown dramatically with over 2500 institutions enrolling almost 300000 students, the difficulties faced by international students in the United States have not changed drastically since the days of Kwame Nkrumah in 1930. (Ranjani, 1998) How international students feel in a place which thousand miles from their home countries? How they adapt to a different culture? How they get along with people with different values and speak different languages? Researches around these problems increase gradually. Some previous studies showed that church work help international students fit into American society. Do church really help international students? How they help international students? With much speculation, this topic has become a very attractive argument. In my opinion, church works help international students get into American society in multiple ways. 
It's generally acknowledged that international students tend to experience a variety of adjustment concerns when matriculating at universities in the United States. Selvadural suggestes the common barriers international students confront included: academic problems such as adjusting to second languages or new educational systems; personal issues such as homesickness and geographic distance from familiar others; and cross-cultural problems such as understanding and adjusting to new social norms. International students expose themselves in a free and liberal culture with emphasis on independence, which is quiet different from their cultures with close family ties and distinct patterns of religious beliefs. However, churches are recognized as a wholesome atmosphere for both international and native students. Selvadual propose that international students will have a positive academic and personal experience if they enjoy a satisfying contact with religious community. Besides, the church concept offers possibilities of a mutually rewarding relationship between the American society and the international students, giving them the opportunity to learn from one another, and build a mutual understanding relationship gradually. On the top of this, churches establish strong services to international students, accomplished through campus friendship programs, international student clubs and social events with members of the community. 
In the article, "How do religious differ in their impact on individuals' social capital", author Jeong O. Jeong states, "Being a membership in a religious community significantly increase an individual's social capital". The simple statement demonstrates that religious communities are one of the most important sources of social capital. Churches provide an important incubator for civil skills, civil norms, community interests, and civic recruitment by helping people learn to give speeches, run meetings, manage responsibilities and beer disagreements. Their members befriend others who often join the community and engage in various forms of community activity. They help to create social capital also by motivating members to take part in charitable and voluntary activities. Finally, churches' religious ideals lead their members to believe that they are driven by divine force, which encourage them to make enormous sacrifices. Thus, belonging to a religious community can meaningfully increase an individual's social capital. 
On the other side of the story, some scholars note that the relationship between religious community and happiness is not very tight. Lewis, as a professor in University of Ulster, implies there is no significant link between a greater frequency of church attendance and happiness. Although it is no doubt true that international students' general attitudes toward their new life are influenced by a wide variety of sources, the investigation results suggest that it is the messages received from their parents and peers are highly correlated with the attitudes, instead of church works. For example, if one live in a friend circle that lose interest in church community, or his parents conflict with religious, he is unable to feel happy even though he goes to church work every single day. According to him, one possible explanation for the lack of significant effects for the perceived attitude of the church is the failure to consider the subjects' devoutness. It is possible that for some highly devout subjects the church has been a major source of impact. 
I did however interviewed an administrator who works in church for nearly 6 years, and perceives church as a way to help her smooth the transition from Eastern to Western life. From her perspective, churches help her basically on two levels, the life and spiritual level. As for the life level, they provided information on shopping, making friends, cooking and accommodation via weekly lecture. Her life becomes more convenient under the instruction. And on the spiritual level, churches provide her guidance, build up her positive attitudes towards life, and lead her to learning about how theists' minds work in order that she can form her own values and be mature. Churches bring her a real American society, where insist equality, freedom and multiple values. Churches give her a huge sense of satisfaction, security, belonging, and accomplishment. 
