P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 25, 2015 
Apply for a graduate school--a legitimate pursuit 
Pursuing a graduate education is more and more popular. Through graduate study, people can obtain a greater earning power, more variable position choices, and a sustainable career development. In career success, seeking a graduate degree is controllable and accessible, compared to starting a career in the risky job market where the employers decide a promotion. Certainly, while there are some drawbacks to leaving the job market, people should attend graduate school as it's the most effective way to advance a career. 
Many seniors think they have already got some internships and offers and needn't attend graduate school. Nevertheless, a graduate degree strengthens people to achieve desired career goal with a higher entry position and multiple career path directions. As Walker pointed out in "Grad School - Now or Later?", a master degree can "set people up in a better position socially, financially, and academically" (p. B5). Compared with undergraduates, graduate students can do more advanced and irreplaceable tasks, such as research and development, technical control, and system modification. For HTM students, an entry for graduates can be a manager assistant, while that for undergraduates is receptionist. Furthermore, obtaining a master degree can open up a wider array of career positions. For example, financial people usually combine Finance with a master degree in another major, like Math, Computer Science, and Accounting. A Master degree in Accounting may lead to an advanced career from banking to investing and consulting positions, while a Master degree in Computer Science helps a transition to get a job in IT companies. Besides, in some disciplines, having a graduate degree is a necessity for getting a "career" job. Some government position and senior executives won't allow people without a graduate degree to enter. 
Even if they find a good job, many people still go back for graduate school few years later. After more than ten years' striving in the job market, people might hesitate to go back for graduate study on account of their families and jobs. They have children and current stable incomes. However, it's common that people get into a bottleneck that restricts their performance to maintain the current position or get further promotion in the workplace. Once it happens, many people still choose to go back to school which provides a system to help organize one's experience and guide practice. During graduate-level study, people could relate advanced theory with their work experience. For example, MBA programs usually have plenty of examples of business practices. Having a discussion with other business experts (professors and classmates), these students who have work experience could share and better analyze previous business behaviors. As Tucker stated, "You'll be connecting with like-minded people within a professional context in order to collaborate, discuss and further your own knowledge, skills and professional circle." Attending graduate school is helpful to make better connections, increase knowledge and do even better after back into the job market. 
Some people also regard graduate school as a waste of money. Of course, people need to somehow move themselves from the job market to pursue a master degree. In this several years, graduates seem to have a tough time. However, to only consider the debt caused by graduate school is shortsighted. If people benefit in the future, the investment of graduate school will usually be counted as positive. When comparing income, people should have to look at someone's entire career and calculate the sum. Looking at the first few years and starting salary doesn't seem very reflective of the long run benefits. In addition to a possible higher salary in the future, graduates have a larger chance than undergraduates to get financial support in school, such as applying for scholarships and financial aids, assisting research, and getting paid as TAs. 
In my opinion, if people have a good goal in mind, applying for graduate school after undergraduate study is a right decision as it benefits people professionally. Furthermore, in the highly competitive job market, there is no doubt that people who go back to school can pursue a better possible position. By weighing the benefits and costs, pursuing advanced education is a long term investment with high yields. With a graduate degree, advancing one's career and education is not far away. 
