Food Social Safety Nets: a good way of solving food security problems 
In developing countries 
Claim/Argument: in order to build and improve a food social safety nets, developing countries' governments need to pay a lot of money and attentions. They have to request money and food aid from international organizations even UN because of the national money lacking. However, a completed food social safety net can really solve food security problems in developing countries. 
I. People in developing countries get benefits from food social safety nets. 
a. Poor people can get enough food with the help the money from food social safety nets 
b. People can get healthier food. 
c. The price of food can be controlled and can avoid the ridiculous food price rising. 
II. Some people think that the food social safety nets are not useful. 
a. Because of the serious corruption situation in developing counties, money for food social safety nets cannot totally used for solving food security problems for people. 
b. After so many years running food social safety nets, the food security problems in developing countries did not change apparently. 
c. Without making good plans and rules for food social safety nets by considering the current situation, even those developing countries can get a lot of supports from international organizations, the food security condition still cannot change. 
III. Building food social safety nets can make multiple benefits to developing countries. 
a. With the social safety nets, the aids and food donates can be well organized and effectively distribute. 
b. Building connections between social safety nets (developing countries) and international organizations (like UN) can let organizations know the food insecurity situations in those developing countries better, then organizations can help with more specific targets in order to solve the different food problems in different developing countries. 
c. Solving food problems are not only the responsibility for governments but also what citizens should pay attention. Food social safety nets are the backup insurance for people, which can also encourage people trying their best to solve food problems. 
IV. The points said food safety nets are not useful didn't make sense. 
a. The corruption problems are big problems in developing countries and it really make food social safety nets lost a lot of money. However, there are still a lot of money can be used to solve food insecurity problems. 
b. Food insecurity problems are not some problems which can be easily solved, it always combined with human civilizations, especially poor developing countries. A very small progress in food security is a huge success for the food social safety nets. 
c. Different countries have different situation for food insecurity problems, making plans and rules are definitely not an easy work to do. Governments need to considering history food insecurity problems and and current condition. Only with a lot of experiments, even failures, the good plan for the food social safety nets can be found. 
V. Examples shows that food social safety nets are good way of solving food security problems in developing countries. 
a. In Mongolia, government use 9 million US dollars to design and start the food stamp program, and another 3 million US dollars were used to improve the program. With these money, at least 100 thousand poor families can get healthier and nutritious food. 
b. The world bank approved a 13 million US dollars' program in order to help the food and agriculture safety net in Cambodia(Mohamad). 
c. China used billions of dollars for building the food social safety nets, and works well. 
Citation: 
"CAMBODIA'S POOREST TARGET OF NEW FOOD SECURITY, SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROGRAM." US Fed News Service, Including US State News Jul 10 2009 Pro Quest. 1 Nov. 2015 . 
"Food stamp program to bring relief to Mongolia." Philippines News Agency 11 Dec. 2008. Global Reference on the Environment, Energy, and Natural Resources. Web. 31 Oct. 2015. 
Staatz John M, Boughton Duncan and Donovan Cynthia "Food Security in Developing Countries" Ag Econ Search: Research in Agricultural and Applied Economics, Apr. 2009. Web. 16 Sept. 2015. 
CHENG 2 
