Does physical activities affect academia positively? 
Nowadays, Sports seem as an indivisible part in daily life. It is well known that it provides huge amount of benefits to human being. However, some people argue that doing physical activities such as sports will weaken academic performance. They think the time commitment is difficult to achieve for the sport player at school, because they have to spend several hours in practice, team meeting, traveling to compete, which takes a lot of time away from studies. For instance, parents in China always dissent from their children participating in sports during school, especially before the exams. They are certain that sports will decrease their children's grades. This belief prevents my friend from participating in sports and makes him feel frustrated. In my opinion, I believe physical activities have positive effects on academic performance, so I did some online research and collected some data from interviewing a sports expert. The results show that physical activities do boost students' academic performance. 
Physical activities mean any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles that requires energy expenditure. It can be defined in two parts, regular moderate intensity physical activity and vigorous intensity physical activity. Moderate intensity physical activities include walking, cycling, or participating in sports. Vigorous physical activities have a higher activity level than moderate. Adequate level of physical activities can reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and coronary heart disease and breast cancer, and it can improve bone and functional health and keep weight control. (World Health Organization, 2014) 
Moreover, physical activities can affect brain function. According to an article name physical exercise for brain health, "It increases heart rate, which pumps more oxygen to the brain. It also aids the bodily release of a plethora of hormones, all of which participate in aiding and providing a nourishing environment for the growth of brain cells." (brain HQ, 2014) Moreover, a study from the Department of Exercise Science at the University of Georgia indicates that exercise for twenty minutes can promote information processing and memory function. (brain HQ, 2014) In addition, sports can promote brain cell repair, improve memory, lengthen attention span, strengthen decision-making skills, and improve multi-tasking and planning. (Rachel J., 2014) As you can see the brain benefits of physical activities, they also can be related to academic performance. For example, lengthen attention span can help us be more concentrated in class, good memory can help us absorb knowledge better and multi-tasking can help with time management in study. Overall, the brain benefits of physical activities could boost academic performance. 
To support my opinion, I found out three research results related to the academic performance and physical activities. According the research on children's intelligence, cognition and academic achievement and based on the structure of the human brain, it shows that physical exercise can make people become smarter, because the regular aerobic activity leads to changes in brain associated with improved cognition. More biologically, Fisk, J said that, " physical activity also floods the body with certain mood-enhancing chemicals that might make learning more enjoyable. Exercise can also improve your child's self-image and might help mitigate the effects of social and academic stress." (Fisk, J, 2014). 
Secondly, an article published by University of Miami indicated that sports have positive effect on students in 1998. According to the preliminary result of an ongoing national study, it found that middle and high school students who participate in sports are more likely to graduate from high school than the students who don't like playing sports. Based on this phenomenon, Jomills Braddock, director of university of Miami Sports analyzed the benefits of participating in sports, he said, "Sports require teamwork in the pursuit of mutual goals to achieve success. With sports, young people learn to recognize and value the unique and important contributions of their diverse teammates." Moreover, he also used his students as an example. He collected the data about students taking AP (Advanced Placement) courses and personal study plans. And he found out that African American student athletes are more likely plan to attend colleges, take AP courses and enrolled in college prep program than the non student-athletes. This result reinforces that participating in sports can boost academic performance. At last, Braddock (1998) concluded that participating in sports could enhance student's academic aspiration, investments and achievements. 
Lastly, another article written by Thomas Cornelissen and Christian Pfeifer analyses the impact of participation in sports during childhood and adolescence on educational attainment. According to Thomas Corneliben, leisure activities can have positive effects on educational productivity. For instance, healthier athletes could increase the productivity and invest more to human capital as they can live longer. Secondly, sports can help ones to learn leadership, teamwork, and socialization and become well organized and perform better in academia. Last but not least, "sport can help to form the character of young people because it teaches behavioral habits like motivation, discipline, tenacity, competitive spirit, responsibility, perseverance, confidence, and self-esteem, which cannot always be acquired in classroom." (Thomas Corneliben, 2007, page 4). In brief, all of these positive effects of sports induce that one perform better in academia. 
Besides, according to my interviewee, Tricia Tort, the associated director of the fitness center. She studied kinesiology and health exercises classes for undergraduate, and then she went to graduate school for health administration. She oversees the entire fitness program such as group exercises classes, personal training. Tricia said exercise help with the sleep pattern that can help students perform better in academic. Furthermore, she suggested the regular exercise should be 30 to 60 minutes on four or five days a week. And she indicated that students who usually come to Co Rec have higher grades and they earn more academic credits than those who don't come here often. This data also supports that physical activities improve academic performance. 
In conclusion, the online research and the interview that I have done strongly proves my statement that physical activities can boost academic performance. I think this result will be a perfect direction for the university students, because students can earn better grades with less stress. Although this project helps me understand the connection between physical activities and academic performance better, I still need to do more research and experiments to prove it. 
