Comparison between computer vision and manual measurement on plant morphology 
Purdue University 
Introduction 
Plant morphology measurement is a technique in agriculture aiming at measuring some morphology data of a plant such as its height, width, surface area of leaves and so on. It is necessary because it could provide the crucial characteristics data for field work and could work as an indicator for optimizing the crop cultivation. The acquisition of crop morphology data works as the eyes of agricultural system. With the help of these data, an agricultural system could reach higher crop yield1 and lower uncertainty under precision agriculture management (Gebbers & Adamchuk, 2010). 
Manual measurement is the most widely-used approach to retrieve the plant morphology data in current agricultural system. In the last few years, with the boosting trend of automation and elevating human resource expenditure, an alternation of crop measurement based on computer vision is proposed. Computer vision is a technique that take advantage of computer to realize an automatic procedure for acquiring, processing, and analyzing image data. With the utilization of computer vision, the plant morphology measurement process could produce more informative data with higher efficiency and no blunders error. 
However, computer vision system on morphology measurement is being queried because of some of its built-in drawbacks. Three major disadvantages of computer vision system are being critiqued most intensely. First, the original data provided to computer vision system to process is 2D data (images) but manual measurements could directly work on 3D objects, the reduction of the raw information could lead to the inaccuracy of the result. Second, computer vision system requires some optical devices such as cameras and projector to capture the data while these devices are generally more delicate and vulnerable than some mechanical and electrical devices. According to Mitutoyo (2016) and Imaging Source (2016) product manual, the working temperature range of camera (critical optical device for computer vision) is about half of the caliper's (a typical mechanical device for dimension measurement). Additionally, the initial cost of computer vision device for setup is much higher than a manual system which requires less on hardware (Li, 2016). 
With known advantages and disadvantages, the answer of whether computer vision system could work as a promising substitution of current manual system requires a comprehensive comparison. This article aims at synthetically analyze the most controversial topics of these two systems to prove that the computer vision system is not only more reliable with current technology but also has overwhelmingly higher potential and lower cost in the long run than manual system. 
Fidelity 
For a measurement system, one of the most important thing to be consider is the fidelity of the data. Only with enough accuracy to fulfill the accuracy requirement of a utilization can a system to be adopted to the specific application. In fact, with the speedy development 3D measurement technique, computer vision system could not only avoid the blunder caused by human error but also could produce a result as accurate as current manual measurement. 
When computer vision system is first proposed to be used in onsite measurement, many people doubted whether the techniques and devices used in computer vision could handle such complex scenario in agricultural field. However, multiple techniques have been built for measuring objects in different scales and could successfully reach a descent precision. For a large object (in the scale of 1m to 10m) such as tree and arbor, the stereo vision system could result in a precision of 0.5mm (Aguilar, Torre, & Lope, 1996). In comparison, the laser tape adopted in manual measurement could generally have an error about 1.5mm. For medium scale objects (from 0.1m to 1m) such as rice, the utilization of structure light system could provide data with precision of 0. 1 mm (Li & Zhang, Structured light system calibration method with optimal fringe angle, 2014). This is the same as the precision of Vernier caliper, which is widely used in precise manual measurement. Moreover, for smaller scale objects such as mushroom (0.01m to 0.1m), the tele-centric structure light system could reach a precision of 0. 01 mm, which is higher than screw-thread micrometer with a precision of 0.05mm (Li & Zhang, 2015). 
Table 1 Comparison between system precision 
Scale (m) 
Example 
Computer vision Precision (mm) 
Manual system precision (mm) 
Precision Requirement (mm) 
(1,10) 
Tree 
0. 5 
1. 5 
5 
(0.1,1) 
Rice 
0. 1 
0. 1 
0. 5 
(0.01,0.1) 
Mushroom 
0. 01 
0. 05 
0. 1 
Table 1 summarizes the precision of computer vision system and manual measurement and compare them with the typical precision requirement for morphology measurement the handbook for plant morphology standardized measurement (P rez-Harguindeguy, et al., 2013). These above comparisons show that the computer vision device could even reach a higher built-in precision than current manual measurement. And both of them could fulfill the precision requirements for plants in different scale. Therefore, with proper algorithm support the computer vision devices, computer vision method could definitely achieve enough fidelity. 
The algorithm for retrieving characteristic data from plant is another aspect on which computer vision researcher have made numerous breakthroughs recently. Moreover, thanks to the booming of the computer processing speed, a real time surveillance of the plant morphology measurement could even become possible (Izadi, et al., 2011). For instance, Story & Kacira (2015) have successfully build an system that combining color camera, near-infrared camera and thermal camera to capture the information of lettuce. Their system could not only accurately monitor the morphology characteristics of the plant but also record the healthy status of it. This system could not only provide the information as accurate as the manual measurement, but also keep measurement consistently. The continuous measuring of computer vision system works as a self-verifying procedure, so it could make the result more reliable than the periodical manual measurement. 
Reliability 
For industrial utilization, the reliability of a system is very important because it need to be used for a long term and frequent renew and maintenance is not acceptable. In other word, it is important to verify whether the computer vision system could function normally during its life cycle. 
As a matter of fact, both the optical devices for capturing data and the computer for processing data have a special production line for onsite use (some even have products for agricultural use). These devices have been commercially sale and proved to be able to keep functioning in its life cycle (about 3-5 years) even under the moist and hot environment (Li, 2016). Consequently, the reliability of computer vision system could be as good as the human resource. Moreover, it could even help to get rid of some factors that influencing the human's reliability such as strikes or motion fluctuation. 
Feasibility 
Even though computer vision system could produce more reliable result during its life cycle, it is a common concern that the high setup cost could make a computer vision system not feasible for most farmers. However, although the computer vision system means a higher initial cost, it could significantly reduce the expenditure in the long run. Additionally, some current techniques could further reduce the cost. 
Many farmers refuse to purchase a computer vision measurement system because the setup cost seems prohibitive when comparing with a manual system. For a computer vision system, a typical setup fees may include the cost of the hardware such as the optical devices (projectors and cameras), computers for data analysis, vehicle or mechanical rail to move the cameras, but also the software to analyze the acquired data. In contrast, simply hiring some technician and purchasing some cheap non-intelligent equipment seems to be more alluring. 
However, this comparison is completely different when considering it in the long run. We could take 3 years, a typical life span of a computer vision hardware for example and do not consider the other advantages of computer vision system such as its high accuracy. According to Li (2016), the typical expenditure for the optical devices could be about $1,500. Additionally, a computer ($1,000) with common speed is enough for processing the image data. For the software, one year of commercial software subscription will cost about $80,000 (for a specific species measurement that has already developed). In comparison, the typical wage for farmer (in Iowa for example) is approximately $12. 4 / hour (Edwards & Johanns, 2011). Table 2 summarizes the comparison between these two systems in a mid-volume farm with 5 people needed for plant measurement. Supposedly one computer vision system and one worker share the same speed of measuring, so the setup fees is calculated as 5 devices. Software subscription fee is based on 3-year span. 
Table 2 Comparison between cost of two systems 
Computer Vision system 
Manual system 
Item 
quantity 
Cost 
Item 
number 
Cost 
Optical device 
5 sets 
$7,500 
Hour wage 
31,200 hours 
$386,880 
Computer 
5 sets 
$5,000 
Software subscription 
3 years 
$240,000 
Total 
$252,500 
$386,880 
As shown clearly in table 2, in the time span as short as 3 years, the computer vision system could save about 35% of cost. This result even has neglected the higher efficiency of computer because of its non-stop working. Additionally, if the volume of the farm is larger, the split of software cost for more measurement devices could further enlarge the advantages of computer vision measurement. 
Moreover, according to Li (2016), there are some lower cost system for computer vision measurement such as the Microsoft Kinect if very high precision is not required. As for the high expenditure of software, with the further development of this technology, this price will continuously decrease until a common commercial measurement software price (about $10,000 per year). 
Conclusion 
To sum up, computer vision system is a more favorable choice for plant morphology measurement rather than manual measurement especially for large-volume farm. It could produce more reliable result with a lower cost in the long run. Moreover, these advantages will be more significant with boost of this technique in this several years. 
