ENGL106i 
11/20/15 
Whether to accept Traditional Chinese Medicine or not? 
In the current society, more and more people pay much more attention on their health-care with the development of living condition. Traditional Chinese Medicine TCM, which has long history and obvious effect on treating diseases, draws public attention. There do exist some people who do not trust TCM regarding it as a heresy. However, more and more evidences come to show that TCM has great advantages in treating diseases thus improve the living quality of people. 
First of all, TCM shows great advantages in treating chronic diseases. Chronic diseases, which are long-lasting and not easy to be treated, are regarded as hard nuts in the perspective of Western Medicine WM which pursues the efficiency. WM shows limited ability to control symptoms also cannot treat the diseases. In this situation, patients are not easy during the outbreak of diseases. Therefore, patients try to find other way to treat their diseases. In this case, TCM, treating disease from the origin of it, draws more and more attention of interests of people. Take me as a example, I was suffering in allergy every autumns and springs, including allergic conjunctivitis allergic rhinitis and allergic pharyngitis, which brought me many inconveniences and even seriously bothered my everyday life. After taking WM, I could feel little effects and the autumn times was kind of nightmare for me. However, after realizing that my diseases are not just surficial reason, I took some herbal medicine which helps the regulation of spleen, which is the origin of my allergy, I felt much better and was shocked by the effects. 
Apart from the ability in treating diseases which are caused by the disorder of organs in the TCM theory, TCM also shows magic effects in releasing pain. With the development of technology and the intense competition, more and more people spend most of their time facing to the computer ignoring exercises. As a result, some diseases, such as neck pain and low back pain, become prevailing. In this case, more and more patients, who are suffering such kinds of diseases, visit doctor to release their pain. However, what western medicine doctor can do is to use pills to release pain without treating it. Therefore, the patients who feel not satisfied with the effect that WM shows begin to find new methods to release their pain. In this situation, TCM, which treating disease from the origin of it, draws more interests of people. There are several methods in TCM that show obvious effects, such as acupuncture, acupressure, cupping. From the practice of these treatment, the patients make positive feedback of it and express they even feel relaxed after treatment. 
In addition to releasing pain, TCM also shows extremely effect in controlling and treating cancer, which is the second leading of death. Nowadays, the popular to treat cancer in WM is to have operation to cut the tumor and then use chemotherapy and radiotherapy, which is harmful to all cells thus cause severe side affects to patients. However, TMC, normally uses herbal medicine to treat tumor, shows advantages and power in treating tumor. In the perspective of TCM, different tumors are the product of the stock of the circulation of channels of specific organ. Developing the function of the organ can help control the growth of tumor and even reduce the size of tumor until disappear. The recent study of herbs shows that some chemical components that are found in herbal medicine are discovered have the ability to prevent the formation of cancer. In that case, analysis the medicine that TCM uses to treat cancer provide a bright future of cancer treatment. 
There do exist some people claim that TCM does not show the effect right away thus is not effective. However, it is not true owing to the fact that WM normally just control the symptoms, but TCM treats diseases from the inside of the body which we can obtain long-lasting benefits from it. Apart from the effect, some countries forbid the circulation of Traditional Chinese Medicine claiming that some of the ingredients contain toxin materials so that is unsafe to be taken. However, it is not true to deny the efficiency of TCM completely. What I have to admit is that some ingredients in herbal medicine do contain some toxin components. However, such little dosage is not enough to threaten the health. Comparing to the side affect that chemical medicines make, herbal medicines are much more gentle and acceptable. Additionally, the toxin made by the combination of two particular herbs can be excluded by the professional doctor thus can promise the safety of the medicine. 
In conclusion, from the above discussion we can see that TCM shows many advantages in treating diseases, such as chronic diseases, pains, and even cancer, which bother a group of people living in the present time. Although normally it will not show the effect at once, it can treat diseases from the origin thus lead long-lasting benefits for patients. The harm caused by poisonous components of herbs can be eliminated by controlling the dose and the professionalization of doctors. Further studies need to be provided so that we can combine the advantages of WM and TCM so as to maximize the benefit that TCM brings to us in order to improve the living quality, which is the aim of medicines. 
