After my extensive interview with Doctor <name> , I am now going to further discuss the correlation between smoking and cancer based on three accredited articles among the multitude of articles I have read online. In my synthesis paper I am going to reiterate some of the key facts and figures that have been mentioned in these articles and analyze the message that these articles are trying to convey. 
According to Cancer Research UK, 1 in 4 cancer deaths in the UK are caused by excessive smoking. In the 20th Century alone, 100 million deaths worldwide have been linked to the smoking of cigarettes. This article delves into discussions on how smoking leads to cancer and how long it takes for this cancer to actually manifest within a person's body. Cigarettes contain chemicals that damage human DNA that makes it more prone to attacks from cancer cells and as for the duration it takes for cancer to form in a human body can vary from person to person; sometimes years and in other cases decades. Lung cancer is one of the main causes of chain smoking and every now and then people do get lung cancer even though they've never smoked a single cigarette their whole life but this should not be interpreted as proof to debunk the fact that there is a positive correlation between cigarette smoking and cancer. 
According to the National Cancer Institute, cigarettes contain up to 250 KNOWN harmful substances, 69 of which are KNOWN to cause cancer. This article strengthens my argument of how smoking causes cancer but it also explores the vast array of other diseases that are caused through the act of smoking cigarettes including Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), diabetes, cataracts and even osteoporosis. Smoking can also make it harder for a woman to get pregnant and a woman who smokes during her pregnancy risks the chance of killing her unborn baby and if not, risks the chance of having a premature or abnormal baby. Men that smoke a lot risk a higher chance of developing erectile dysfunction at an early age. The article also briefly touches upon the immediate benefits of quitting cigarette smoking, some of which include normal heart rate and blood pressure, reduced carbon monoxide levels in the blood allowing them to breathe easier as well as reducing how much a person coughs or wheezes. 
According to the Center for Disease Control and contrary to popular belief, smoking doesn't only cause lung and esophagus cancer but can cause cancer cells to thrive in many body parts such as the cervix, the colon, blood or even major organs such as the kidneys or the liver. This article investigates the link between smoking and cancer, of how smoking can weaken the immune system and also similar to what the first article had stated about how the DNA becomes affected by cigarette smoke and can often cause cells to mutate and grow uncontrollably, forming cancerous tumors. According to the CDC, if everyone stopped smoking, 33.33% of deaths from cancer would have been reduced in the US alone. 
In conclusion 
http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/causes-of-cancer/smoking-and-cancer/how-smoking-causes-cancer 
http://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/tobacco/cessation-fact-sheet 
http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/diseases/cancer.html 
