Argumentative Essay Draft 1 
11/24/15 
	Communication, problem solving and teamwork are the top skills that employers look for in potential professionals. A perfect 4. 0 GPA won't matter without these skills. 
A debatable topic does not come without its doubts. A number of concerns arise when something as important as a student's GPA is 'discredited'. People may argue that certain jobs entail a GPA of 3. 5 or more especially jobs in investment banking (Koeppel, 2006). In fact, according to NACE (2005), roughly 7 out of 10 employers screen their candidates based on GPA though GPA is placed at the lower end of the list of qualifications and skills they seek in future employees. The largest group use a cutoff of 3.0. This leads to the next argument that good grades are an indication of how smart one is and employers look for smart people. Exams are meant to test one's knowledge and one who has mastered all the knowledge will excel at the exam. It is a simple explanation and logical argument. Another argument that can be made is that there are jobs where one does not require communication skills, jobs where one mostly works alone on a computer or in a hostile environment. The question that arises is why would someone in a job like this have the need to develop their communicating skills? The opposing arguments are logical and straightforward and I will address each of these issues in the following paragraphs. 
A perfect GPA is not enough to get you the job. There are other skills like people skills and problem solving skills that are more important because nobody is writing an exam on the job. As mentioned earlier, many people would say certain jobs especially in the field of economics and investment banking look for candidates that have a GPA of 3. 5 or higher. Those particular jobs require a high GPA but they will not recruit only on the basis of that. They still want eloquent communicators and effective problem solvers. A person who scores well on a written exam may not necessarily do well when it comes to real situations unless they have had the right work experience. There is also practically no job out there where one does not interact with other people. While a high GPA is commendable and means the candidate is hardworking and motivated it is not enough to get the job. 
At the workplace, employers essentially want to see results and even 4. 0 GPA cannot save someone if they don't produce the desired outcome. For example, there is a person with a 4. 0 GPA and there is another person with a 3. 5 GPA of only 3. 5 even then he just makes the short list. The second person though is an eloquent communicator and problem solver and possesses all the soft skills the employers are looking for. The answer is simple, companies will recruit the latter because they need to ensure that along with a good GPA this candidate can actually handle the position they are employed in. Imagine if they had employed the former, what would happen? Though there is no doubt the candidate would have known his or her material, the candidate would not have been able to handle a real life problem that he was faced with due to a lack of experience. While GPA does matter, it cannot stand alone. The top skills that companies look for still include communicating, team work and problem solving skills. 
At least two more support paragraphs will follow addressing the other two oppositions. 
First being good grades = smart people and employers want smart 
and the second, solo jobs- communication skills are unnecessary 
