P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
May 1, 2015. 
India's Modernity - A Question. 
According to Angus Maddison, by 1922, the British held over 458 million people, hence bringing modernity to about one-fifth of the world's population during that time. A lot of debates have gone over whether the British rule in India did actually lead to its modernization and this broad question, can be interpreted in many ways and hence have different answers. Modernity is not only limited to infrastructural development. It can be defined as the enlightenment of ideas such as fraternity, liberty and education. The British rule in India passed along these ideas of modernity to India and also brought about various reforms and infrastructural developments, hence being a catalyst in modernizing the country. 
One of the primary questions that I chose to answer was whether the British Raj in India led to the abolishment of 'Sati,' a ritual in India where widows burned themselves on top of their husband's cremation pyres. I have explained how, by aiding in abolishing the practice of 'Sati,' the British liberated and freed the women of a ritual forcefully imposed on them. There are various arguments regarding the extent of British role in doing so. In her book, Contentious Traditions: The Debate on Sati in Colonial India 1987, Lata Mani talks in great detail about the debate regarding the practice of 'Sati'. The people who were in support of Sati, who generally consisted of the Brahmins and Pundits, gave religious reasons for not abolishing Sati. They stated that there were scriptural sanctions for Sati. On the contrary, the anti-supporters of Sati said that the practice was mentioned in a different manner. They were of the belief that the Pundits and the women's family coerced the women to perform Sati for their own material gains. The British then banned Sati in 1829. 
Mani states that it was actually the colonial officials who started the debate by using their own legislation to prove that 'Sati' violates human rights. However, <name> says that British only helped because a section of Indians were also actively campaigning against the removal of Sati and that it was largely because of the initial efforts of Ram Mohan Roy and his group, 'Brahmo Samaj,' that the British used the legislation to prohibit Sati. However, we can also pose an argument to this fact. In their book A Concise History of Modern India: Third Edition 2012, Barbara and Thomas Metcalf have written that Ram Mohan Roy was educated in the western style education, was adept in English and was also the leader of the Brahmo Samaj. So, we can say that he only raised his voice because of his Western style education, which indirectly states that it was the British who were responsible for the abolishment of Sati. 
In their book A Concise History of Modern India: Third Edition 2012, Barbara and Thomas Metcalf have written that with the views of the British emerged a new middle class called the 'Bhadraloks,' who were also called the colonial middle class. They were generally the ones who flourished under the British rule and could be characterized by their western style education and proficiency in English. These people now started getting involved in the print culture and were announced as the coming of a new 'modern' India. They also spoke about Roy being educated in the same manner, which goes on to prove that the British were indeed indirectly responsible for aiding in abolishing Sati. 
In her interview, <name> said that 'Modernity came to India because of the British rule.' Modernization is not only limited to reforms. The British also brought along with them new kinds of transportation and technology, which the Indians were unaware of. They introduced the concept of railways and also introduced new techniques of irrigation in India. Apart from this, they invested heavily in telegraphy, roads and ports as well. For example, the British started the Great Indian Peninsular Railway and East Indian Railway in 1854. 
Even though what the British did was only for their own personal gains of colonization and never for the well being of the Indians, it's time that the British receive their due credit for bringing modernization to India. They brought about modernity in terms of development, in the way the people of India thought and also brought about a degree of education in India by providing a western style education to the people. Overall, there happens to be a strong belief among Indians that the British only robbed them of all their resources. However, with the arguments presented to you within this paper it is clear that even though they did rob India of all its resources, they also left them with a gift - The gift of modernity! 
