Argumentative Essay: Draft 1 
Monday, 11th April 2016 
The Benefits of Music to a Child's Cognitive Development 
Music has played such a large role in our community ever since it was first invented. Music has connected to the subconscious of the human mind, touching and connecting with their emotions. Nonetheless, music can also affect how the human brain thinks and develops. Especially for children, it has been discovered that certain types of music can aid cognitive development. The entirety of my sequenced writing project has been focused on finding out more about whether it is true that music can really aid the cognitive development of children. I have researched several scientific articles and interviewed an expert about developmental psychology to find more information. From my previous papers that summarized the conclusions of the scientific articles and the personal interview, I have concluded that there is definitely a link between music and the cognitive development of children. However, I have also found online articles that deny this. Concerning the "Mozart Effect", which is the effect when one listens to Mozart's music, one may possibly induce a short-term improvement on the performance of certain kinds of mental tasks, some people argue that it is only a myth (170-172). In order to back up my thesis, I will use the results from the data that I have gathered to argue that music really has an effect on cognitive development in children. 
The first point that I want to talk about is how music can affect different aspects of cognitive development. The different aspects of cognitive development have been mentioned in the different research papers that I have found. Firstly, according to this article "Music Training for the Development of Auditory Skills" by Nina Kraus and Bharath Chandrasekaran, it was said that music facilitates auditory fitness. This means that children who are exposed to music has an advantage in differentiating pitch, which can help in learning languages. Secondly, according to my second article "Relations Among Musical Skills, Phonological Processing, and Early Reading Ability in Preschool Children" by Sima H. Anvari, it was mentioned that children who have better music skills equally have better reading skills. Finally, on my third article "Exposure to Music and Cognitive Performance: Tests of Children and Adults" by E. Glenn Schellenberg, it was mentioned that children who listened to Mozart had better test results and creativity. 
For my second point, I would like to talk about is how an expert thinks about my thesis. From my previous paper, I have conducted a personal interview with a friend of mine who is familiar with developmental psychology. I asked a few questions regarding music and cognitive development because I wanted his opinion on my topic. First of all, my interviewee mentioned that there are different aspects of cognitive development that music can influence. This includes a change in speech perception, a structural change in the developing brain, and improvements in auditory skills. My interviewee also mentioned that learning music can benefit children because it can increase the memory capacity of a human brain, since learning musical instruments require the memorization of songs. He also mentioned that learning a musical instrument can be helpful for coordination and mathematical abilities, since reading musical sheets require a little bit of mathematics. Finally, my interviewee mentioned that music can also help children to be able to learn the art of responsibility and commitment, since learning music requires to do so. 
However, I have found several news articles online which stated that music does not actually make people smarter. These articles were linked to one research study by a Harvard Student, Samuel Mehr. He conducted a research that proves that although children who have musical experience had higher IQs, the results were still statistically insignificant (170-172). From an interview excerpt by www.boston.com, I have found a statement by Samuel Mehr, in which he said that "We don't teach our children Shakespeare and Dante and Tolstoy because it makes them do better in American history class or at learning the periodic table of the elements. We teach them those great authors because those great authors are important. There's really no reason to justify music education on any other basis than its intrinsic merits. We have our Dante, Tolstoy, and Shakespeare, and they are Bach, Duke Ellington, and Benjamin Britten.". From Samuel Mehr's statement, he was trying to imply that music is a mere period in people's lives that could not have any effects whatsoever on other fields. He also tried to convey that the purpose of learning something should not have the purpose to increase your intelligence on other fields; People should rather learn something because of its importance. 
Despite the research results from Samuel Mehr, I think that what he has found from his research does not refer to the cognitive development of children. First of all, the key point from his research was to link musical abilities and a child's intelligence. Cognitive development, as defined by Daniel L Schacter, is "a field of study in neuroscience and psychology focusing on a child's development in terms of information processing, conceptual resources, perceptual skill, language learning, and other aspects of brain development". From this definition, cognitive development is something broader than intelligence. This means that what Samuel Mehr's study has suggested does not precisely refer to cognitive development as a whole. Also, when Samuel Mehr said that the purpose of learning something should not have the purpose to increase your intelligence on other fields is quite inaccurate. In my opinion, I think that learning something in order to benefit you on other fields is one of the key reasons why we had to learn so many things at the same time during high school. We would not be able to calculate the molecular mass of a substance without learning how to do simple mathematics. We also would not be able to read our Biology textbook if we did not learn how to read in pre-school. I think that the matter of integrating one subject with another is one of the key purpose in every education system. Regarding with music, although music may not make someone smarter directly, music can aid other parts of cognition which will support and assist them in their academic lives. 
	In conclusion, after finding scientific research results and conducting an interview with an expert about my topic, it has been quite clear that there is certainly a link between music and a child's cognitive development. Despite the counterstatement by Samuel Mehr, I think that the link between music and cognitive development has been proven from the information that I gathered. There are many benefits of music to a child's cognitive development. Therefore, music is definitely excellent for a child's developing brain. 
Cited: 
1) Anvari, Sima H., et al. "Relations among musical skills, phonological processing, and early reading ability in preschool children." Journal of experimental child psychology 83. 2 (2002): 111-130. 
2) Gautama, A., Personal Interview. (Mar, 23, 2016). 
3) Kraus, Nina, and Bharath Chandrasekaran. "Music training for the development of auditory skills." Nature Reviews Neuroscience 11. 8 (2010): 599-605. 
4) Jenkins, John S. "The Mozart effect." Journal of the royal society of medicine94. 4 (2001): 170-172. 
5) Johnson, Carolyn Y. "Music Makes You Smarter. Right? Actually, It Doesn't, Harvard Study Finds." Www.boston.com. 11 Dec. 2013. Web. 10 Apr. 2016. <http://archive.boston.com/news/science/blogs/science-in-mind/2013/12/11/music-makes-you-smarter-right-actually-doesn-harvard-study-finds/zz LCpv WKgl Cxkr Juh Bm1WN/blog.html>. 
6) Mehr, Samuel A., et al. "Two randomized trials provide no consistent evidence for nonmusical cognitive benefits of brief preschool music enrichment." PLo S One 8. 12 (2013): e82007. 
7) Schacter, Daniel L (2009). PSYCHOLOGY. Catherine Woods. p. 429. 
Schellenberg, E. Glenn, et al. "Exposure to music and cognitive performance: Tests of children and adults." Psychology of Music 35. 1 (2007): 5-19. 
5 
