Aristotle's influence on Alexander the Great 
Purdue University 
Introduction 
Although the tutor of Alexander the Great who was first called "great" by the Romans was Aristotle, one of the wisest minds in that times, many scholars such as Frank Lipsius don't believe that Aristotle had a huge impact on Alexander. The three main reasons were: Aristotle didn't teach Alexander for a long time even Aristotle wasn't Alexander's teacher at all; Alexander had many tutors and it seemed that he often doubted Aristotle's opinion in class; the man influenced Alexander a lot was his ancestor Achilles not Aristotle. To get some more information about this relationship, I had an interview with Professor <name> on November 3. Opposite to the ideas of scholars above, he believes that Aristotle influenced Alexander the Great a lot and he thinks that Alexander's great expedition wasn't due to the spirit of heroism he inherited from Achilles and the reason was his curiosity on the East. And his curiosity was from Aristotle. Also, he told me we could found some many materials that can prove that Aristotle was the teacher of Alexander and they contacted with each other by letters until the death of Callisthenes. Personally, I support Professor <name> idea and following paper will focus on three points which are given by the scholars who thought Aristotle's influence on Alexander was little. 
Aristotle didn't teach Alexander for a long time even Aristotle wasn't Alexander's teacher at all. 
According to Jaeger, the thought that one of the foremost philosophers of all time taught one of the greatest conquerors of all time have struck some later antique historians when studying this relationship. Aristotle's connection to the Macedonian court was established already by his father Nicomachus, as a physician for Alexander's grandfather. (Aristotle Biography 7: Alexander the Great, 2006, paragraph 19) So it was very difficult for him to get touch with the Macedonian nobility. 
If Aristotle did not come this close to the Macedonian rulers, it would be hard to understand why he would need to flee Athens after the death of Alexander, in 323, fearing for his life in the vindictive Athenian currents, threatening to unleash when the mighty king was gone. (Aristotle Biography 7: Alexander the Great, 2006, paragraph 22). Hardly can we imagine that if Aristotle had little link to the Macedonian rulers since his enemies had much more power than him. Also, Aristotle had married a close relative to the king Hermias and this fact could show Aristotle was well accepted by the circle of nobility. 
Surely, Aristotle taught Alexander for only three years but they exchange ideas by letters in a long time. Professor <name> said: "It was very difficult for us to distinguish the letters written by others and the letters by Alexander himself. But the fact was that Alexander really wrote a lot of letters to Aristotle and Aristotle often replied to Alexander. So we trust that Aristotle influenced Alexander by letters more than his short tutorship." ( personal communication, November 3, 2015) 
In addition, Professor <name> suggested that although the relationship was end until the death of Aristotle's nephew, Alexander still wrote letters to Aristotle's school and Alexander built a school like Stagira, which was destroyed later in the war. These facts could prove that Alexander loved and cherished Aristotle since Alexander gained different kinds of knowledge from Aristotle. 
Alexander had many tutors and it seemed that he often doubted Aristotle's opinion in class. 
Grayeff argues that Plutarch, the main source to Aristotle being the tutor of Alexander, in another section of his Parallel Lives names several teachers of Alexander. (Aristotle Biography 7: Alexander the Great, 2006, paragraph 20) And it seemed that Alexander often had more different ideas in Aristotle's class than in other tutors' classes. Alexander often had a conflict with Aristotle in many aspects of science and literature. Aristotle's influence on Alexander was little because the young Alexander had his own thoughts and didn't accept Aristotle's opinion. (Frank Lipsius, 1974, Alexander the Great) 
Professor <name> also had an opposite opinion. He said: "The reason that Alexander often doubted the ideas of Aristotle was the teaching way of Aristotle. Aristotle's teaching way was very different from Alexander's other tutors because he liked to take his students to the nature to find answers and to challenge his opinions he gave at first. And then Aristotle would led his students to the right direction. Aristotle's teaching way was inherited from his teacher Plato, another foremost philosopher of all time." ( personal communication, November 3, 2015) 
Although Alexander had many tutors, we believe that Aristotle was the teacher who influenced Alexander the most. It was Aristotle who fostered Alexander's interest in medicine and literature. He often treated his friends during his expedition since he was really good at medicine. And most of his knowledge in science was from Aristotle. Also, Aristotle let Alexander read Homer's Epic since he found that the young Alexander's dream was becoming a hero like his ancestor Achilles and he always slept with his dagger under the pillow. (Spark Notes Editors, 2005) From this case we can find that although Alexander's heroic character was given by the God but in the process he became the real hero of Greece, the idol of Caesar, Aristotle played a very important role. 
The man influenced Alexander a lot was his ancestor Achilles not Aristotle. 
One of Alexander's favorite subjects was Greek poetry. He held a huge interest in the epic which was written by Homer, and he even want to become the mythical Achilles in the fact just like Napoleon wanted to be Alexander. (Spark Notes Editors, 2005) And he did the same which Achilles did in Iliad, which was beating the enemies coming from the East. It seemed that Alexander went beyond his ancestor since he also conquered Egypt and India. Many scholars supposed that Alexander's expedition was due to his dream which was becoming Achilles, so they thought Achilles influenced Alexander the most. 
However, Professor <name> pointed out the fact that can prove the difference between Alexander and Achilles was Alexander always took the geographers and botanists during his expedition. Achilles would only took his sword during the war but Alexander didn't. It seemed that Alexander inherited the scientific character from Aristotle. Professor <name> said: "Different from other expeditions which had many political reasons, Alexander's expedition was due to his personal curiosity to the East. He saw the good from the East but he didn't know what the world was like on the other side of the world. So he wanted to explore the secrets of the world and he wanted to go to the East. But the army of the East refused and the war happened. Without doubt, his curiosity was fostered by Aristotle. Another fact could prove the great impact which Aristotle had on Alexander was geography. Alexander was good at geography so he had an idea that the earth was not a plane as the public supposed in that times. He wanted to prove his idea and the only way was also go to the East. Surely, Alexander's knowledge of geography was from Aristotle." ( personal communication, November 3, 2015) 
In conclusion, Aristotle played a very important role in Alexander and gave Alexander a much wider view to this world. If Aristotle wasn't Alexander's teacher, Alexander might also become a wise leader and a great commander but his stories wouldn't be so legendary that there was eulogized by many great men from different times. 
