P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 14, 2015 
Drinking Age 
	Unlike United States, Korea's drinking age is 18; therefore, many people start drinking at young age. Since many people can experience drinking culture at young age, there are some bad sides such as alcohol related incidents. Every year similar incident happens; college freshman died because he or she drank too much alcohol because upper classmates forced. Since this incident happens every year when the school starts, many people suggested government to change the legal drinking age. However, the drinking age should be remained the same because it will bring chaos if the government take away the rights. 
	Since it is taking away people's privilege or rights, people will oppose it and refuse to follow the law. Even though the legal drinking age is 18, many younger people are trying to get alcohol illegally; therefore, many people would not follow that law. Also, many college freshmen who just graduated high school drink the most because they are just released from hard studying and the stresses. Most high school graduate students release their stress by doing what they could not do during the high school year. Also, drinking is a big part of college life; in the beginning of the school year, many college students (especially freshmen) go to Membership Training or Orientation Training for two days, during that days they drink and play games. If the government rises the drinking age, many people will have opposed feelings toward the government. 
	Even though it will be convenient to remain the drinking age the same, the drinking problems are becoming serious and getting bigger, so many people are raising their voice to make the drinking age higher. Nowadays people are concerning the college drinking culture because many drinking incidents are happening to college students. However, making the drinking age higher would not solve the alcohol related problems because even in United States, there are many underage drinking problems. Also, serious drinking related problems happen during the beginning of the school year the most. Therefore, it would not help to prevent the incidents. 
	In conclusion, Korea should not change the legal drinking age; rather than changing the drinking age, they should come up with new remedy to prevent the drinking related problems. If the government takes away the people's rights and privilege, the citizens will have opposed feelings toward the government. Also, lower drinking age will allow people to experience the drinking culture at the younger age and it will help them to get use to the drinking culture when they start working. Since drinking is a big part of Korean culture, it is hard to make the drinking age higher. Also, the serious drinking related problems happen only during the beginning of the school year. 
THE ARGUMENTATIVE ESSAY 	 2 
