Wearable computers: useful tools for future education 
Today, it is not difficult for us to see students using computers and laptops to study no matter in school or out of school. Have you ever consider using a tiny wearable computer to help you study? Wearable computers are one of the most exciting devices in the modern world which comes closer to us these years. Based on what I have learned, I am confident that wearable computers will become useful tools for education because it can not only enhance learning but can also been used to teach and learn lots of subjects. 
Students are more likely to accept new technology than any other age groups. At present, we can see students using smart watches to send email, listen to music and even make phone calls in campus. Exercise with a smart bracelet monitoring the body condition is also popular among young people. Thus, teenagers are quite familiar with these tiny computers. It is not difficult for them to start using wearable computers as tools for education. As a college student, I will be glad to accept these devices as a helpful tool. You can get access to information right on your waist any time. Imagine receiving information for a class through the smart glasses and watching presentation at the same time! It is no longer necessary to read information while losing concentration for the lecture. The popular smart watch also have some interesting application in education. According to the article "WEARABLE COMPUTING IN E-EDUCATION", students may use their watch to sign in into the class, to convert textual documents to speech and to notify the time left. Labus, Milutinovic, Stepanic, Stevanovic,& Milinovic ,2015, para. 30 
Wearable devices can create more engaging methods for interaction between students and class instructions. Therefore, they can provide students at almost any age with increased learning engagement. One of the excellent features of wearable computers will be providing the actual experience which can take students beyond the ability of the present technology Foote, 2015, para. 13. For example, when learning a foreign language, students can have an immersive experience of a local cafe created by a reality glasses, instead of listening to the conversations on tapes Foote, 2015, para. 11. Obviously, this kind of language studying will be much more interesting and efficient than the traditional method. According to Professor <name> from Purdue College of education, it will be possible to have some wearable translation devices in the future to translate automatically when people are talking in different language J. Lehman, personal communication, March 28, 2016. This kind of wearable computers may help break down the language barrier so that students from all over the world can communicate and cooperate easily. 
Besides language learning, wearable computers can be used to teach or learn various of other things. According to Professor <name> when visiting a museum, students can use wearable devices to receive additional information, mostly through Radio Frequency Identification technology <name> , personal communication, March 28, 2016. This kind of application will manage to help students learn more about arts, earth science and so on. Virtual Reality is another technology teachers might begin to use with some special kinds of wearable computers, for example, smart glasses. As described before, the glasses can create a virtual environment that teachers can take students on a trip back in history or to another country to see things. Smart glasses in the future may have both the capability of seeing and display, it has the advantage of letting users see both real and virtual world at the same time. It is reasonable that this kind of wearable computers will become increasingly valuable in education as a tool to help students to learn and to explore the world and different cultures. 
Some educators consider that wearable device make it easier for students both to learn and to get online at the same time. For that reason, they hold the ideas that these wearable devices should be kept out of the classroom. It is true that wearable computers make it easier for students to get access to the Internet than mobile phones and normal computers Foote, 2015, para. 15. However, parents and teachers can't just trying to block the use of wearable computers. Nowadays almost every electronic devices needs Internet connection. In college, we can see some students check their facebook during lecture time even if it is forbidden in policy. Indeed, students in a young age should be supervised when using wearable computers in class. Software or program can be made to monitor the devices in the classroom, just like the monitoring system in some computer labs today. As a student, I think teachers should consider how to encourage students to make a better use of the wearable computers instead of forbid them blindly. Wearable computers still hold potential for engaging learning in positive ways. 
In brief, wearable computers have many excellent features in educational application, which will help both students and teachers. Wearable technology is fast developing and many companies are aiming at creating software and programs which is specialized for wearable devices. Besides what was mentioned above, undoubtedly, there will be lots of possibilities. With these features, I believe wearable computers will play an important role in future education. For future improvement, producers may consider combining different wearable computers and other devices to built a wearable computing systems with various of functions to make a better use of these devices. I believe that in the future, everyone will have some portable computing systems that provide learning capabilities, just like our mobile phones and laptops today. 
