Can the protagonist Meursault from the novel The Stranger by Albert Camus be considered a threat to society? 
Brief Overview 
Albert Camus has split the novel into two parts. The first part explores the death of Meursault's mother and Meursault's routine life. The second part explores Meursault's time spent in jail which I will discuss in more detail later in the essay. 
The novel opens with Meursault receiving the terrible news of his mother's death. However, Meursault seems to be more concerned about the travel and transportation costs rather than the death itself. This is the first insight that readers get into his queer personality. During his mother's vigil, Meursault smokes and pays no attention to the funeral. The others at the funeral are repulsed and invigorated by his disrespectful behavior. 
Meursault - the protagonist - had to send his mother off to an old-age home because he could not afford the time and the money to take care of her. He was a man that received average income and owned a very small apartment, barely enough to suit his needs, let alone his mother's. This act of sending his mother to an old-age home was deemed immoral by society. 
The second significant event that is highlighted in part I of the novel, is Meursault's involvement with his neighbor - Raymond Sintes. Raymond and his girlfriend get into a feud involving domestic abuse. His girlfriend approaches the police for help while Raymond seeks help from Meursault. Raymond asks Meursault to help him write a letter to his girlfriend black mailing her to never contact him again. Soon after he sends the letter, the police shows up at his house and a huge scene is created. 
Following this incident, Raymond invites Meursault to join him for a weekend getaway. Meursault agrees, and they go with a couple of friends to a beach house nearby. They realize that they are being stalked by Raymond's ex- girlfriend's brothers. However, nothing happens. The next day Meursault is in the beach, lounging around when he spots one of the brothers. He immediately reaches for the gun in his bag and shoots the brother 4 times. 
Part II directly enters a scene in the courthouse. Meursault has been put in jail for murdering an Arab (the brother). The fact that the victim is Arab influences the story considerably because Arabs were treated badly at the time this novel was written. This also impacts the decision making process in the courthouse. 
Meursault is too lazy to hire and seek his own attorney, so he sticks to the one appointed by the court. He explains his story, his origins and the event to the attorney. The attorney is perplexed by Meursault's ability to go on a vacation a week after his mother's death and his lack of grief towards the incident. Meursault questions the relevance of this lack of emotion towards the case in hand. Soon, the entire courthouse and the neighboring city hear about Meursault's stoic and callous nature. They are revolted and flabbergasted by his behavior. Ultimately, Meursault is hung to death, not for murdering an Arab, but for being the way that he is. 
Main Body 
Can the protagonist Meursault from the novel The Stranger by Albert Camus be considered a threat to society? 
A common theme across literature is the portrayal of society in a positive or negative light. Camus specifically focuses on the aspect of justice to bring out his criticisms of society (Chalana, 2013). Perhaps it is not Camus' intention to portray Meursault as a threat to society but his descriptions certainly highlight the irrational components of the protagonist's character. Hence it quite a dilemma as to whether society is being unjust or whether Meursault is a force to be reckoned against. 
Much of Meursault's behavior is driven by the philosophies of Existentialism and Absurdism. (Mishra, 2015) Existentialism is a concept that revolves around the idea that human life is insignificant. Human life is temporary relative to the permanence of the universe. Humans come and go but the Earth continues to thrive. The sun continues to shine and the plants continue to produce oxygen. Existentialism also brings to attention the fact that death is inevitable and humans are not immortal hence we shouldn't react to death is such an overtly emotional manner. Absurdism can be defined as: The belief that human beings exist in a purposeless, chaotic world. It is one's responsibility to formulate a meaning in a meaningless life. The mood of pessimism was encouraged by political developments during the early 19th century. The world war caused much despair and woebegone which explains the emergence of this melancholic mind-set. (Mishra, 2015) 
It is quite apparent that Meursault's actions are fuelled by the historical and political setting of the novel. He cannot be entirely blamed for his indifferent and callous attitude if it was the widespread approach to life. However certain facets of his personality are potentially dangerous to society. This negative outlook is more magnified in Meursault's character than in any other character delineated in the novel. "I knew that I had shattered the harmony of the day, the exceptional silence of a beach where I'd been happy. Then I fired four more times." (Camus 93) Meursault shot the Arab four times for no particular reason. He felt anguished and patronized by the wrath of the sun's heat. He took a person's life unnecessarily. It is safe to say that society would be utterly dysfunctional and chaotic if civilians went about killing each other because they were annoyed by the warmth of the sun or the chill of the wind. Meursault's actions were executed without any intent or purpose. This can make him potentially more dangerous than a criminal who at least has a justifiable reason for the crimes he/she commits. (Gabby,R., Alina,A., Marrisa,B., Alexander,Z, 2012, ) 
However during the court and the trial scenes, it is evident that society is not punishing Meursault for his crimes but rather for embracing his individuality. The prosecutor accuses Meursault of "behaving at his mother's funeral in a way that showed he was already a criminal at heart" (Camus 122) Clearly the fact that Meursault did not cry at his mother's funeral overshadows the fact that Meursault killed an Arab. The priest, the magistrate, the lawyer and society are appalled by the fact that Meursault had no emotions towards the woman who raised him and smothered him with love through his growing stages. They are perplexed that Meursault chose to put his mother in an old age home instead of taking care of her. Meursault's personality is completely unacceptable and unpardonable in the eyes of society. 
It is also important to take into account the fact that the man who was murdered is simply referred to as "the Arab" throughout the novel. This is a further depiction of how insignificant he is amongst the members of the courthouse and society. His lack of identity in the novel showcases society's indifference towards his death. 
In the end, the jury comes to a final verdict that Meursault deserves a death sentence. (Chalana, 2013) This death sentence is based on Meursault's lack of sympathy and regard for feelings rather than his crime. It is important to note that society is being as insensitive to the Arab's death as is Meursault. The entire trial revolves around society's inability to accept Meursault's abstract method of thinking. Society is being just as cruel and unsympathetic, if not more, by taking Meursault's life. The metaphorical and physical death of Meursault reflects society's inability to be accepting towards different kinds of people. Not only Meursault, but essentially the stranger has been wiped out from society. Society can now live peacefully with the fact that there is no longer an anomaly dwelling amongst them. This tragic death of Meursault represents society's victory. 
Meursault's irrational behavior and his lack of thought process might make him dangerous to society. But this is not to say that society isn't as big a threat as he is. Strength comes in numbers, and when majority of the population believes in something, we assume it has to be correct but this is not always the case. It is because majority of the population agreed that Meursault should be sentenced to death, we as readers may think it is acceptable to punish Meursault so harshly. But in reality, every human life is equally important and society is essentially mirroring Meursault's actions, except in this case it is Meursault vs Everyone. Society is definitely more powerful and a bigger threat than Meursault in this novel. 
