Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
12/11/15 
Soft Skills versus GPA: The Debate 
A career is a long timeline of opportunities and it is important to be able to grab those opportunities. In every profession, there are certain qualities and qualifications that employers look for but there are a few common traits that most employers want to see in their employees. A perfect 4. 0 GPA while admirable loses its significance beyond the first job and certainly does not compensate for skills like communication, problem solving and teamwork which are the top skills that employers look for in potential professionals. In this paper, I will address the opposition to my thesis statement that argues that GPA matters more than people skills. I shall rebut the opposition by using appropriate sources and examples that prove that people skills top the list of qualities employers look for in potential candidates bypassing a candidate's GPA in importance. 
A debatable topic does not come without its doubts. A number of concerns arise when something as important as a student's GPA is 'discredited'. People may argue that certain jobs entail a GPA of 3. 5 or more especially jobs in investment banking (Koeppel, 2006). In fact, according to NACE (2005), roughly 7 out of 10 employers screen their candidates based on GPA. The largest group use a cutoff of 3.0. This leads to the next argument that good grades are an indication of how smart one is and employers look for smart people. Exams are meant to test one's knowledge and one who has mastered all the knowledge will excel at the exam. It is a simple explanation and logical argument. Another argument that can be made is that there are jobs where one does not require communication skills, jobs where one mostly works alone on a computer or in a hostile environment. The question that arises is why would someone in a job like this have the need to develop their communicating skills? The opposing arguments are logical and straightforward and I will address each of these issues in the following paragraphs. 
As mentioned earlier, many people would say certain jobs especially in the field of economics and investment banking look for candidates that have a GPA of 3. 5 or higher. While this claim is true, the point is that this is only the first step in the hiring process. It may secure a person an interview but it is not enough to get the job. There are other skills like people skills and problem solving skills that are more important because nobody is writing an exam on the job. Those particular jobs require a high GPA but they will not recruit only on the basis of that. In fact, on the same source (NACE, 2005), as mentioned above, communication skills, team work and problem solving skills are ranked above GPA. Companies still want eloquent communicators and effective problem solvers. A person who scores well on a written exam may not necessarily do well when it comes to real situations unless they have had the right work experience. There is also practically no job out there where one does not interact with other people. While a high GPA is commendable and means the candidate is hardworking and motivated it is not enough to get the job. At the workplace, employers essentially want to see results and even 4. 0 GPA cannot save someone if they don't produce the desired outcome. For example, there is a person with a 4. 0 GPA and there is another person with a GPA of only 3.5, even then he just makes the short list. The second person though is an eloquent communicator and problem solver and possesses all the soft skills the employers are looking for. The answer is simple, companies will recruit the latter because they need to ensure that along with a good GPA this candidate can actually handle the position they are employed in. Imagine if they had employed the former, what would happen? Though there is no doubt the candidate would have known his or her material, the candidate would not have been able to handle a real life problem that he/she was faced with due to a lack of experience. While GPA does matter, it cannot stand alone. The top skills that companies look for still include communicating, team work and problem solving skills and these are the skills that will get one the job. 
In this paragraph, I shall rebut the claim that GPA is the only indicator of how smart a person is and that due to this reason a person with a higher GPA will always be hired because they are 'smart'. While no one denies the importance of having good grades, it cannot be labeled as the only determining factor with regards to how smart a person is and this in turn cannot be used to predict whether a person will get a good job or not. Many famous and successful people were often high school and college dropouts or found education difficult. One excellent example being Albert Einstein. Though Einstein was a genius and a smart student, he failed his first attempt at his college entrance exams. Eventually he got in. Even at university, though he was an intelligent student, he struggled with subjects other than mathematics and his professors doubted he would graduate. They also didn't like him because they thought he was much too pleased with how smart he was. He did graduate but not by much which is how he ended up working in the Swiss Patent Office instead of at a school or university (History.com, 2009). The patent office job turned out to be a stroke of good fortune because it was excellently paid (3,500 Swiss francs per year and a good room in those days only cost about 70 Swiss francs per month) and was undemanding for his nimble intelligence. He spoke of the patent office as 'a worldly cloister where he hatched his most beautiful ideas'. With his courteousness and modesty and his humorous approach to life, Einstein was very well-liked (IPI, 2011). This example not only shows that grades don't determine the extent of your intelligence but also shows how important people skills are. At school and university, he never liked the concept of rote learning and because of this his teachers and professors found him to be a 'difficult' student. But once he started working all that changed as he was liked for his pleasant demeanor. As they say the rest is history and today Albert Einstein is a well-known name and face. "Your grades, whatever is your GPA, rapidly becomes irrelevant in your life. I cannot begin to impress upon you how irrelevant it becomes. Because in life, they aren't going to ask you your GPA. .. If a GPA means anything, it's what you were in that moment-and it so does not define you for the rest of your life." as renowned astrophysicist Neil De Grasse Tyson recently stated while delivering the commencement speech at the University of Massachusetts Amherst (Haltiwanger, 2015). Ultimately it is experience and connections that are important to employers. After the first job, GPA doesn't matter and a candidate will not be hired solely on the basis of an excellent GPA. 
While a GPA may not matter beyond the first job and people skills are prerequisites for most jobs, some may still argue that there are jobs where one works solo, where one does not require communication skills and that people skills are unnecessary in such cases. An article in the Business Insider lists the 15 best jobs for people who aren't good at communicating. Some of the jobs include software developers, database administrators, dentists and many more but the one thing that resonates in all the jobs listed is that these particular jobs do not require public speaking (Kiersz, 2014). This argument is wrong because the point here is that communication at the workplace doesn't always mean public speaking, it also refers to interacting with coworkers, authority figures and communicating in the written form. Software developers often work in teams and dentists have to interact with their patients. There really isn't any job where people skills are not required. From the example above, it is known that even Einstein was liked at his workplace for his courteous and humorous personality. Good communication is extremely important in every working relationship as it helps improve the quality of work done. In any job, there is no way communication skills can be deemed unnecessary. 
A good GPA may get one an interview but ultimately it is experience and people skills that gets one hired and this applies to almost all jobs because there really isn't a job out there where one does not interact with other people. From all my sources and the interview, I have come to the conclusion that employers look for candidates who can communicate well, work in a team and are problem solvers. Internships and work experience are the best indicators of these skills. A good GPA is an indicator of a motivated student though it doesn't take the top spot on the set of qualifiers that appeal to employers. 
