Phone Overuse 
Phone Overuse 
	By the development of technology, smartphones became useful and they are everywhere in our life People use smartphones to pay for shopping, check emails and do works from school or jobs. Smartphones bring people so many convenience but extremes meet. People start to spend too much time on their phones and some of them even spend time on their phones more than their sleeping time. Phone overuse is becoming a general problem in society nowadays and a lot of people do not know about it. Phone overuse causes sleep problem, decrease the quality of working and affects people's daily life negatively. 
	People enjoy using phones and some people hold opinions that this is fine and does not have any problems. People do not believe that using phones may hurt their friendship and cause any social problems. They think that keep chatting with their friends is a good way to keep friendship with them because they stay connected all the time by use chatting apps and Facetime. For example, couples in love always message and chat each other all the time when they do not meet each other. They hold their phones all the time to check whether there is updating on their phones. They think the phones bring them closer when they don't see each other and video chatting app provides them even better chance to talk to each other and also see them. There is also another opinions which says that phones bring people much convenience and instead of lower working efficiency, they increase the quality of work. There are a great number of apps on smartphones for both professional users and common users. Code scanners help warehouse employees do their work more efficiently. Cab drivers use smartphones to find taxi riders and also use the map to navigate. People may also question the negative effects of overusing phones by asking "there are a lot of people using phones all the time and they all live well". These people enjoy using phones and have a good life. None of them have serious injuries related to the using of phones. These are three arguments that people may have about overusing phones. 
	First, phone overuse cause negative effects on productivity. Using phones correctly and limitedly will assist people a lot. However, using them all the time with no limit will poison the users A survey found that people spend an average 8 hours and 21 minutes sleeping a day, but spend an average of 8 hours 41 minutes on media devices. Also four in ten people check their phones in the night occasionally after the message notification wakes them up (Davies, 2015). Phone overuse affects people's sleeping quality negatively and as a result, it makes people harder to wake up in the morning and it has a negative effect on day time work since people will feel sleepy and tired all day. "Heavy cell phone users were affected too, with those who used these devices regularly in bed 2. 5 times more likely to wake later in the weekends." says Dr. Nathaniel Marshall, Woolcock epidemiologist and leader of the study on the journal PLOS ONE (Roy, 2014). From the survey and the research by Dr. Marshall, the harmful effect of phone overuse is proved. Overusing phones requires people to have more sleeping time to recover. Because of the limit of working time, people always have to wake up early to go to work. As a result, they have to work with their sleepy eyes. In this situation, the working efficiency is significantly decreased by failing to focus. 
	Some other people may argue that there are a great number of people who use phones all the time and they still live well and healthy. Actually, the health problem which these people have is not easy to discover and these symptoms take time to show up. Phone overuse causes serious health problems both to our brains and immune system. Researchers of Silentnight have found that "the blue light emitted from phones wreaks havoc with the body's natural rhythms, tricking the body into thinking it is daytime. This stops the production of the natural sleep-hormone, melanin, and keeps a person awake" (Davies, 2015). Experts also warned that a continued lack of sleep lead to a seriously weakened immune system and increased risk of heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes (Davies, 2015). Also, by interviewing Dr. <name> from <department name> at Purdue University, long time phone disorder causes anxiety and depression on the level of psychology. "It is about brain connection and addiction is a kind of brain damage." Dr. <name> said, "When brain is damages, it cannot function normally. It cannot make the same decision that translate to normal behavior." She also mentioned that brains keep growing until 23 years old, so that teenagers who use phones a lot may get more damage than adults and it would take more time for them to recover from these damages. Both Silentnight's research and Dr. <name> words show the relation between phone overuse and health issue. Abusing on phones causes brain and immune system problems and both of them directly affect phone users' health. 
	Third, people think that chatting with their friends build a strong friendship between them so that they should not leave their phones. If they do not reply their friends as soon as they can, their friends may get mad at them. By over spending time on phones, these people miss their friends in front of them. Merlo, who is a clinical psychologist, found out that a number of her patients who spend a lot of times of phones might try to ignore people around them. These patients may pretend talking on phones or swipe their phones to avoid eye contact or any other interactions with people around them in public area (Gibson, 2011). Gazelle, a phone company, made a survey about using phones during social time and "More than 25% of survey respondents report that they "almost always" use their i Phone while in a social setting such as during a meal or while at a party" and 58% people say that they "usually" or "occasionally" use phones during these settings (Belardi, 2012). In these setting, people forget people near them and live in their phone world. The people who are with these phone users may feel embarrassed and forgotten since phone users do not talk to them and only reply some simple words. Phone overuse causes serious problems and people are losing their social ability in the real world. They are afraid to have eye contact with others. From these researches and examples of patients, people's social ability is deeply affected by phone overuse. The more time they spend on their phones, the less contact they will make with people in the real world. 
	In conclusion, phone overuse has negative effect and people who overuse phones will be affected both on health and psychology. Phone overuse is becoming a major social problem in the age. People hold different opinions on using phone. Phones are good tools and people design them for making the life easier and better. But too much on anything is not good. By these research and survey, phone overuse affect people's life negatively. The working efficiency is lowered, brain and immune system are affected and the relationship between people is broken. It is important for people to leave their phones, raise their head and to see the world in front of them instead of the 5 inches screen in their hand. 
Reference 
Belardi, B. (2012, June 18). Consumers Crave i Phone More Than Facebook, Sex, According to 
Gazelle. Retrieved December 11, 2015, from http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/consumers-crave-iphone-more-than-facebook-sex-according-to-gazelle-159430685.html 
Davies, M. (2015, March 11). Average person now spends more time on their phone and laptop 
than SLEEPING, study claims. Retrieved December 11, 2015, from http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2989952/How-technology-taking-lives-spend-time-phones-laptops-SLEEPING.html 
Gibson, E. (2011, July 27). Smartphone dependency: A growing obsession with gadgets. Retrieved December 11, 2015, from http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/health/medical/health/medical/mentalhealth/story/2011/07/Smartphone-dependency-a-growing-obsession-to-gadgets/49661286/1 
Roy, S. (Ed.). (2014, November 14). Cell Phone Addicts Most Sleep Deprived Sleep Review. Retrieved December 11, 2015, from http://www.sleepreviewmag.com/2014/11/cell-phone-addicts-sleep-deprived/ 
