Heav 125 
			 No Returning for Chinese Benefit 
	Since China lost the First Opium War in 1840, the gate of the Imperial Chinese Empire had been opened by only three thousand British soldiers. After this war, the Great Britain got enough benefits which included Hong Kong and millions of dollars. Many western countries were surprised about the result of this war because they never thought the glorious China could be easily defeated by British and they found that China was no more powerful and it was very weak. Then, these western countries started to invade China. Their behavior could be the same as wolves ate meat. During the time period from 1840 to 1945, many precious artifacts were looted or stolen in invasions. These artifacts which represented Chinese ancient technology and art style were very valuable in Chinese Culture. Nowadays, China becomes much stronger than before and it is one of the five strongest countries in the world. In this case, some Chinese patriots start to think about artifacts which stay in the other countries. However, returning artifacts is not a simple problem which could be solved by a short conversation. Using money to buy them back is more effective than diplomatic negotiation Kwame, O, 2014, Para 1. However, purchasing these antiques back could cause some problems which make China losing a lot. In this situation, these artifacts which were looted should not be returned if China needs to buy them back because it is not valuable in money using, it is not fair in diplomacy, and it will lose on improving something important. 
First of all, invaluable money using is the main reason why these artifacts should not go back. According to an interview, expert [name] said: "Nowadays, with the fast improvement in Chinese Economy, most Chinese people concentrate more on money than those old antiques." [name] , Personal Communication, [date] , 2015 Most Chinese people almost use their mind on thinking about how to make more money or how to be rich. In their opinions, artifacts were old things which have no relationship with their revenue. For most Chinese people, these artifacts have already been forgotten, even some of them do not know Chines history. Also, because of the human being's avarice essence, some people will try to steal artifacts from museums and sell them back to Western in order to make money. That causes a big money lost in Chinese Economy. 
Second, it is not fair for China to spend money to buy these Chinese artifacts back because these were all made in China and owned by China before. Even though they were lost in Chinese weakest time, they still belonged to China and their nationality are in China. If the Chinese government uses money to purchase them back, this will also cause some serious problems like people's attitude to the government and the other countries' attitude to China. Moreover, the worst thing will be that some Chinese people are disappointed on the government. Also, the status of countries in politics won't be equal if China spend money in buying these artifacts. No one will respect an innocent who beseeches a robber and uses a large amount of money to buy his own things back. In addition, the best way to solve this problem is going through the diplomacy. It takes longer time, but it always gets a good result. For example, French government returned two stone head which were looted from the summer palace to China in 2011. 
Finally, using a large amount of money to buy these artifacts back will decrease the development on something important of the whole country. The fortune of China is in a balance. If China spend money in getting these antiques back, it means China will lose the same amount of money in developing Military construction, Economy, Agriculture, and Industry. Comparing with the benefit of the nation, artifacts have nothing valuable because they represent the past time which won't come back forever. On the other hand, improving Chinese power will increase the status of China which represents the future. Nowadays, China is not in a perfect society and there are still some confusing social problems which need to be solved. If China could spend money effectively and give up the idea of purchasing artifacts back, the power of China will increase up to another level. 
In conclusion, China has enough money and really wants these artifacts back home. However, purchasing is not the appropriate way for China to get them back because Chinese people do not care about them, there will be a big impact on politics, and China will lose money in developing something important. These artifacts are a kind of symbols of Chinese Culture. It's good for them to stay in the other countries because they also could show how smart ancient Chinese people were. An old Chinese proverb said that people need to give up something small in order to get a big one. When considering this from the benefits of China, these artifacts really should not come back. 
2 
