4/25/15 
P5D3 
Alien Life is No Fiction 
With today's technological advances, humans are trying to find evidence of extraterrestrial life; sources of water, suitable atmosphere to support life and artificial landmarks on the surface of planets. Many people think that aliens exist, but many others disagree to that point. We live in a world which all is possible; life exists even in most harsh environments. I believe that there is life somewhere in space that is searching for life too, or waiting to be found. 
	The first reason why I do believe there are life forms elsewhere is that, although the chances of other life forms exist out there in space is really high it also, does not mean that they are advance species like us. The Hubble Deep Field is an image of a small region in the constellation Ursa Major, the images are constructed from a series of observations by the Hubble Space Telescope. It covers an area approximately about, 24-milionth of the whole sky. The image of the Hubble Deep Field, consisted roughly about 3000 objects, these objects are classified as galaxies. From that, it is estimated that there are 3 trillion stars. Scientist further stated that there are 1 Septillion stars in the Universe (1 followed by 21 zeroes). Seth Shostak, a former astronomer1, explains that, as research over the past decade has shown, at least 50 percent of those stars in the universe are harbor planets. Shostak estimates that there are 1 trillion planets in the Milky Way alone, and he says "Surely some of them have undergone what Earth has undergone and developed life." The sun that we love and know is a star; it has 8 planets. These planets and a star constructed the solar system that we live in. Furthermore, it is likely that there are at least as many planets as stars. Furthermore, The Drake Equation that was developed by Frank Drake in 1961, is a tool to estimate the odds of finding intelligent life in the universe. 
The second reason is related to Einstein who famously concluded that space in the Universe can be warped and bent, intelligent aliens probably has figured out a way to travel faster than light by bending space and using wormholes. So it is possible that they are visiting or have visited earth before, this could lead to all those numerous sightings of UFOs by astronauts, pilots, and people on the ground. Reports of UFO sightings kept increasing over the years, disk shaped objects floating in the sky, some sightings reported that UFOs are hovering above clouds and small illuminants can be seen flickering from it. According the ABC news, somewhere around half of the people in the U.S. believed that we were being visited by aliens. The famous phoenix lights incident in 1997, is one of the most famous UFO sightings, hundreds of not thousands of people in the phoenix area witnessed a row of lights hovering in the sky and slowly falling. The footage of the Tether Incident was captured by NASA in space while conducting an experiment by deploying 19 kilometers of tether to measure magnetic fields across space. The Tethered Satellite System Broke, and soon after that, the whole equipment started to drift towards space. Moments after the breakage, NASA's infrared camera started picking up swarms of bright circular objects flying towards it. 
The third reason is that, Life evolved "quickly" on Earth. I had an interview with Dr. Harshvardan in the past, and he believes that, the definition of life represents what life we have here on earth, which is carbon based life. There is a possibility that there are other life forms that may not be carbon based; they might be silicon based. To add on to Dr. Harshvardan's idea, the definition of life is generally accepted as-Something that is alive and is able to be replicated. If a life somewhere else is unable to replicate itself and once that species dies, that's the end of that chapter. Furthermore, life thrives in extreme environments, almost everywhere scientists go on Earth, they find life. For example, creatures have been found in the cold dark depths of the oceans; buried under the Antarctic ice. Seth Shostak says, "Life can adapt to really tough conditions and, of course, most of the universe is going to be filled with habitats that are tough." 
On the other hand, millions or billions of people may disagree with the idea that there could be life on the other places. As stated above about the Drake Equation as an estimate tool for finding intelligent life in the universe, plugging in numbers into the equation gives an exceptionally low probability of intelligent life forms. An estimate probability that only 0.001% of other planets having advanced life forms living on them; 99.999% of other life forms that are not intelligent nor humans existing in other planets. As Shostak stated, "If we are the only intelligent beings in the galaxy, or for that matter in the universe, then we are truly a miracle." Also, people argue that it is difficult to believe or even to prove that Einstein's theory is correct, as we do not possess such advanced technology to participate in it. As mentioned before, the Phoenix lights incident was declared by the U.S. air force that it is not an UFO incident but a military exercise-planes dropping slow burning flares across the sky. The tether incident, it seems like NASA denied the fact that those objects are UFOs, but in fact are debris from the breakage. Although it seems unlikely that they are just debris as all of them has a similar outline and were zooming through space at different speeds. 
All in all, nobody seems to know the truth behind incidents that has occurred throughout human history. By connecting the dots, it all seems like the military, NASA and other connections with the government are hiding evidences from the public. In 2009, a former NASA astronaut and the sixth man to walk on the Moon, shocked the world when he admitted that he knew there is life elsewhere, and that governments and NASA has been covering up information about it, probably to keep from scaring the public. It's hard not to believe in this hypothesis as it was a former NASA astronaut who said it. I do believe that there are alien life forms out there in the universe, maybe they are doing the same thing like us-trying not to be alone. If we are the only intelligent life form in this universe, it is indeed a miracle. People argue that there are problems on earth that has yet to be fixed or mysteries that are unsolved, before reaching out to the skies to unravel the secrets in space. Stephen Hawking mentioned in one of his lectures, "Life on Earth is a mystery as well, we do not know how DNA molecules first appeared. The chances against a DNA molecule arising by the random fluctuations are very small. Some people have therefore suggested that life came to Earth from elsewhere."2 
1 http://www.space.com/15702-alien-life-solar-system-places.html 
2 http://www.hawking.org.uk/life-in-the-universe.html 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
