DATE: 12/04/2015 
ASSIGNMENT NAME: Argumentative Report 
DRAFT #3 
The Final Chapter 
For the last few weeks, I have been analyzing the extent of mutual influence that language and culture have on each other. I began my journey to find the answer by introspecting and recollecting any personal experience that can provide a window to the interaction between language and culture. I extended my research to a literature review of informational articles and books. The scholarly material gave me a breadth of information to dive into and have glimpses of correlations between language and culture from different sources. To add more depth into my study, I furthered my progress by interviewing <name>, a Korean-born American citizen. The interview with <name> was educational and interesting as it opened some unexpected facets of the interaction between language and culture from a person "caught" between two cultures - something I would not have otherwise found in the books. As I am nearing the end of the research, I have come to a conclusion that while language and culture affect and influence each other, it is primarily the language that affects the culture. While it is true that a language is born at the heart of a culture, however, the language turns around to prod, push and eventually shape the culture from which it is born. 
The idea that language might shape thought or culture, in general was for a long time considered crazy. But, recent cognitive researches point out that languages extend much influence on our way of thinking. Beek's academic article, Linguistic Relativism, highlights a crucial point about how language affects the thinking and therefore the culture. According to the study mentioned in the article, native English speakers who learned Mandarin were able to develop similar viewpoints about interchangeability of spatial and temporal prepositions similar to Mandarin speakers. The native English speakers never grew up in China and therefore were oblivious to the Chinese culture. However, given a short training on how to use the spatial words for "above" and "below" to indicate temporal events in Mandarin, the English speakers were able to match their thought processes with the native Chinese speakers in the test. This is a direct and conclusive example about how language affects thought process. In other words, a culture is nothing but a direct consequence of a collective thought processes that occur in the individuals constituting a society. If language can affect thought process, it can definitely affect a culture on a large scale. 
Furthermore, to bolster my stand on language and its effect on the culture, lets take a look at an interesting behavioral study. A study was published in Mirror.co.uk and Eureka Alert.org that focused on how 1500 citizens from 30 countries would rank on a scale of honesty. There were two tests in this experiment - a "coin" test and a "quiz" test. For the coin test, Japanese, Korean, Chinese and Indian speakers were among the least honest. For the quiz test, the Turkish speakers earned the ignominy of being the least honest. The interesting aspect here is the fact that the countries that fared worse in these tests such as Japan, Korea, Turkey and India have languages that utilize a SOV sentence structure. Could there be a connection between the sentence structures and how it teaches people to be more honest or dishonest over time? 
I asked one of the Japanese translators at Linguavista, <name>, about her opinion of the study and my assumption. <name> agreed with me. From a linguistic standpoint though, <name> said that a speaker of a SOV language has a massive advantage over SVO language since the speaker can manipulate the verb on the go. In a typical Japanese sentence, the characters are presented first and then the actions. She noted that perhaps over a period of time, these small lies turn into an unconscious collective habit of the society as a whole where premeditated lies or behavior may become commonplace. It is therefore not at all surprising for her to see that a language can actually affect the mindset and therefore the culture. 
In 1984, Kay & Kempton showed in their paper, "What Is The Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis?" that the differences between English and Tarahumara speakers regarding how they identify colors and temporal events occurred because of the lack of words to specify these differences in the Tarahumara language. My sister-in-law, <name>, is a resident of China and a native Chinese speaker. I decided to test her family and friends with a simple character recognition test similar to that of Kay and Kempton to see whether language wires our visual senses as well. In Japanese, we have a character in the Hiragana Script, which is written as (pronounced as "e" as in egg). This character was presented to the Chinese speakers. They were then showed to Chinese characters: (zhi) and (yuan). They were asked a simple question - which one of these two Chinese characters resembled closer to the Japanese character. An overwhelming majority of them said resembled closer to the Japanese character than . When asked why, the most frequent response was that the stroke order and characteristics made the speakers feel so. The same question was posed to my family who knew absolutely no Mandarin. For them, was closer to the Japanese character, , since both of the characters resembled the English letter, "Z". It is therefore obvious that we tend to see things from a standpoint that we are familiar with. In other words, language can and does affect how we use our visual senses, which can extend out to cultural aspects such as aesthetics and art. 
The question of whether languages are really responsible for the way we think dates back centuries ago. One big issue is the problem of translatability. If each language had its own reality embedded within it language then it would be next to impossible to translate from one language to another (Hunt & Franca, 1991). However, it's a fact that the translation industry has been booming and generating transactions around $40 billion a year. Every single day, hundreds and thousands of articles are translated. This contradicts Whorfian Hypothesis' belief that if there is a deep reality or a core existence to a language then someone knowing a particular language will not be able to translate the same to their native language. Another example given by Whorf points that there are many words for snow in the Aleut language compared to English which is a distinguishing factor in the way both these communities think about the world. But, many researches have concluded that English has just as many terms as Aleut. It is quite evident from this that, people living in arctic or in the hot tropical belts of India, the excess presence or absolute absence doesn't alter their perceptions of the world. It's perfectly normal for two systems to have an enriched vocabulary for a word. 
With some critical flaws aforementioned about Whorfian's hypothesis, what can we conclude about it? The Whorfian hypothesis certainly suffers from flaws but it has stood the test of time. The example given by Whorf regarding relation of Aleut and snow may not be perfect. But, it points out to the fact that we can only think and express ourselves the best in whatever language we know and understand well. Clearly, Aleut-speaking people can relate to snow amongst each other in a better way than maybe English-speaking Indians can amongst themselves. This brings us to a conclusive point that language has a big role in defining what we think or which direction we will tend to think towards. Shifting our view to the origin of languages, we find that cultures themselves have undergone so many transitions throughout centuries. It's only natural that languages would have evolved with it and changed the same way. Therefore, there maybe a parent language from which many languages would have derived from but there will be key differences to mark their unique identity. Hence, each language has its own "reality"; linking up the similarities - is the only stepping stone for the translation industry. 
In the search of my answer about whether language and culture affect each other, I have come to a point where I realize the vastness of human culture and linguistic diversity that lies behind us. Each culture and each language has something unique to teach us. A language is a window through which you can see the soul of the culture from which it is born. How much exactly does a language affect a culture? I still intend to find out in the future. However, for the time being, it is beyond any doubt that language has time and again defined cultures and subcultures over time. 
