Does Fast food should be banned? 
With our busy lifestyles, eating fast food has become a very convenient way to satisfy one's hunger. However, fast food includes low nutritional value, high sodium and sugar content, and high fat and calories, which are very serious issue nowadays. Statistic shows that the nutritional value of fast food consumed by children in Australia is gradually decrease over the past 30 years. 1 It means fast food is one of factors that threaten public health. I believe it should be blamed and banned for causing significant health problems in our body. 
	First of all, Fast food should be banned because it is unhealthy. Fast food, containing fat, salt, and sugar, is the reason for obesity. In recent day, younger generation is the largest consumer group of fast food. "Childhood obesity is particularly troubling because the extra pounds often start children on the path to health problems that were once confined to adults."2 Continuously, childhood obesity can increase the risks of heart disease in their future. 
	Secondly, fast food causes behavioral disturbance in children. Fast food, containing chemical substances, flavorings, and preservatives, extend the expiration date. Moreover, those chemical additives design to make the food more appetizingly. However, these chemical additives cause the behavioral disturbances, such as hyperactivities (ADHD)3 and pour concentration. Base on my researching, these results demonstrated that fast food affects significant health problems in our body. 
	Finally, most of fast food companies are large scale and worldwide. Their fast food advertisement displayed on TV every day. More advertising, more consumption is natural. However, the wide spreading of fast food does not make good effect in much aspect. Large-scale Fast Food Company destroys the originality or locality in the other countries. It means food diversity is disappeared by multinational fast food. 
	On the other points of view, people disagree with the fast food containing low nutritional value because there is a case what person actually lived on fast food alone. Also, they believe the reason of behavioral problem is birth defect. Even though their ideas are really creative, they do not wish to tangle with others for their health problems. 
	In conclusion, consuming fast food can satisfy one's hunger, but cannot satisfy one's health. 
1 http://www.goodfood.com.au/good-food/food-news/average-australian-eats-fast-food-nearly-every-week-20140311-34k15.html 
2 http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/childhood-obesity/basics/definition/con-20027428 
3 http://www.additudemag.com/adhd/article/879.html 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
