Stop Fast Food for Life 
When you walk on the road, you may be able to find and see many fast food restaurants at anywhere. When you enter any buildings, you can find many signs that say "ready to serve." Why is there so many fast food restaurants around? The reason is obvious; with our busy lifestyles, eating fast food has become a fast and easy way to satisfy one's hunger. However, while people are attracted to fast food that is convenient, they are missing some very significant problems of eating fast food. In fact, fast foods affect not only people's health but also, the quality of life. 
Through the growth of fast food industry over the past few years, many younger adults prefer to consume fast food for saving time and improving their quality of lives. People do not think that the food is worth their while for increasing their quality of lives. However, that is not true. Even though people think that fast food save and give time and improve the quality of life, their obsession with fast food are adversely affecting their quality of lives. First, the human body is suffering. Since 1950s, many scientists demonstrated that the fast food includes low nutritional value, high sodium and sugar content, and high fat and calories, which does not provide sufficient and necessary nutrition and minerals. If people do not get enough nutrition and minerals from eating, they will be sick and unable to get some opportunities to enjoy their lives. 
Another serious health concern about fast food is obesity. Nowadays, childhood obesity is a serious issue around the globe. According to the global health statistic reports by WHO (2007), the nutritional value of fast food consumed by children in Australia is gradually decreased and the rate of child obesity has dramatically increased over the past 30 years. As the statistic has shown, in recent time, the younger generation is the largest consumer group of fast food. However, "childhood obesity is particularly troubling because the extra pounds often start children on the path to health problems that were once confined to adults."1 It means childhood obesity increases the risk of heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure in the future. More serious, cancer also can be caused by childhood obesity. 
In addition, fast food contains not only low nutritional value, fat, high sodium and sugar, but also chemical substances such as flavorings and preservatives. Those chemical substances used to extend the expiration date of meats and bread. Also, those chemical additives design to make the food more appetizingly. However, those chemical additives cause behavioral disturbance of children, such as hyperactivities (ADHD)2 and poor concentration. Continuously, much scientific research has linked to fast food to ADHD. "Excessive use of fast foods and other foods of poor nutritional value can cause kids to display behavior like ADHD,"3 said Frank Barnhill, an expert on ADHD. ADHD is a very serious mental problem. It always begins in childhood, but it could continue into adulthood. As a result, it affects almost all aspects of their daily lives. 
	On the other points of view, people disagree with the fast food containing low nutritional value because fast food like pizza and hamburger includes fresh vegetables and bread made with oats. They believe these vegetables and oats give enough nutrition to our bodies. However, that is not true. The human's body needs various nutrition than nutrition that contain in pizza and hamburger. Through the fast food, person cannot get sufficient and various nutrition what a person needs for a healthy body. Also, they believe the reason of behavioral problem is a birth defect. Birth defect and hereditary are factor of behavioral problem. However, I also can say that today's eating habits are the most reason for symptom ADHD in children. Even though their ideas are really creative, they do not wish to tangle with others for their health problems. 
	In conclusion, while many people won't be able to eat fresh and homemade food every day, people can begin to improve their quality of lives by buying and eating high nutrition and fresh foods when they have some options. I believe that If people consume healthy foods than fast food, people will have much healthier and enjoyable lives. 
1 http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/childhood-obesity/basics/definition/con-20027428 
2 http://www.additudemag.com/adhd/article/879.html 
3 http://www.everydayhealth.com/adhd-pictures/how-food-can-affect-your-childs-adhd-symptoms.aspx 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
