Argumentative Essay 
Eng 106i 
4.02. 2016 
Drug addiction in babies- an overlooked tragedy 
All societies deal with a vast variety of problems and conflicts. One major problem in most societies is drug abuse. It has been a problem over a long period of time and it has come to the point that drug abuse, to a certain extent, has become common and consistent problem which society chooses not to deal with or simply runs away from it. The reason, I believe that drug abuse is such a crucial issue is that; in it lay the roots of many other problems for example, violence (domestic or other), high suicide rates, high crime rates and now drug addiction in infants and new born babies. In the following paper I will be discussing the latter. Even though drug abuse, being an old problem, has faded into the subconscious of many it has given birth to a new and outrageous crisis, which is drug addiction in babies. Drug abuse by pregnant women is at a rise and subsequently the number of reported cases of substance dependent babies is also at a rise. This needs to stop and the public needs to be aware of this horrible occurrence. 
Substance abuse has infiltrated the rational reasoning of pregnant women. They abuse drugs despite knowing that it cannot be good for the fetus. This substance abuse leads to babies being born already addicted to the drug abused by the mother during pregnancy and these grave incidents are ignored and are not given importance by the society. To stop further rise in these cases of substance dependent babies society needs to step up and start taking responsibility. Since this a problem that exists in communities it is best if members of the community try and bring about a change at a very basic and fundamental level. A simple gesture of help to the woman abusing drugs can bring about a great change in her life and may turn things around. As mentioned by Mr. Yang, an expert on substance abuse, that if a person experiencing drug abuse is shunned and isolated from his or her society it raises the chances of their habit getting worse. Between 2006 and 2008 the cases of drug addicted babies reported was 1. 7 in every 1000 babies born and for the years from 2010 to 2014 the number of reported cases was 5. 3 in every 1000 babies born (Warren, 2016). 
Some may argue that drug addiction in babies does not necessarily mean high fetal/infant mortality rate and hence does not need immediate attention. This a misconception because as a consequence of this drug abuse the fetus/infant develops Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS) this has a caused a 74-fold increase in sudden infant death syndrome (Minozzi S, Amato L, Bellisario C, Ferri M, Davoli M.). Along with this increase the baby suffers from narcotic withdrawal, postnatal growth deficiency, microcephaly (A condition in which a baby's head is significantly smaller than expected, due to abnormal brain development), neuro-behavioural problems (Minozzi et Al.). 
Coupled with lack of action by society there is also a lack of awareness of drug addicted babies. Many people are not aware that drug abuse by pregnant women can lead to such a consequence and hence need to be educated about this horrible occurrence. Drug abuse carries a social taboo with it. Where this social taboo maybe a good thing in a sense that it does not promote or encourage substance abuse it also has a disadvantage as people avoid talking about it and they avoid being associated with it. Since people do not discuss it, drug related problems are often hidden and are not allowed to surface enough to be dealt with. An article published in the guardian spoke of reasons of addiction where the author said "Addiction is a symptom of something very wrong with our society. The reason why drugs are popular, because drugs work. They allow people in pain, whom society has rejected." (Chris Arnade, 2016). Since people are not educated about how to deal with such a problem they are unable to help those around them. 
People may propose that in order to curb drug addicted babies society should help teenagers who abuse at a young age so that they should not grow up to become substance abusers and hence the numbers regarding drug addicted babies would decrease. Whereas this maybe a valid claim many of the drug abusers associated with the phenomenon of drug addicted babies start using later in their life. As 'hardcore' drugs are easily available to a more mature and adult population because drug dealers often avoid selling such drugs to minors. Secondly hardcore drugs are better biologically managed by an older population. This means that their body is physically mature enough to handle the effect of the drug along with the fetus. 
In conclusion, drug addiction in babies is a real phenomenon that is increasing in number due to both lack of awareness and action by society. This starting to become a very neglected and suppressed problem and it needs immediate attention and action. The babies undergo many difficult withdrawal symptoms and may also have to deal with the disabilities that will be attached to them their entire life. People need to start taking action by reaching out to those at risk of being a victim of drug abuse and if not that then they should attempt to gain knowledge about it and pass it on to other so that the helping network grows. 
Reference: 
Arnade C. (2016, February). Why I don't use Heroin. The Guardian, Retrieved from http://www.theguardian.com/society/2016/feb/25/by-understanding-why-people-use-drugs-i-now-know-why-i-dont-use-them 
Minozzi S, Amato L, Bellisario C, Ferri M, Davoli M (2013). Maintenance agonist treatments for opiate-dependent pregnant women. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2013, 1(12). Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0013878/ 
Warren C. (2016, February). Number of drug-addicted babies on the rise in Sonoma County. The Press Democrat, Retrieved from http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5074500-181/number-of-drug-addicted-babies-on?artslide=0 
1 
