12/3/2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Draft #3 
Advantages of the magical sodium glutamate 
As is known to all, the sodium glutamate has a long history traced back to the beginning of 20th century. As early as 1908, the sodium glutamate was first discovered in the kelp. Later, due to the satisfactory flavor of sodium glutamate, it was soon commercialized in 1909 by Japanese brother Suzuki as the form of gourmet powder. What's more, it was also the first time people produced the sodium glutamate in large quantities. It goes without saying that the production of sodium glutamate was a crucial step in the field of food. 
The actual function of sodium glutamate has confused people for dozen years because of its indefinable properties. The thought that I would like to do some investigation of sodium glutamate arose from an interesting observation. I found that meat is rich in glutamate, which stimulate our amino acid receptors on the taste bud, as a result of this, many people prefer eating meat rather than eating vegetables. As my previous illustration in the Personal Narrative Assignment, I have posed my view about the overwhelming advantages of sodium glutamate. Likewise, in this essay, I am willing to argue the positive aspect of sodium glutamate. However, there are still some opposite ideas. One of the reasons is that sodium glutamate is the admitted and the most popular condiment since it was found in the kelp in 1908. In addition, sodium glutamate does play vital role in the medical field. Based on the researches I did on the web, and the personal interview with an expert in Chemistry-Christina, I firmly believe that sodium glutamate has made significant contribution to human beings. 
Speaking of sodium glutamate, which comes first is the function it behaves as the gourmet powder to improve the taste of food. In result, it is just the human nature that people are more obsessed with food which has umami, such as meat, seafood, and some of the fermentative soybean products. Everyone should have the experience that we are accustomed to adding some gourmet powder while cooking. According to the article "New seasonings" by professor <name>, who found the sodium glutamate first in 1908, I am glad to see that sodium glutamate was found as a new seasoning with different taste distinguished from salts and sugar. "Its intensity is inferior when compared to substances with an extremely strong taste such as alkaloids and saccharin, but it is stronger than salt or sugar which are used as a common seasoning" (Ikeda 848). To be convincing, I asked <name> the particular reason why sodium glutamate had the ability to enhance one's appetite, she raised a publication from 1990 suggested that sodium glutamate specifically could stimulate orosensor receptors or improved the delectableness of certain foods by activating metabolic degredation. Although sodium glutamate does such a good effect on our life, from another side, many people regard glutamate as a danger. They think that when sodium glutamate is heated over a certain temperature, it may release some harmful substances, such as nitrite. To be honest, because the high-temperature environment can change many substances, if sodium glutamate will generate the nitrite or not is not a sure thing. Nitrite is used to deal with meat, and human also produce it themselves during the procedure of digestion. That's why I state that sodium glutamate can be fantastic serving as a condiment. 
Which is greater is that sodium glutamate has contributed a lot as a medicine or therapy. Result from the basic property of sodium glutamate, it can adjust acid-base balance in our bodies. Additionally, I know that sodium glutamate can supplement the sodium in blood because it is not only a glutamate, but also a sodium salt. Whereas, I am not familiar with its specific medical application, so I gather resources from the internet to study this aspect of sodium glutamate. One of the articles I mentioned in my Literature Review- "Effects of sodium glutamate on the nervous system" by Takashi Hayashi can solve my confusion. The article well explained how did people know that sodium glutamate could be operated as the therapy of some kinds of diseases-it might be an incident oxidation reaction in our brains which could fight against the disease. There is an opposite opinion as well because it was turned out to be unreliable for lack of clinical analysis. What I would like to demonstrate is that with the detailed practical steps and data, the article had shown that the medical application of sodium glutamate could work well in some certain diseases regardless of risks. To speak of, sodium glutamate can activate the cerebral function for a moment. The detailed procedure was mentioned in the article. "The above results will be easily interpreted that sodium glutamate in its low concentration makes the nerve cell to be more active than otherwise, but if its concentration is higher than a certain critical value, it generates a successive and strong impulses on own accord "(Hayashi 3189). Anyhow, due to such crucial medicinal value will show that sodium glutamate has many benefits, the most important thing is our health after all. 
On the whole, if I was once confused about the function of sodium glutamate, then, after my researching, I absolutely persist in the amazing advantages of it. In spite of the fact that some people do not trust sodium glutamate, it definitely brings loads of virtue with respect to its seasoning ability and medicinal value. 
