Argumentative Essay Draft#3 
Finished Date: November 16th 
China was least violated on Crashes 
From the information and data I gained in past papers, now I have a clear and relatively complete overview of the Crashes happened in China on June. Compare with more detailed research on my previous topic - the reaction and influence of Crashes - I realized that may be finding which economic entity was least violated on Crashes is more interesting and useful for me to analyze the deeper side of the Crashes. Initially, I imagined multiple possible answers besides other foreign countries and their economies. However, based on a series of logical inference and data, personally speaking, Chinese economy was least violated after the Crashes. 
As far back as 2008 economic crisis, Chinese economy was proved to be the least violated compare to the elsewhere of world.(Li.& Willett.&Zhang, 2012) For the same reason, this time Chinese economy should be same as that in 2008 crisis. In 2008, China kept high growth rate during the period of crisis. After that, the economy of China was increasing in 2010. To be specific, the GDP growth of China was approximately 20% higher than the rest of major economics.(Li &Willett &Zhang, 2012) Nonetheless, we can clearly reasoning that Chinese economy will be rebounded after the Crashes with a high growth rate because both two crisis are similar so the result should remain the same. Consequently, Chinese economy should be least affect during the 2015 Crashes. 
Chinese economy is regarded as the one which is least affected by 2015 Crashes also due to reducing effect on the future Chinese economy, while other advanced economy was seriously impacted at the same time.(Samuelson, 2015) To expand the idea expressly, the real concern for those outside China is the economic slowdown and influence from a fluctuating stock market. (Hunt &Stevens, 2015) In this way, the economy of those countries will be impacted in the future because of the Crashes. In contrast, Chinese economy will be no longer influenced because of the Crashes, said by some economists.(Samuelson, 2015) Henceforth, the economy of China is least violated by the Crashes as well as other countries' economy will be further impacted. 
Despite that some expert claims China is most affected in Crashes because of the devalued currency, Chinese economy still developed a lot after the Crashes happened. (Allen, 2015) In fact , it is true that Chinese currency is devalued, which may impact the world trade, but the overall economy of China isn't lower because of that. Actually, the extent of the devaluation isn't serious enough to destroy the whole China economy. 
In conclusion, all the evidence above supports an unshakable conclusion that Chinese economy is least violated by the Crashes. Even though the result I found was not as same as the answer I guessed before, it still can be understood with such logical inference. Moreover, several aspects are need to be improved under this circumstance. A case in this point is that government may should let the stock market recover by itself. Because the economy isn't control by the government of China, actually, there is an invisible hand controls all the economic practice. Additionally, from the content we discussed above, the stock market itself can relief itself in the end. Furthermore, personally speaking, I think Chinese government should concentrate on developing Chinese economy while other countries are dealing with the problems which Crashes brought to them. Actually, it is a difficult path to develop economy while other developed countries developing their economy at the same time. Nonetheless, if the Chinese government spends 100% of attention and progress on the economy now, the gap between China and other developed countries may be reduced gradually. 
