Why Obesity Is More Addressed to a Choice? 
Title 
Abstract 
This is an argumentative paper provides two incompatible opinions about obesity between a choice and a disease. This paper demonstrates the evidence of people's view of obesity as a disease. This topic is controversial and seems never ending in support of both sides of the issue. This paper will argue that obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may have a negative effect on health, leading to reduced life expectancy or increased health problems caused by a choice. This argumentative paper is the culmination of overall projects. The two different positions and limitations of each side of points are compared to my understandings to conclude obesity as a choice. 
Keywords: Obesity, Choice, and Disease 
In the United States, obesity is being extensively issued and debated countrywide to decide whether obesity is a disease or a choice. It becomes a controversial question for people who actually have obesity. Nowadays, numerous people support a position that obesity is a disease due to a lack of knowledge of how obesity is caused. As a disease, it will help change the way the medical community tackles this complex issue that affects approximately one in three Americans. Nevertheless, authors and scholars stress the point that there are many other causes of obesity such as health condition, genes or family history, medicines, environment, metabolism, socioeconomic, and emotional factors that seems dependent on the amount of exercise and unhealthy eating, that all contributes obesity as a disease. Since there are two competing claims that obesity is caused by a choice or a disease. This argumentative paper will lead me to find out both sides of a valid position and limitations of each two insistences. In order to have credible knowledge about both sides of issue, I will focus on obesity as a choice with my research comparing to the opposing positions which obesity as a disease. 
	Today, nearly one third of the United States adults are obese. According to the study from a 'World Health Organization (WHO)', (2013) "1. 4 billion adults who are over 20 years old are obese and this number is more than 10 percent of the adult population in the world." (p.2) As the WHO stated above, obesity become more serious problem in the nationwide. Then, we must ask what causes numerous people to be obese? In my opinion, obesity is caused by a choice from an insufficient amount of exercise and physical activity. Nonetheless, numerous people articulate obesity is a chronic disease that can seriously affect health and raises a risk for health problems, including coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, sleep apnea, and certain types of cancer (Daniels, 2005). But the risk factors that determine obesity can be complex. They are usually a combination of genes, socioeconomic factors, metabolism, and lifestyle choices. Some endocrine disorders, diseases, and medications may also affect a person's weight. Obesity contributes alcoholism, depression, and anxiety, which are also diseases (Crawford, 2002). There are definite medical patterns: hormone imbalances, neurotransmitter deficiencies and nutritional exhaustion that all contribute to obesity. Many of my patients that are obese have underlying medical issues that need to be addressed. I agree that there are behavior patterns that contribute to obesity, but these same behavior patterns are rooted in other biological factors. Stress, the standard American diet and the industrialization of food have all been blamed in the obesity epidemic. While all of these factors contribute to being obese, they also create critical biological imbalances that people cannot overcome, or do not have the tools or knowledge to understand how to change. 
	Obesity has been classified as a disease because it meets all requirements needed. According to Obama Care from the Health Care Blog (2014) a disease is a disorder or function in a human. There is no magic bullet for solving the costly epidemic of obesity, but fining those who suffer from the condition is unethical, disrespectful, and counterproductive. Obesity is a lifestyle that people choose to live. No one was born obese, this is what separates it from being a disease, many people are born with a their disease, although some can also get it later on in life. Obesity is a lifestyle chosen to be lived by lazy hungry people. They chose it, which is another thing that makes it not a disease. How many people have you met with a disease that says, "I chose this lifestyle and now I am paying the consequence?"(p.2) Not very many and if the people who might say it are smokers or something that could have easily been avoided. 
	The most common cause is caloric intake that is persistently higher than caloric output. Reimbursement may not be made for treatment of obesity alone since this treatment cannot be considered reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury. However, although obesity is not in itself an illness, it may be caused by illnesses such as hypothyroidism, Cushing's disease, and hypothalamic lesions. In addition, obesity can aggravate many cardiac and respiratory diseases as well as diabetes and hypertension. Therefore, obesity is considered as a disease. 
	On the contrary, obesity is one of the easiest "diseases" to avoid. Quit eating non-stop and get up and work out! Workout more than you eat and you will never be an obese person. The World Health Organization (2012), the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, and other authorities recommend that for good health, adults should get the equivalent of two and a half hours of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity each week. Keeping active can help people stay at a healthy weight or lose weight. It can also lower the risk of heart disease, diabetes, stroke, high blood pressure, osteoporosis, and certain cancers, as well as reduce stress and boost mood. Obesity is not a disease and should not be classified as one. Generally, the obesity is caused by insufficient amount of exercise and by an unhealthy eating habit. It is a condition, which may be associated with increased risk of certain diseases. It is possible to be obese and healthy, if one eats a balanced diet, gets regular physical activity, attends to other aspects of lifestyle that influence health, and makes use of appropriate preventive medical services. The most leading cause of the obesity is on an unhealthy eating and lack of physical activity rather than genes, metabolism, and emotion that takes very small portion in the cause of the obesity. 
	Obesity, while being a massive health problem that can cause or help disease, is not a disease in itself. While peoples` poor eating choices and lack of activity cause most cases of obesity others tend to be genetic or mental issues. Eating better foods or being more active rather than seeking treatment like an actual regular disease can avoid most cases of obesity. Also, study from Stanford University one of the expert professor about obesity, Crawford (2002), showed that "there is only 25% chance for people to get obesity when genetic is concerned and the obesity that is caused by genetics can be effectively treated by exercising and applying healthy eating habit." (p.2) To change a diet and the eating habit By from unhealthy eating habit to healthy eating habit that can prevent more than 60% chance of getting a cancer and obesity. Obesity is caused by bad dietary decisions and by not exercising enough, or any at all. If an obese person has a real disease then it may be harder for them to control their body weight, but some people just do not try at all. If you do not try to control your body weight, then you simply do not care enough about yourself. Most obese people just sit at home on the couch, eating their life away. Some obese people get so big to where they get depressed, and it is harder to gain control. Obese people never want to blame themselves, but they are the only ones that can control it. 
	Changing eating habit can effectively prevent obesity, obesity has already reached epidemic proportions in many countries, and the incidence of overweight and obesity is continuing to increase in children and adults. "In Australia, the available data suggest that among adults there was an increase in the prevalence of overweight and obesity from 48% to 63% for males, and 27% to 43% for females between 1980 and 1995." (p.3) Among Australian children, almost one in five are overweight or obese, representing a two-fold increase over the past 15 years. Adults can prevent and treat obesity by investing only two and half hours per week on doing exercise to avoid or cure obesity. Also, children can avoid or treat obesity by exercising one hour per day. Nonetheless, just last year (2013), an American Medical Association (AMA) proposed that obesity is a disease since it needs immediate government help to resolve the issue. AMA proposed with information that since the obesity is highly related to heart disease, it should be recognized as disease. Otherwise, it was only the American Medical Association has erred, as its action will provide an excuse for those who have the ability to control their weight, but elect not to do so. The word "disease" has typically been associated with illnesses that are considered to be contracted through no fault of the sufferer: Parkinson's and Alzheimer's Disease are prime examples. To classify as disease the inability to push oneself away from the table and to fail to educate oneself as to healthful eating drives a further nail into the coffin of personal responsibility. 
	There are my argumentative opinions that show each of two opinions antagonistically increase conflict between a choice and a disease. However, Obesity is more considered as a choice than a disease and it is a choice. Therefore, as far as the issue's topic is concerned, the obesity is addressed to a choice. Becoming a state of being an obese is a personal option due to regretful choices from the unhealthy eating habit, insufficient amount of physical activity, and personal choices. Even though, there are many possibilities obesity is caused by disease, many scholars and authors who are on the side of agreeing upon the issue that obesity is a disease are approaching to the issue very incorrectly since obesity is initially caused by poor choices on the diet and the exercise. These two incompatible opinions are very controversial and competitive to tell whether which one is correct or not. In conclusion, the obesity is a choice, resulting from poor choices. Many scholars and authors who are on the side of agreeing upon the issue that obesity is a disease are approaching to the issue very incorrectly since obesity is initially caused by poor choices on the diet and the exercise. Therefore, obesity is a choice since the causes of obesity are directly connected to how each individual makes their choices on the diet and amount of exercise even though it is from the genetic problem. 
