December 12, 2015 
Dose Blades postponed the process of democratization of China 
When it comes to Blades also named Jin Yi Wei, which is a spy agency in Ming Dynasty in ancient China, many people are unfamiliar with this topic. But for those who has some basic knowledge of history should know Ming Dynasty in ancient China, which is a specific time period AD 1368-1644 leading ancient China from a powerful country to a behindhand state later. Blades is an important factor during this progress. In this research paper, I will first give a brief introduction of Blades, then talk about in detail of what Blades did in Ming Dynasty. In the end, I will draw a conclusion about the history impact that Blades left on China. From my perspective, Blades postponed the process of democratization of China. 
According to Yuan Tengfei, a history professor in China Capital Normal University, democratization is the process for a country or a state to transfer from one regime to a democratic regime. This process is a long lasting progress and it may happen in different areas, for example, it can reflect a country's politics, economy and social culture. Usually, in the end, for most of the citizens, they have the rights to vote for their own governors. (Yuan, 207) So, why do Blades postponed the process of China's democratization? 
Blades is a spy agency in Ming Dynasty, and there was no organization like that in previous dynasties, therefore, first we need to know how Blades came into history because only do we solve this question first will we know the structure of Blades and learn more about why Blades is so special compared to other government organizations in ancient China. According to Gao Xi, a Chinese history scholar, "Blades was first set up by Emperor Zhu Yuanzhang when he was king of Wu State (AD: 1361-1368)." (Gao Xi). At that time, China was divided into different kingdoms and Blades initially acted just like one of other militaries in Wu Sate. After Zhu Yuanzhang unified the whole country and became the first emperor of Ming Dynasty, the country became relatively stable and the martial use of Blades seemed out of date. So he changed the Blades system and Blades was not a military organization anymore. However, the function of Blades was not obviously defined until the event of Hu Weiyong came up. In 1380, Zhu Yuanzhang thought that Hu, who was the last minister (the most important governor only below the emperor and governs other governors) in ancient China history, had an incentive to rebel. To help collect the evidence that Hu was not loyal anymore, Zhu required Blades to detect Hu's daily life without his consciousness. In the end, with Blades' huge contribution, Hu Weiyong was killed by emperor Zhu, and Blades formally became a spy agency. "In fact, Blades started coming into history after Hu Weiyong's event." (<name>. Personal Interview, 1, November, 2015). 
It is obvious that Blades was a military organization at first to meet the requirement during war-time before Ming Dynasty set up and later turned into a spy agency. But how it comes that a military organization turned to a spy agency? This is important to know because Blades acted as a spy agency for most of its life and with its function damaged the process of democratization for China. If you look back to ancient China history, you will find a trend that the emperor's power was always enhancing. Although, emperors had a lot of power, they were still restricted by some factors. For example, they needed to follow good suggestions through central government officials. Their power were supervised by the imperial minister. However, when it came to Ming Dynasty, the emperor was not satisfied with the existing power he had, which means he wanted to get more power, so Zhu Yuanzhang wanted to ban the Minister System thus no one could contend against him. But it was not a simple matter. So he utilized Blades, which was directly responsible for the emperor, to detect imperial minister and other officials who had a potential to threat Zhu's power. As Hu Weiyong's event came out, Zhu got the chance to ban the minister system which had lasted more than 1300 years through ancient China's history. "Zhu totally killed more than 200 thousands government officials with contributions of Blades. (Xiao Lijun)" As a result, the balance between minister and emperor was destroyed and this limited China to develop to a democratic state because no one could supervise the emperor any longer and the emperor was above the law since that. So Blades postponed the process of China's democratization. 
After Hu's event, Blades totally became a tool for the emperor to eradicate those who might potentially threatened Zhu's power. Since Blades was directly responsible for the emperor, it had the power sometimes over the law. In other words, Blades had the power to kill those government officials when necessary and then respond to the emperor. According to <name>, this left really bad influence on the process of ancient China. Now, the emperor had unlimited power, as most of previous dynasties, when no one could threat emperor's power, the dynasty usually went to die soon. However, things were different in Ming Dynasty because emperor enhanced their power at the beginning of the Dynasty but was still lasted for nearly 300 years. "Because Zhu destroyed the old system at the beginning of the empire, there were fewer obstacles that government officials would rebel since most of the potential officials had been killed." (<name>. Personal Interview, 1, November, 2015) 
The expense is that the expansion of Blades restricted the potential democratic reform as a consequence. At that time, the middle class in China was becoming stronger with the development of economy. At the same time, some western countries were conducting their democratic reform and became democratic countries. For example, UK conducted its democratic reform from 1640 to 1688 and become a constitutional monarchy state, which is a kind of democratic mode. Compared to Western Countries, China missed the chance to convert from a feudalism state to a capitalism state. Instead, China just enhanced its initial feudalism system. According to Professor Deng Zijie, "it is not a coincidence that if there was no Blades, China would go to the democratic way." (Deng Zijie). As a result, no one had the power or even incentive to rebel till the midterm (Around 1500 AD) of Ming Dynasty. 
As Blades became a relatively powerful spy agency, they got trust from the emperor, which let the spy agency became even more arrogant and domineering. Although the position of Blades belonged to third class (There are seven level of positions) in Ming Dynasties, those who had a higher position were afraid of Blades. Therefore, to prevent from being detected, corruption arose. It is estimated that, until the midterm of Ming Dynasty (Around 1500 AD), more than three fourth of the central government officials offered bribe to Blades to avoid being detected (Yuan, 321). Those huge funds used in corruption enhanced the poverty and instability of local areas in China, leading to the unexpected peasant uprising in 1644. As the last emperor committed suicide when the head of the peasants rushed into the palace, Ming Dynasty came to an end. 
In conclusion, Blades is a special spy agency in Ming Dynasty. This agency had dramatic power when it first came into historical stage. Their initial function was to stand guard for emperor conducted by military and their function changed a lot during Hu Weiyong's event and finally became a spy agency. For most of its life, Blades was a tool for emperors to enhance their own power, leading China enhanced its initial autocratic system. As numerous western states like UK and France conducted democratic reforms during 16 to 18 centuries, China missed the chance to turn from a feudalism state to a democratic state. Therefore, I think Blades postponed the process of China's democratization. 
Reference: 
1 Deng, Zijie. "An Analysis of Chang Wei System". Tianshui Daily Journal 6th edition. Wang, Shaohong. Tianshui. 2008. 1-7. Print 
2 Gao, Xi. "Blades of Ming Dynasty". Archive and Society 3rd edition. Wang, Zhao. Guangdong. 2010. 1-3. Print 
3 <name>. Personal interview. 10, November 2015. 
4 Xiao, Lijun. "The change of function of Blades". Tianjin Normal Journal 6th edition. Liu, Zizhen. Tianjin. 2000. 1-5. Print 
