Argument Paper 
4/13/2016 
The Dependency of Korean Economy on Conglomerates 
	In the previous paper it has been stated that there is no monopoly in the Korean economy but it was also proven that the economy heavily depends on the conglomerates. It was quite obvious why Korea had no choice but to rely on the conglomerates instead of forming a reliable income source however, is it evident how bad the economy is relying on the conglomerates? There are multiple data sources that prove that the Korean economy is relying on these conglomerates too much: the distribution of income, the population hired by these conglomerates, and their income compared to the national income. 
	Korea had good reasons to rely on these conglomerates as Korea itself has nothing to export. The natural resources are poor as well as tourism. The regions are mountainous for agriculture and the land too small to do anything. In such environment, the formation of chaebols conglomerates could have been the best choice or was it? Now Korea has grown overly attached to these conglomerates. With such dependency, some sort of internal change was destined to happen. The first thing that was easy to spot was the distribution of income. With conglomerates being the base of the economy, it is quite obvious that anyone working for these conglomerates would be in a better spot than others who are not. In a small land with 50. 22 mil people from 2013 according to Google and few conglomerates to compete to get hired, the wealth distribution is dramatic. By 1992 standard, top 10% of the population takes more than 40% of total income, top 5% of the population takes more than 30%, and the top 1% takes 14.2% of wealth Leipziger. 1992. P. 57. From a more recent source of information, the top 10 per cent of the population possessed 46 per cent of the country's total wealth. The bottom 50 per cent possessed only 9. 5 per cent Koo, Hagen. 2014. Paragraph 9. Such difference of income is almost unacceptable. Of course, there will be few in the upper limit that makes far more money than others but this almost makes it seems like people in the lower half are doing nothing to get money. 
	The inequality of distribution of wealth seems evident then how much of the population do these conglomerates feed or hire? In 2010, 9 conglomerates employed total of 757634 people accounting for approximately 1.51% of the national population Hubpages. 2015. Chart. Does this seem much? No it does not at all. In fact, it almost seems like the effect of the conglomerates quite menial with such low number as 1.51%. Let's put some other factors in to the calculation. Assume each employees support a family of 4. That is a little over 6% of the total population. Take other conglomerates that was not mentioned in the above information; that will make up may be 7% of the population. 7% of the population fed by less than 20 conglomerates. If companies that are under these conglomerates were to be added, it will easily make up 10% of the population. That is quite a lot considering how few companies are feeding 10% of the national population. Still, the numbers presented here does not seem very relevant to how 10% of the population makes 46% of total income. After all, the actually working population of these conglomerates are maybe higher than 2% of the total population. Well here is some information that allows everything to make sense. In 2010, 5 conglomerates Samsung, Hyundai Motors, Lotte, SK, and LG accounted for 55.7% of Korea's GDP Global Sherpa. Date not found. Paragraph 5. That is 5 conglomerates making up more than half of the country's wealth. Account other conglomerates that was mentioned above and it would easily make more than 70% of the country's wealth. With the conglomerates employing around 2% of population while making more than 50% of the nation's wealth, it is safe to assume that these 2% are definitely included in the top 10% that makes 46% of the total income. 
	From the data above, I claim that Korea's economy is too dependent to the conglomerates. As proof, the conglomerates makes more than 50% of the total income while employing only about 2% of the total population. Such concentration of monetary flow cannot be seen as good. Even today as Korean myself, I see this issue getting more and more evident as time flows. The few who are employed by the conglomerates are the only ones who can live a stable life while others can only dream. As a joke, people say "getting in to the conglomerates is a job itself" or "Buying a house for oneself is a dream that can only be fulfilled by ones hired by the conglomerates". This is an issue that has be pointed out and should be solved within the nearest time possible. 
Reference 
	Leipzeiger, D. M., Dollar, D., Shorrocks, A. F., Song, S. Y., The Distribution of Wealth and Income in Korea. Retrieved from http://agris.fao.org/agris-search/search.do?record ID=US2012400395 
	Koo, H. 2014 July 1st. Inequality In South Korea. Retrieved from http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2014/07/01/inequality-in-south-korea/ 
	Hub Pages. 2015 September 5th. Younger Generation and Graduates in South Korea prefer to work in South Korean Conglomerate Companies. Retrieved from http://hubpages.com/business/Graduates-in-South-Korea-only-want-to-work-in-South-Korean-Conglomerate-Companies 
	Global Sherpa. Date not found. Korea - Country Profile, News and Original Articles. Retrieved from http://globalsherpa.org/korea-south-north/ 
