P5D3 
04/18/2016 
The relationship between commercial movies and marketing 
Nowadays, many movies with small investment generate large profits, however, there are quantity number of big investment's movies bomb at the box office. So, some people think that modern movie box office has already been out of control for hardly predicting which one will earn the largest budget. But, I think quality of the movie itself is important to decide the box office's tendency. And there are three ways to decide that movie makes money or not: shooting with a great script, promoting in a smart way and inventing impress directors and well-known actors or actress 
First, as countless movies have been produced, audiences now are only watching the movie with good quality. Good movie with higher reputation can break the boundary of the taste of different audience. In the recent years, the demand, the audiences of single type movie, turns into a fixed population; but the supply, the analogous movies, has a significant increasing of number. When supply is far more than demand, it will cause an unbalance of the supply chain which named by surplus. Plenty of awful movies that have high box office with lower reputation will decrease the interesting of audience, especially the new audience who is not familiar with these movies. Mr. Valenti wrote it on his book: "It is a fact, blessedly confirmed, that the American movie is affectionately received by audiences of all races, cultures and creeds on all continents; amid turmoil and stress as well as hope and promise. This isn't happenstance. It is the confluence of creative reach, story telling skill, decision making by top studio executives and the interlocking exertions of distribution and marketing artisans." (Jack, 1998) So more amazing commercial movies will give those audiences good impress and maybe next time they will come back to watch the movie that has affinity type. 
Next, smart promotion will attracts more people from all over the world via television and the Internet. Once the promotion is succeed in catching people's eyeballs, and more people know what is the movie looks likes, they will be willing to pay for it. Dave, a website journalist, wrote, "The movie business is cyclical and seasonal by nature. Major studio releases are clustered during the summer, Christmas and long holiday weekends like Thanksgiving, Memorial Day and Labor Day. With so many high profile movies fighting for the same audience, movie marketers need to figure out how to make their films stand out from the pack". (Dave, 2010) To put trailers on the Internet and hold castings' meet-and-greet is important for attaching new audience. For example, when someone who is not a fan of this type of movie browses the web pages or watching TV, she or he will mention the general information of it, and they will become the potential target. And this journal also wrote: "Every movie is different and the promotions department must figure out what type of campaign will be the most effective at reaching the target audience. This requires researching the tastes and media-consuming trends of the target audience. Based on this research, the movie marketers decide how much of their budget to spend on each different media outlet."(Dave, 2010) 
The last one is great combination of art directors and commercial movie actors and actress is an advertising way to sale the movie to public. Famous art directors have their own reputation before shoot this commercial movie, people always have an expectations of their movie; and the attendances of those celebrities, who have a considerable amount of fans and excellent acting skill, like Leonard Di Caprio, and Tom Cruise, are the promise of movie quality. And this movie will have more possibility of success. 
However, there are some opposed voices against my thoughts. Movie critics think that more movies have been produced, more random chance to win the impressive revenue. But when I interviewed <name>, Purdue University's economy professor, she said that is price discrimination: If marketing has unbalanced situation for a long time, the marketing will adjust itself and eliminate the company, so that will cost a huge loss movie for many movie companies and studios than just one fabulous. 
And movie critics also refute that the cost of seeking out the next target of making money is risk. The previous types of movies are hardly failed dramatically until the quality of supply is more than the equilibrium. On the contrary, attempting shooting new pattern of movies has higher chance that comes to nothing. Movie company is not likely to try something really new unless it has a great potential to attract audience or achieving success. However, if the company really wants to earn big money and do a long-run business, it is not suitable at all that just afraid of trying; and audiences will not spend two hours on the movie that similar to the last movie they watched. For example, Marvel Studio has failed many times with losing nearly total assets before the huge success of Iron Man. But when they prepare an interesting script and invite Robert Downey Jr. as the hero, they made it. And after this successful trail of superhero movie, countless money came to the Marvel Studio. 
In conclusion, the overall quality of movies influence the box offices in a large extend. The script and the promotion of the movies, the casting and directing of the movies are the key factor of improving the quality of movies. 
Reference List 
Dave, R. (2010). How Movie Marketing Works, 
http://entertainment.howstuffworks.com/movie-marketing.htm 
Stanley, R. (2003). Hollywood, Globalization and Film markets in Asia: Lessons For 
China.http://isites.harvard.edu/fs/docs/icb.topic152447.files/rosen_Hollywood.pdf, 
