The beneficial aspects of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is an anxiety disorder which affecting two to three percent of people all over the world. OCD can be briefly defined as "A process of intensive worry followed by compulsive rituals or behaviors." Commonly, OCD patients are used to doing such repetitive behaviors as checking whether the stove is turned off or the door is locked. Unwanted thoughts, fears and worries are some symptoms of obsession. OCD results from both biological basis and environmental issues. The public disgust some symptoms of OCD patients, because they think they are strange. In order to explain some beneficial aspects of OCD, I will analyze the origination of OCD, the survival advantage of OCD and how could it improve the quality of people's daily life. 
First, OCD stems from a positive origination. Those who ostracize OCD patients consider OCD is totally a mental illness, however, it actually has some benefits. Most human beings have the ability of noticing risk factors subconsciously, which is an over-activity area of the brain. Thus, this certain area results in obsessions and compulsions. (Riadh, et. al. 1998) To be more precise, obsessions are ancient, repetitive and irksome phenomena, which people do them involuntarily. For this reason, people generate risk scenarios which they intend to avoid. In other words, people have the capability of identifying the risks in daily life and they want to prevent them happening. With this process, people could avoid harm without experiencing it. From what I have mentioned above, it indicates that OCD has a positive origination that is a risk avoidance process. 
Not only OCD originates from a positive process, but only OCD benefits to people's survival. For example, there were two cavemen called Bernie and Charlie. In fact, Bernie was an OCD patient while Charlie was not. When they slept, Charlie was afraid of nothing and was so relaxed. However, Bernie was worried about lots of things, such as whether there would be bugs, snakes and tigers. So he slept inside the cave where he could listen to Charlie's scream in case he would in danger. (Fredric, 2012) In my opinion, when people are not at a place that is safe enough, they should have the intention to avoid danger. Due to Bernie's OCD, he noticed a lot. He and his friend would be less dangerous to some extent. That is to say, Bernie had the consciousness to avoid risks, but Charlie who was a relaxed person did not. What's more, Edna, who was Bernie's cousin, was a cavewoman with OCD. When she was pregnant, she washed her hands quite often. She did know the mold which would do harm to her body though she knew nothing about germs. Edna always stayed away from sick people and the smoke. She never drank berry juice and took drugs. Last but not least, Edna had an extremely healthy diet. If she had some worry about the food, she would let the dog had a try first. Because of Edna's OCD symptoms, she was the only person who had more than three children in the tribe and raised them healthily. From the experience of Bernie and Edna, we can conclude that in some situations, people with some symptoms of OCD which can make them have a survival advantage. 
Although OCD patients have a survival advantage, people disgust some symptoms of OCD patients, like making materials extremely tidy and clean. However, in my view, some stigma of people with OCD can improve the quality of people's daily life. Suppose a person has OCD, to visit his home, the bed is made tidy, the plates are washed shiny, the floor is mopped clean, the books are arranged aligned. The visitor will have a good mood by visiting this beautiful house. Therefore, the person who has OCD will leave a perfect impression on the visitor. Moreover, if a student has a little OCD, he will be used to checking carefully whether he has already done homework everyday and make up study materials for next day's courses. Hence, he will be less likely to make such mistakes like forgetting to do homework or to bring essential study materials to class. During my interview with Dr. Eiler, who is a staff therapist at PUSH, she said that "A little OCD could make people focused. Many successful people have a little OCD." OCD can be considered as a continuum, ranging from mild to severe. If people have mild OCD, they could take advantage of the benefits of OCD, like perfectionism, carefulness and tidiness to improve the quality of study and daily life. OCD is not a totally harmful disorder, if people have a little OCD, they have some stigma which can increase the quality of daily life. 
In conclusion, OCD originates from a risk avoidance process, OCD patients have a survival advantage and a little OCD could make people focused which could improve people's daily life. Although OCD is a mental illness, the public should be also educated to pay attention to the beneficial aspects of OCD. 
