Is Speech Recognition the next big thing? / Draft 1 
Friday, April 1, 2016 
'Intelligent Voice Recognition Systems' - the next big step towards an intelligent society 
	Innovation has always been the key to mankind's evolution. Throughout ages innovators have aimed at developing technologies to better human lives. The calculator marked the first big step from the previous century into the current technological era. So which technology will take us further in scientific advancements? Will it be self driven cars, drones, nanotechnology or Artificial Intelligence in the area of Voice recognition? A lot of research, effort and money goes into the development of a technology. Scientists and Engineers have to work day and night to convert an idea into an innovation. Millions of dollars are spent in the research and creation of a technology. Thus it becomes important for us to discuss this issue at hand so that we invest our money and time in the most fruitful direction. 
But before we go ahead, let us understand how voice recognition works. Like every other technology, speech recognition is also inspired by how the human body comprehends speech. A voice interpreter absorbs phones which are waves of energy created through a noise source and converts it into machine language. Once the signals are converted into compliable machine instructions, the interpreter compares the input with it's pre loaded memory of basic communication analogs and performs the required instructions. SIRI, Google voice are advanced voice interpreters which work on the same principle. All these voice interpreters are commonly refereed to as ASR'S (Automatic Speech recognition systems). 
ASR's have the capability to provide a bridge between technology and social problems. All the sophisticated technologies that we use have never been very useful for solving social issues. Voice recognition will be able to solve lot of problems related to communication gaps and security. ASR can prove to be very beneficial especially for the blind people. Speech recognition will allow personal expression for the visually impaired through dictation. It will also give them the power to carry out computer applicable tasks just by communicating with the machine. With the evolution of the ASR headset, blind people will always have an intelligent software supporting them in whatever they do and wherever they go. 
Currently scientists are working on creating a universal voice translator that has the capability to convert any language into machine language and thus with the evolution of multi-language voice processors, speech translators will become widespread. This translator will bring about a revolutionary approach in solving communication gaps. People who speak different languages will be able to understand each other using this technology. This will also help in removing the language barrier across the globe and thus will bring humans closer to each other. 
Security has always been an issue for the technological industry. Voice recognition can also play a major role in improving privacy issues. Using complex speech recognition algorithms, a machine will be able to differentiate between two voices. Since no two people can produce the same sound, ASR's can be used in security to help maintain a person's identity. 
Above all, ASR technology provides us the freedom of combination. Voice recognition can be used along any technology to improve its accessibility and efficiency. As of now, voice recognition is only used in smartphones and smart televisions. But we have only experienced the tip of the iceberg in term's of ASR's full potential. It has seen amazing technological advancement in the past years and even now it is growing at a phenomenal rate ASR systems have a huge application in the future. ASR's will soon be ubiquitous - used across the world in every household. Voice will become the primary source of our interaction with things. All the technology that we use in our day to day life will become accessible by communication. With more and more advancements in voice recognition software, we will be able to save tons of money and time by improving the efficiency of the present age machines. 	None of the promising technologies such as Self driven cars, 3D printers aim at solving a problem in the society. They are high tech instruments that will never prove to be very useful for the common public. They may appear as a more fascinating technology, but their use is specific to their domain and cannot be combined with any other technology. 
The most important factor in considering the growth of a technology is to understand the investment it requires. ASR's and voice recognition software's are very affordable technologies. According to a statistics released by the Washington post, installing a new voice interpreter in a machine costs as low as $39.87. The creation of technologies such as drones, robots, 3D printers and anything under nanotechnology takes thousands of dollars and can only be manufactured by tech giants such as google, apple. In another statistic released by Tech Crunch (an online trustworthy technology website) the production of gadgets such as smart watches, 3D printers, self driven cars, drones require excess use of natural resources. ASR is a software and requires minimal amount of resources for it's production. All these factors make ASR a reasonable and eco-friendly technology. 
All the above mentioned factors add up to create one large picture about the benefits of Voice recognition software's. Voice recognition has seen remarkable developments in solving issues related to security, machine efficiency and artificial intelligence in the last decade and it still has a long way to go. Modern age technology is swarmed with voice interpreters and the use of speech recognition. According to a research published by Tech Crunch, related to the use of technological gadgets in a person's day to day life, speech recognition was the most popular software used by almost 44% of the sample space. Companies such as Amazon, Google, Apple have already invested millions of dollars to sponsor research in the area of ASR systems. Due to it's numerous benefits and it's ease of access, Voice recognition system will be the next big step towards an intelligent society. 
