November 29, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Draft #2 
Education System 
With the dramatic changes over the few decades, overall world's culture seems to put more and more emphasis on the education system. People started to acknowledge the discrepancies between the different countries' education systems and started to rank the education system. Apparently, one study says that South Korea has always been ranked high in this, but the United States has been ranked average while the other study claims that the United States education is further improved than South Korean education. This essay will look at both sides of the argument. Then, it will explain how the United States education system is better than South Korean education in terms of efficiency because of the freedom of using the spare time, the variety fields of study that students can pick from, and the qualified education students can get from the United States colleges. 
The first aspect to point out is that the United States students have more freedom to use their spare time than the South Korean students. This simply means that the students in the United States is more freely involved in the extra activities, such as sports, music, and volunteer works. For example, a lot of students in the United States like to play variety of sports. On the other hand, the Korean students hardly spend any time in those activities. <position> <name>, with whom I interviewed, would agree with this statement. <name> said that, "In the past, Korean students were barely involved into any activities. The students back then thought that the extra activities were unnecessary." He experienced both of the Korean and US education. Therefore, he fully understands the differences between two education systems. He thinks that this is the reason why the Korean students used to have less freedom to use their spare time than the American students. 
On the other hand, some might argue that the Korean education system is more effective than the United States education based on the world education system rankings. Nonetheless, this is not necessarily true. Although the scores of the South Korean students may be higher than the scores of the United States students, a lot of students in Korea lack in their creativities. For example, according to my interviewee, <position> <name>, there is a main shortcoming in the South Korean education system. He said that the main shortcoming is the style of teaching by rote. Teaching by rote is not an effective way of studying because the students with this kind of style may do well on the test, but it is easy for them to forget the context after a while. On the other hand, the students who actually think through the context and study it will have a long-term memory. Therefore, the Unites States education style is much more effective than the South Korean education style. 
The last aspect to point out is that the United States students are almost guaranteed to achieve a qualified education from the colleges. The United States colleges have a high quality of education. As mentioned above in this essay, the United States has far more world class university programs than South Korea. For example, in the article, "An American Imperative: Public Education," Resnick stated that the American education is well adapted to the changing world. It is one of the most important things that even the education system is changing along the culture. If either one cannot keep up with the other one, the discrepancy can be made and eventually the education system will be in no more use. Therefore, because the United States education is keeping up with the culture, the United States students are guaranteed to receive a qualified education from the colleges. 
From these three arguments, one could conclude that the United State education system is better than South Korean education in terms of efficiency because of the freedom of using the spare time, the variety fields of study that students can pick from, and the qualified education students can get from the United States colleges. Nevertheless, while talking about the education system, it is kind of pointless to say that one is better than the other because one can adapt the better aspect from the other one and it will even make a better combination of two. 
