Argumentative Essay Assignment 
Preparation Against the Overwhelming Negative Consequences of Future 3-D Printing Development 
Imagine the world where anyone could print anything they desire with ease in their own homes. This future world is getting closer to us. A breakthrough in 3-D printing had allowed organic and inorganic synthesis by printing reagents into a digital controlled 3-D reaction matrix Symes, et al., 2012, Abstract. This advancement shows that 3-D printer developments lead to the capability to synthesize complex molecular structure from simpler ones. Following this trend of progress, I presume, 3-D printers will be able to synthesize complex structure from the very basic - atoms. <name>, <position>, who oversees the 3-D printing laboratory in KNOY 155, also considered that it would be possibility 50 until 100 years later personal communication, October 29, 2015. If that happens, everything can be printed by 3D printers. The sole boundary for 3-D printing will be space, where the object printed cannot be bigger than the printing area and the 3-D printer's three dimensional maximum capacity. 
However, while the 3-D printing technology may seem easing our life, I realized that this easiness may also bring misfortune to us if misused. For instance, in May 2013, a Texas organization announced that it had designed and fired a plastic gun that could be assembled using a 3-D printer Erhenfreund, 2013, para. 1. This occurrence may harm US residents' security. From another view, the ability to print everything we desire will open the possibility of recreating a copyrighted product. Of course, this conduct will incur loses to the rightful owner. The dark side of future 3-D printing developments made me realized that the US government should take perceptive action immediately. For sure, the users themselves are responsible for their misconduct in using 3-D printers, but just as overcoming criminality, the US government should also partake in dealing with these problems. These problems has led me to contend that US government should approve every future 3-D printing blueprints to maintain public security and to protect products copyrights. US government analyzing every 3-D printing blueprints to approve through a web-based platform is the best way to minimize 3-D printing abuse because of the overwhelming odds of the future 3-D printing developments, because 3-D printing blueprints is the only thing that may be controlled before printing, and because it additionally universalize the 3-D printing designs sharing. 
First of all, I would like to illustrate my depiction of the approving system. For now, a user will need a computer-aided design CAD when commanding the printer to print. With this system, users will not be able to print unapproved CADs. How does that work? In this web-based platform created by the government, users will be able to request for approval from the US government, or download approved CADs. For this to come true, the government will have to build a board so that every 3-D printers should be registered to this board to make sure that every 3-D printers are mounted with the system to block unapproved CADs. 
In response to my argument, some may think that government will need a lot of time to analyze the CADs, and the system will complicates users in printing. For the "waste of time" issue, <name>, the one who approve printed blueprints history in the <place> computer lab said himself that analyzing the function of a 3-D blueprint needs detailed observation. He gave an example that a 3-D printed gun for theatrical property and 3-D printed real gun may has the same exact shape personal communication, October 29, 2015. While for the "complicates users" part, users trying to print new design will be imposed to wait for approval. That means, this policy will be a threat for prototyping groups who need 3-D printers for product development. But, in this case, the government has the possibility to give exception and release a license to be excluded from this system. For users using 3-D printer for daily easiness, this system will not be a problem because they will use the already approved designs made by others. I do agree that these points are the feebleness of the idea to approve every 3-D printing CADs, but I am still certain that it would be a better outcome for the sake of public security and copyrights protection. 
As I described earlier, the future 3-D printing development is an overwhelming odds to public security and copyrighted products. This came from the possibility of being able to print everything. Aside from printing guns, if the future 3-D printer abilities allows the printing of deadlier weapons such as nuclear weapons, controlling CADs will be a more important task to do by the government. 
Furthermore, CADs itself is the only point where government can control 3-D printing activity. Certainly, there is no way for the government to monitor the process of making CADs; and beyond CADs, it is the printing step. 
Besides that, the web-based platform will universalize the 3-D printing world. People can share their designs and even put copyright on it. It would even triggers the emergence of a new profession, a 3-D printing blueprint designer, where they live by making CADs. When requesting for approval from the government, they can set the price for users to download their designs. 
I would like to conclude that US government should approve every future 3-D printing designs through a universalized web-based platform because of the overwhelming capabilities of future 3-D printers, because CADs is the only point that can be controlled by the government, and because it universalize the 3-D printer blueprints sharing. If the US government does not act and respond to this case with bold moves, it will be overwhelmed by the gravity of 3-D printing development. The greater 3-D printer can be, the greater potential dangerous and hazardous objects are to be made. As I has mentioned, the idea of approving every 3-D printing activity is still impotent, as it needs a lot of time to analyze the CAD design. That is why, I would like to urge readers to a better system for approving these blueprints. I also considered using artificial intelligence to filter and approve these CADs, where the some CADs may be automatically approved, and unidentified classification will be approved manually; But, I am not that knowledgeable about its success prospect. If the system in the United States goes well, it may be a model for other countries. Then, there would be a possibility to universalize the global 3-D CADs web-based platform controlled by the world government. 
