P5D1 
April 12, 2015 
Should we stop listening to songs with bad words? 
	People listen to music every day. When they wake up, eat, take a shower, drive, and even work, they listen to music. Therefore, young children to old men, everyone is living life with music. And, there are various types of music with different lyrics. Since music is deeply related to people's everyday life, there has been a controversy whether songs should have bad words in them for generations. However, I think one can definitely listen to music that has bad words in it because of the following three main reasons. First, benefits of music are just tremendous. Second, just because a song has bad words in it, it does not automatically make the song bad. Last, banning a bad word in a song violates freedom of expression of artists or musicians and limits their creativity. 
	First of all, the reason why I claim that one can listen to music with any lyric is music has a wide variety of benefits regardless of bad words. People usually think that music has positive effects on their mental health. However, it impacts positively on physical health as well. An article, "Major health benefits of music uncovered"1, written by a team led by Prof. Daniel J. Levitin of Mc Gill University has shown that music is found both to improve the body's immune system function and to reduce stress. Furthermore, the professor proves that music increases the number of both immunoglobulin A, which is an antibody that plays a significant role in immunity of mucous system, and natural killer cell, the cell that attacks invading germs and bacteria. The other article, "Effects of music training on the child's brain and cognitive development"2, written by Gottfried Schlaug, Andrea Norton, and Katie Overy, focuses on the invisible benefits of music on children. In the process of the research, they conduct a longitudinal study comparing 50 students taking music lessons and 25 students not taking music lessons to look into whether there is any difference in brain structure, function or cognitive skills in children who are practicing musical instruments compared to those who are not. And, the results show that children with the music training improved fine motor skills, melodic discrimination skills, and memory skills. These evidences show that benefits of music are tremendous and far outweigh drawbacks of music with bad lyrics. Therefore, one can definitely listen to any music regardless of bad words. 
	Secondly, just because there is a curse word in a song, it does not automatically make the song bad. Sometimes a "bad" word is the best way to express one's feelings in the song. Few years ago, in South Korea, a ridiculous event like this happened. There was a great pop song which had a beautiful melodic line and was highly acclaimed by experts in music field. One day, a censorship by Korean government banned people under age 19 from hearing the song just because the song has a single curse word in it. People felt anger about this and asked for a change of the determination. Yet, the government did not reverse the decision. I think this happening clearly show why the idea that because there is a curse word in a song, it makes the song bad is absurd. And, the idea is such an outdated concept. Curse words are also words. So, they could be used to portray one's anger, bitterness, or hurt. And, if the bad words in a song make a person unpleasant, then, he or she can choose to stop listening to the song. For these reasons, I think a song can contain bad words in it if necessary and the idea of banning a song because of a curse word is very unreasonable. 
	The last reason why I think one can listen to whatever he or she wants is banning a bad word in songs violates freedom of expression of artists or musicians and limits their creativity. According to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights3, "freedom of expression is the right of every individual to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers." Basically, if someone prevents someone else from expressing his or her opinion, that is against the freedom of expression. Also, banning bad words in a song limits artists or musicians' creativity. James Daly who was a famous American theater, film and television actor once stated "You cannot suppress creativity, you cannot suppress innovation." In order for artists to be the most creative, there should not be any disturbance or interference which limits them. Look at the example of Pable Picasso. He remains as the best creative artist ever because when he drew, he was no under suppression. Therefore, I argue that banning a bad word in a song limits artists' pure creativity. 
	One can assert a song should not have bad words in it because if a young child listened to a song with bad words, it could poison a child's mind. I agree with this opinion. Bad words in a song can have negative impacts on children's mind. However, if someone does not want his or her children to listen to music with bad words in it, it is his or her responsibility to keep it away from children. Just because bad words can negatively impact young children, suppression of expression cannot be justified. 
	In conclusion, if someone asks "Should we stop listening to songs with bad words?" I will say "No." There are so many positive effects of music. And, just because there is a curse word in a song, it does not automatically make the song bad and delete all the positive effects. Curse words are also words. We should respect artists or musicians and the expression of their works even if the song contains curse words in it. 
1 http://www.mcgill.ca/newsroom/channels/news/major-health-benefits-music-uncovered-225589 
2 http://www.musicianbrain.com/papers/Schlaug_Music_Child_Brain_NYAS2005.pdf 
3 https://freedomhouse.org/issues/freedom-expression#.VSr Kb Pn F9y Y 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
