Drones should not be Regulated 
	These day aircraft used in many different areas. For example, helicopter cameras (heli cams), this is taking a video from the top. This machine brought to high quality in broadcasting industries. This machine was militarized in Air Forces too. They made drones which is airplanes that fly without pilot. Pilot just control the airplane on the ground. The United States Air Forces use this machine to against the enemies. They made drones as a fighter jet. These fighter jets do their mission without a pilot. Pilots do not have to worry about being in danger; however, this drone can be invade privacy. Drones able to take a video from any angles, but the big problems is they can take a video of another person's house. It will have problem on invasion of privacy. Becoming drones as fighter jets is not following safety procedures. We cannot let the planes fly without pilots. The pilot should always stay in aircraft because they can control airplane in emergency. I think we need special rules or laws for Drones because can lead to invasion of privacy . 
	Drones can be unknown aircraft. It will be interrupt private pilots. The aircrafts with pilot fly with under Visual Flight Rules (VFR) and flight plan, but drones does not fly with any flight plan and they are not even fly based on VFR. Drones will appear with unnamed on the normal aircraft radar. There are possibilities that aircrafts can hit drones during flight. 
	Many of helicopter cameras already commonly use in Korean broadcasting. They use helicopter cameras when they take a video of TV show because it can filming at any angles that cannot easily take a video. Any camera store or mechanical devices store such as Best Buy sell heli cams. Even in toy store sells heli cams. In John Doe's (2014), view worried that tiny drones can appear over his back yard and take pictures of his house every people able to easily buy heli cams anywhere, but this heli cams get in trouble because of invasion of privacy. For example, a person tries to play with heli cam at the his or her house of backyard. While they were playing with helicopter camera, the heli cam just gone to next house. They could take video of next house. They could see what the neighbors were doing with drones. Taking a video of another person is invasion of portrait right. I think drones should be regulate by government. All of the who trying to use drones, they have to get permission from government, so it can solve the problem 
	As drones militarized in United States Air Forces, They also use drones as fighter jet. It already passed the test and it already participated the Korean- US joint military training in 2013. Pilots control drones with computer on the ground. Pilots do not have to ride on the plane. Pilots do not have to get involve in to any dangerous situation in aircraft. It can bring better safety to pilots; however, this safety only occur to pilots. This safety does not belong to civilian. Even if the pilots ride on the normal plane, there are possibilities to get in emergency. It is true that many of aircrafts work with computer right now, but the pilots still always stay in side of cockpit because aircrafts can be broke unpredictably. Pilots stay with airplane because they able to cover emergency. For example, when the airplane had engine failure, people cannot expect where the aircraft will fall, but if the pilots are inside of the cockpit, the pilot could expect and control places to land safely even in emergency, so I think it is comfortable to have drones as commercial planes or fighter jet because pilot do not have to ride on the planes, but it is still dangerous maneuver without pilot. I think government should restrict using drones commercial plane or fighter jet 
	In John's (2014) view a private pilot will have harm affect because cas private pilots fly lower altitude, drones can reach that altitude, so small aircrafts crush the drones. All of the pilots should make a flight plan and they report to flight service station (FSS). The FSS keeps an watching on the pilots. FSS is one of the services that helps pilots during the flight. Pilots communicate with tower controller during the flight, but drones cannot make a flight plan or talking to tower controller. The Pilots cannot determine where the drones is. Even if aircrafts has traffic system, but that cannot catch up the drones because drone does not equipped that relates to traffic system. If drones equipped Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking system., drones cannot avoid the aircrafts, but at least pilots can avoid the drones. 
	In conclusion, many of drones are really comfortable our lives. Drones deliver objects to other person and take a video of hard angles. Drones are already commonly use in various categories. It is really useful, but there are still have problems. It can invade privacy because they can take a video of another person from long distance. It will have problem with Air Forces process because there are not any pilot inside of drones. If drones get into emergency, there is no people to follow the emergency procedures for drones. Many of drones can crush with other aircrafts because private pilot cannot catch up the drones during flight because they cannot make flight plans or communicate with tower controllers, so I think drones should restrict some process if people want to fly the drones. And every drones should require to equipped GPS. 
Reference 
Drones: The Good, the bad and the ugly. (n.d.). Retrieved December 3, 2014, from 	http://globalnews.ca/news/1003851/drones-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/ 
Drones: The good, the bad and the ugly - Air Facts Journal. (n.d.). Retrieved December 10, 2014, from 
	http://airfactsjournal.com/2013/08/drones-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/ 
Some Good Things Drones Can (Actually) Do. (n.d.). Retrieved December 3, 2014, from 	http://gizmodo.com/some-good-things-drones-can-actually-do-1475717696 
What are drones? (n.d.). Retrieved December 3, 2014, from 
	 http://dronewars.net/aboutdrone/ 
Zenko, M. (2012, March 1). Ten Things You Didn't Know About Drones. Retrieved December 3, 2014, from 
	 http://www.cfr.org/drones/ten-things-you-didnt-know-drones/p27497 
RUNUNG HEAD: DRONES SHOULD BE REGULATED 
