April 17, 2016 
The very first constructive criticisms that I received in this class - English 106i - was that I had to work in just one style of writing depending in my audience. Thus, if it is still a little difficult for me to stay in just on style of writing and not mix two of them, how would it be like for teenagers? At least I know the proper rules of grammar, but what about them? What will happen to kids with all this new way of writing that technology have brought - which in this paper I would like to called it informal writing. 
Through all the paper I will try and show the both sides I found on this topic. Some researchers have found that this new type of writing is affecting negatively kids' literacy, and others have found prove that is affecting them positively. Ultimately I am in favor of a new side - a neutral side, and that is because we have to start living with this new issues technology is throwing at us. It may be bad for kids, but also it has help them developing new skills. 
Before we go more into detail of how technology have alter teens' literacy, we have to understand what is literacy. In overall literacy is just the ability that someone posses to be able to read and write, but in this paper I want to introduce a new definition for this term. According to James Paul Gee in the article "What is Literacy" literacy is a mix of discourses, and discourse is described by him as an "identity kit" that comes with a certain way of thinking, speaking or writing (1). The different types of discourses are: primary discourse, the one that comes from home (5); secondary discourse, the one that comes from institutions, like school or college (5); dominant discourse, are secondary discourses that bring social goods (3); and non-dominant discourses, are secondary discourses that bring solidarity with a particular social network (6). We are only going to be focusing in secondary discourses; we want to know how social media is affecting teens' secondary discourse. 
Since social media has escalated worldwide we can se the parallel relation informal writing has with it. Some of the most popular forms of informal writing are: text messaging, textisms (such as: ppl for people or u for you), abbreviations (OMW, OMG, TGIF), or techspeak that is the adaptation of standard conventions of structure by deemphasizing proper punctuation and capitalization all in the interest of quickness. (Cingel & Sundar, 2012) Like using wud for would or gr8 instead of great. This is where the real concern about how is this new trend affecting teenagers secondary discourse. 
The concern is that this evolution of English is no longer used only in social media but they have found their way into the day to day use of writing among teens. There is much debate among parents and teachers of the effects this type of informal writing have on the grammar and writing skills of kids in the classrooms. Teens differ from adolescents or young adults in the way that these two last ones have already learned the proper grammar and writing skills in their younger years; teens are just being taught how to write properly. So, when there is an interaction between social media and teens there is this new type of slang that have found its way to the classrooms. 
In the results of the article "texting, techspeak, and tweens: the relationship between text messaging and English grammar skills" written by Cingel and Sundar they acclaimed that the study lend support to a general negative relationship between text messaging and teens grammar skills (1315). It seems that teens are not able to switch between writing informally and using the correct English grammar for formal writing. That is why they - Cingel and Sundar - state that they, teens, should be educated to understand the difference between the two (1317). 
After acknowledging the negative impact social media has on teens secondary discourse, we should observe what are some of the benefits it brings to their discourse. There has been demonstrated that the use of informal writing does not impact negatively teen's literacy and may even benefit their spelling attainment. This can be explained by authors Wood, Kemp and Waldron on their research paper "Exploring the longitudinal relationships between the use of grammar in text messaging and performance on grammatical task" when they give the explanation that many informal writings are phonetic, a direct correspondence between symbol and sounds, so that contributes with the phonological awareness and the phonological processing of the kids (416). This means that for teens is easy to remember the proper form of writing of a word because they associate the sound of the word with the correct symbols. 
The most common type of violations resides in the punctuation and capitalization following with missing words and the use of the unconventional orthographic forms. The first two are grammatical violations and the last one is a spelling violation. So, now the need is to differentiate between the deliberate violation and genuine lack of understanding. Thus, the real problems lay in the lack of understanding between the transition from informal to formal. 
After noticing the pros (spelling) and cons (grammar) about informal writing in teens, I want to expose another side of this dilemma. In the article "Twitteracy: Tweeting as a New Literacy Practice" written by authors Greenhow and Gleason, they believe 
that the use of social media bolster English Language Learning. They believe this because they found that students surveyed indicated that the social media can enhance their motivation to read in English. And that 68% indicated that it could improve their confidence to write in English (473). This is because the use of social media has incorporated a new type of literacy in the world and that is: New Literacies, that are the ones that are develop on the online spaces. This means that teens are motivated not to only read in English - by bloggers, that made use of the proper English writing skills - but also to write. This will make them practice more their English writing and grammatical skills so they wont be ashamed of posting "formal" reviews or posts, that will encourage the self-expression, playfulness, risk-taking and creativity skills of teens. 
As <name> expressed in her interview when kids find themselves in a situation where formal writing is required and they feel themselves in disadvantage, they would seek for help and try to improve their skills. This is what is happening to kid all around the world with the use of the social media. At first is a way they can be creative and start to learn a new slang and they incorporated in their day to day use of English, but later on, when they find their self in need to really learn they would seek for guidance. 
The use of this new type of informal writing has its cons and pros, but what we have to understand is that this is something that we wont be able to change. Technology, as well as, social media and informal writing will continue to grow all around the world and what people - teachers, parents, and kids - need to do now is find a way to adapt to it. Learn from all this research's that are out there and examine what are the weakest part of this type of writing and guide students to the right track. As <name> said "it is completely normal and logical for teenagers to use this new form of writing, it is something innovative for them and it allows them to make use of their creative skills." So why should we go against them? What we should do is encourage them to still use their informal writing but monitoring it and helping them in the transition from informal to formal. Made them aware of what are their weaknesses so they can be aware of them and try to work on them. 
Bibliography 
Cingel, Drew P., and S. Shyam Sundar. Texting, techspeak, and tweens: The between text messaging and English grammar skills. New Media & Society 14.8, (2012): 1304 - 1320. 
Gee, James Paul. "What Is Literacy." Journal of Education 171. 7 (1989): 18 - 25. Web. Greenhow, Christine and Benjamin Gleason. "Twitteracy: Tweeting as a New Literacy Practice." The Educational Forum Volume 76 (2012): 464 - 467. 
Wood, Clare, Nenagh Kemp, and Sam Waldron. "Exploring the Longitudinal 
Relationships between the Use of Grammar in Text Messaging and Performance on Grammatical Tasks." British Journal of Developmental Psychology 32. 4 (2014): 415-29. 
