Argumentative Essay 
	My thesis topic is "Phone addiction causes sleep problem, decrease the quality of working and affects people's daily life negatively." 
	Nothing is perfect and there are always arguments. As a growing numbers of phone users, people also have questions about phone addiction on positive side. Some people think that phones are necessary in nowadays and almost everything are done with phones. In my opinion, this cannot be an excuse of using phones all day. Phones are great assistants in our life. We can check emails, chatting and do many works on phones, but we also need time to get out of that virtual world and come back to real life. There is also another opinions which says that phones bring people much convenient and instead of lower working efficient, they increase the quality and efficient of work. Using phones correctly and limitedly will assist people a lot, but using them all the time with no limit will make it as poison to ourselves. By the research done by Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, they prove that using phones before sleeping causes negative effect on sleeping and after waking up, people will feel powerless and the working quality is decreased by phone addiction. People may also question the negative effect of phone addiction by asking "there are a lot of people using phones all the time and they all live well". But different from other damage on body which can be seen, phone addiction does "brain damage" in people's brains. It is not physical damage, but psychological damage which takes a long time to show it negative effect and it is really hard to be discovered. 
	First, phone addiction has a negative effect on working. Even though phones provide people wonderful assistant on working and studying, but using them too long is not something helpful. A survey found that people spend an average 8 hours and 21 minutes sleeping a day, but spend an average of 8 hours 41 minutes on media devices. Also four in ten people checking their phones in the night occasionally after the message notification waking them up (Davies 2015). Phone addiction affects people's sleeping quality negatively and as a result, it makes people harder to wake up in the morning and it has a negative effect on day time work since people will feel sleepy and tired all day. "Heavy cell phone users were affected too, with those who used these devices regularly in bed 2. 5 times more likely to wake later in the weekends." says Dr. Nathaniel Marshall, Woolcock epidemiologist and leader of the study, published this week in the journal PLOS ONE (Roy 2014). This survey provides a relationship between using cellphone and sleeping: the more cellphone use before sleeping, the more time people need to sleep to recover. People who have phone addiction are not able to pay attention to their work during day time under both effects of phone addiction and low sleeping quality. 
	Some other people may argue that there are a great number of people who use phones all the time and they still live well and healthy. Actually it is not. Phone addiction causes serious health problems both to our brains and immune system. By research conduct by Silentnight, researchers has found that "the blue light emitted from phones wreaks havoc with the body's natural rhythms, tricking the body into thinking it is daytime. This stops the production of the natural sleep-hormone, melanin, and keeps a person awake. (Davies 2015) Experts also warned that a continued lack of sleep lead to a seriously weakened immune system and increased risk of heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes. (Davies 2015) Also, by interviewing Dr. <name> from Department of Psychological Science at Purdue University, long time phone disorder causes anxiety and depression on the level of psychology. "It is about brain connection and addiction is a kind of brain damage." Dr. <name> said, "When brain is damages, it cannot function normally. It cannot make the same decision that translate to normal behavior." 
	Third, some people think that phones are necessary in nowadays and almost everything are done with phones. Virtual world is not real and people may be too into it to get out of it. Then it is a serious problem. 
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2989952/How-technology-taking-lives-spend-time-phones-laptops-SLEEPING.html 
