We Want You! To Go to College 
Purdue University 
	Here's the situation: you are a person trying to find a job which will help to support yourself and your family. But how will you distinguish yourself from all the other hundreds of people trying to get the very same job that you want? The answer is simple; the answer is college. Yet so many people decide they don't want to or need to go to college. In this paper I will be discussing the importance of having a college degree because in my research I have found that many people are opting out of attending college. Which is not a good thing, in fact, regardless of how you afford it or what your living situations are like you need to strive as hard as you can to go to college. In order to be more successful, well rounded and sufficiently educated one needs to obtain a college degree. 
	So how does a college degree help you to be more successful? Allow me to explain. Mostly everybody has to have a college degree if they want to get a job that pays well. The minimum wage is $7. 25 in most of the states and there have been many studies that have proven that that is not enough to live on, let alone support a family. All the jobs that pay well require the employee to have some sort of higher education. Well wait a second, you might think, "well what about factory jobs? Don't those pay well?". Well yes, factory jobs do pay a fair amount better, but not that much better. Factory jobs are laborious and hard work that pays $11 an hour on average Factory. This isn't that much more money than a fast food restaurant and the type of work is a lot more demanding. So how does one become more successful? Like I said previously, the key to becoming successful is to get a college degree. In this graph from http://www.pewresearch.org illustrates that people make more money depending on what type of degree they obtain, if any. 
In other words, people are significantly more successful when they have a bachelor's degree or even an associates degree. If people want to be more successful than going to college is obviously the way to go. This has been proven consistently since 1965. 
	College makes people more well rounded. In order to discuss this, matter we need to establish the meaning of what being well rounded. Webster's defines being well rounded as, "including many different things: having a lot of variety." This can be taken to mean different things, however, I interpret this definition to mean that you have been exposed to many different things and have been changed/influenced by many different things. College is definitely a time of change and a time to experience new things. Which makes it a great time to learn about new things, experience new things and try new things. A lot of people would agree with me on this point. The counter argument to this point is that the price of college isn't worth what you get out of it. Now this is hard to defend because a lot of people have different ideas about what they will take away from college besides the obvious degree. However, there was a study showing that a majority of the people that attend college would consider college to have paid off or will pay off. 
This graph also comes from http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2014/02/11/6-key-findings-about-going-to-college/. This graph shows that people were happy with their college experience. So the argument that college is not worth it is invalid. That means that college is a great time to become well rounded and it is worth it. 
	My final argument is the most important reason as to why someone must go to college. That reason is as follows: as the earth we live on becomes more and more advance we need to know more. As a human race we need to be more educated and informed about the world we live in so that we can make well educated decisions. In order to do that we need to get more than a high school education. In other words, we need to go to college. I am not the only one with this view either. Dr. Neil de Grasse Tyson is an American astrophysicist who said in an interview about education that, "You need to be educated. that's the least you should demand out of yourself" Tyson. He was talking about college. You need to go to college. This world we live in is a crazy place and it's time we educate ourselves. 
	I have provided sufficient information for the readers to understand that going to college is imperative. Regardless of the price, you need to strive for college and a higher education because college is important for you and our world. In order to be more successful, well rounded and sufficiently educated one needs to obtain a college degree. I cannot stress enough the importance of college and educating yourself. Hopefully with the information provided has been enough to convince you to attend and better yourself and our world. 
