Living in a robot body, is it possible? 
	The way technology development rocketed nowadays is very unpredictable. According to Moore's Law, the number of transistors in an integrated circuit doubled approximately every two years Moore, 1965. Transistors are the chips used in a circuit to make an electronic part functional. This mean that technology has developed very fast since 50 years before. If 10 years before, we could not see self-driving cars, but now, we do. Tesla has produced several cars that can drive on their own safely. Also, 10 years before, it was hard for us to see smartphones, even touch phones. But now, almost everyone around us use it, for certain places at least. The question is, how far will our machinery-skill develop? Is it possible for us to fly on our own body? Will there ever be eternal life? Or will the technology stop at one point? I believe that one day in the future, we will have a body that is made of robots entirely. Some of us may argue that the advance technology on its own will bring the down the technology itself. Because the advancement of technology may bring war on humanity thus bring everything down in a split second, so this technology advancement will not be possible. In my opinion, this argument is invalid because the research about connecting brain cells to electronics has already begun plus, war can be prevented by peace declaration by every country. 
	According to my interview recently with a student in Imperial College London, researchers have started making experiments to connect brain cells with electronic devices personal communication, March 25, 2016. This shows that the development towards having a robotic body. The first stage of having body will be for replacing lost limbs, as limbs are very important for us to increase our survival skills. After replacing some limbs with electronical limbs has been a success, then human will start to develop ways to have a full robotic body as what I mentioned before. With robotic bodies, we human may change our way of life personal communications, March 25, 2016. Sleep and food might not be needed anymore since mechanical bodies won't require energy from food and sleep. We might even get the chance to fly or even do things human can't do with their traditional body for example, lift something very heavy or not getting sick anymore and a lot more abilities. The researches for this technology had showed it success bit by bit. According to Reger 2001, a neurobrain-robotic system had detected lights p. 322. There is no stop to the researches about this technology as they showed success bit by bit. 
	The common thing about new technology is big nations will start competing very hard to beat each other. We can see this in the nuclear technology war. It is not an actual war but it is a competition to see who will have the most advance technology. But when developing nuclear energy, many countries concern about the safety and about the responsibility of having it, how will they manage, and how will they use nuclear technology to control the world. Since nuclear is a very powerful energy source, the one who controls the most advance technology of it may control the world. Thus a peace declaration between the countries that have advance nuclear technology has been made to control the progress and the usage of it personal communications, March 25, 2016. If not, a real war might occur between the countries to see who will be on top of the chain. Same goes to the development of technology of having a robotic body, a peace declaration will be needed to control the activity and usage of it. There will be wars between countries that have this technology as this development may change human life entirely as more abilities can be added. Therefore, with a peace declaration, wars because of this technology can be prevented. 
	In conclusion, the argument that advance technology will bring the era of technology itself is invalid since scientist have already started doing research in order to get this technology happen, and since the research had showed success bit by bit, the research can never be stopped until they can really control a robot using brains. An also, this technology won't bring war to human race as we have seen a true powerful technology that is nuclear, but it can be controlled with a peace declaration, same goes to the technology of having robotic bodies, it can be controlled by having a peace declaration. Thus, this technology has high possibility to be true in the future. 
Reference 
Moore, Gordon E. 1965-04-19. "Cramming more components onto integrated 
circuits" PDF. Electronics. Retrieved April 15, 2016. 
Reger, Bernard D., Fleming, Karen M., Sanguineti, Vittorio, Alford, Simon, & 
Mussa-Ivaldi, Ferdinando A. 2000. Connecting Brains to Robots: An Artificial Body for Studying the Computational Properties of Neural Tissues. Artificial Life, 64, 307-324. 
