The future of retailing market will evolve 
With the dramatic rise of online shopping, the business environment is getting tougher for retailing market to keep making profit. As a result, many people including experts predict that the future of retailing market is hopeless. Most reasons can be summarized by a report from an investment company called AMPCAPITAL (2013). The company stated that retailers are facing a deteriorating external environment. Existing high fixed costs, like rental expenses, can account for anywhere up to 45% of a retailers' operating costs. Accompany with the impact of online shopping, the increase in capital expenditure leads to a sharp decrease in margin. Compare with the depressed retailing market, the performance of online shopping is way above expectation. Take a look at the latest news just updated by TECHINASIA (2015). Alibaba reached a sale of $14. 3 billion in 2015 11. 11 Global Shopping Festival. And mobile sales accounted for nearly 70% of that revenue, which means Alibaba sold $9. 8 billion worth of goods via mobile devices. If most of the people shopping with mobile devices how could retailing market possibly maintain its business? It seems that the retailing market is really on the verge of a tipping point. However will retailing market fade out in the future? Probably not. 
Social activity is what makes future retailing market unique and foundation to evolve. Candice Landau (2014) pointed out that shopping is a social experience. Hanging out with your friends and family involve emotional contact and give each other feedback while shopping not only finish the purchasing needs but also complete other chores. What's more, shopping in store is also visceral experience. The actions that involve your sensational feelings are much more real. Like touching and smelling can't be done online. But only rely on retailing market's own advantages doesn't make it stronger. Getting the key of online shopping may help with retailing market's evolution. 
Mobility is the main factor that makes online shopping popular and serves as a push for retailing market. Invest in mobile is a trend now and will take retailing market to a whole new level. According to Eric Savitz (2013) the future of small businesses should adapt to the change in consumer behavior or even predicting it. With a mobile app, consumers can s make reservation or book goods anywhere and then to pick up in store and get up to date information. The last three aspects are append with mobile. Video content, social advertising and digital couponing which all add up to make in-store shopping more convenient and attractive by going online. So the future for small business will become smarter, faster and more promising. 
Although most of the people still have the stereotype about evolving toward online or mobile cause damage to physical retailers, actually retailers can build a more efficient connection with customer by using digital resources. Google (2014) conducted a research with Ipsos Media CT and Sterling Brands suggested that the relationship between digital and in-store shopping is far more nuanced and interconnected than what we thought online shopping making local retail store obsolete. First of all, they proved that search results are powerful way to drive people to stores. What's more, by grabbing customer's attention through mobile app, smartphone can be turned into the best sales associate. Finally, customers are looking for an informative and customized experience which is more than just a purchase and online research can serve as an advertise tool to attract customers to visit rather than lowering their expectations of stores. 
Because of the accumulation of wealth over the past years, those huge retailers like Walmart, Target etc. can still can evolve into a whole new retailing model which is called omni-channel retail. Not to mention that most of them are already on the way of evolution which is the construction of one stop shopping center. Article written by Candice Landau the Managing Editor of Bplans states that omni-channel is the logical evolution of multi-channel retailing. Simply means that you will use multiple channels (computers, brick-and-mortar stores, direct mail, catalogs, mobile devices, etc) to create a seamless consumer experience. Three tips mentioned by Candice Landau are really supportive with the evolution. First from psychological side is to optimize locations based on new shopping behaviors. Second from physical side is to integrate all of your operations across channels to create a channel-less operating model. Simply describes as integrated the online shopping experience within a retail stores like using a discount they receive online or pickup online orders. Last of all, innovation. If you are a store owner come up with your own strategies to keep people buying. You will likely need to encourage a mix of mobile, web and in-store actions. Now by glimpsing the evolution of retail market, omni-channel is at retailing's core. 
Although online shopping does make impact on retailing markets and the trend of online shopping is irreversible, retailing market shouldn't sitting there waiting for death. The future of retail market is still optimistic even robust as soon as it integrate with the interdisciplinary experiences of consumer's behavior and makes customers lives easier. In conclusion, the evolution will take place because of mastering the power of going mobile combine with the talent of physical retail will make a huge difference. 
