Aristotle's influence on Alexander the Great 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
Although the tutor of Alexander the Great was Aristotle, one of the wisest minds in those times, many scholars such as Frank Lipsius (2006) don't believe that Aristotle had a huge impact on his student. The three main reasons are as follow: Aristotle didn't teach Alexander for a long time or even wasn't Alexander's teacher at all; Alexander had many tutors and it seemed that he often doubted Aristotle's opinions in class; the man who influenced Alexander a lot was his mythological ancestor Achilles not Aristotle. However, many other scholars such as <name> who was the professor in <program name> of Purdue University believe that the philosopher's influence on the young king was great. Personally, I think the brilliant achievement of the conqueror must have close connection with his teacher since the reason of the warmonger's expedition wasn't his desire for land but his curiosity about the East. And his curiosity was from Aristotle. 
Aristotle's influence on Alexander the Great 
Since Alexander the Great not only built the empire but also connected the cultures of the East and the West, there are so many people would like to understand this legendary conqueror. Because Aristotle had taught Alexander for several years, Aristotle might have changed Alexander's idea a lot. So it's very important for us to find the depth of the wise man's influence on the young king if we want to know more about Alexander the Great. To learn more about the relationship between Alexander and Aristotle, we should first verify if the philosopher was able to become the tutor of the emperor. 
According to Jaeger, the thought that one of the foremost philosophers of all time taught one of the greatest conquerors of all time struck some later ancient historians when studying this relationship. (a professor cited in Aristotle Biography 7: Alexander the Great) Aristotle's connection to the Macedonian court was established already by his father Nicomachus, as a physician for Alexander's grandfather. (Stenudd, 2006, para 19) He had no other contact with the Macedonian ruler circle. So it was very difficult for him to get touch with the Macedonian nobility and he couldn't be the tutor of the prince. 
But this opinion had an obvious loophole. If Aristotle did not come close to the Macedonian rulers, it would be hard to understand why he would need to flee Athens after the death of Alexander, in 323, fearing for his life in the vindictive Athenian currents, threatening to be unleashed when the mighty king was gone. (Steundd, 2006, para 22). Hardly can we imagine that if Aristotle had little link to the Macedonian rulers since his enemies had much more power than him. Also, Aristotle had married a close relative to the king Hermias and this fact could show Aristotle was well accepted by the circle of nobility. Thus, Aristotle had the ability to come close to the nobility and to be the teacher of the young king. 
But it was still hard for us to prove that Aristotle's impact on Alexander was huge. The certain time of the prince's studying career was three years. It seemed that no one could changer another's opinion a lot in such a short time. 
Although Aristotle taught Alexander for only three years, they exchanged ideas by letters for a long time. 
It was very difficult for us to distinguish the letters written by others and the letters by Alexander himself. But the fact was that Alexander really wrote a lot of letters to Aristotle and Aristotle often replied to Alexander. So we trust that Aristotle influenced Alexander by letters more than his short tutorship. Although the relationship was end until the death of Aristotle's nephew, Alexander still wrote letters to Aristotle's school and Alexander built a school like Stagira, which was destroyed later in the war. (personal communication, November 3, 2015) 
In my opinion, why Alexander built the school like Stagira is he loved the time he stayed with Aristotle at school. Since he had absorbed different kinds of knowledge from his teacher, he loved and cherished Aristotle. 
However, some scholars such as Stenudd(2006) stated that the philosopher couldn't influence the king very much if the king didn't accept his teacher's idea no matter how many viewpoints they had exchanged with each other. It seemed that Alexander often had more opposing ideas in Aristotle's class than in other tutors' classes. Alexander often had a conflict with Aristotle in many aspects of science and literature. Aristotle's influence on Alexander was little because the young Alexander had his own thoughts and didn't accept Aristotle's opinion. (Frank Lipsius, 1974, Alexander the Great) 
Professor <name> gave an opposing opinion: 
The reason that Alexander often doubted the ideas of Aristotle was the teaching way of Aristotle. Aristotle's teaching way was very different from Alexander's other tutors because he liked to take his students to the nature to find answers and to challenge his opinions he gave at first. And then Aristotle would lead his students to the right direction. Aristotle's teaching way was inherited from his teacher Plato, another foremost philosopher of all time. (personal communication, November 3, 2015) 
Personally, I think Aristotle was the teacher who influenced Alexander the most although the young king had so many teachers. It was the great philosopher who fostered the great leader's interest in medicine and literature especially the Iliad. Alexander often treated his friends during his expedition since he was really good at medicine. And most of his knowledge in medicine was from his teacher. Also, Aristotle gave his student a special annotated copy of Iliad since he found that the young Alexander's dream was becoming a hero like his ancestor Achilles and he always slept with his dagger under the pillow. 
Finally, we will talk about the reason of Alexander's expedition. There are two sides on this point. One side suggests that his expedition was due to his dream of heroism and the other side claims that his personal wars was due to his curiosity about the East and his aspiration to connect different parts of the world. 
As we all known, one of Alexander's favorite subjects was Greek poetry. He held a huge interest in Iliad which was written by Homer, and he even want to become the mythical Achilles in fact just like Napoleon wanted to be Alexander (Spark Notes Editors, 2005). And he did the same which Achilles did in Iliad, which was beating enemies coming from the East. It seemed that Alexander went beyond his ancestor since he also conquered Egypt and India. Many scholars supposed that Alexander's expedition was due to his dream which was becoming a hero like Achilles, so they thought Achilles influenced Alexander the most. 
Personally, I don't support this idea, because Alexander had the scientific character which his ancestor didn't have and this character made Alexander's behavior different from his predecessor a lot. For instance, Alexander always took some geographers and botanists during his expedition. The emperor provided a good environment for these scholars to do some researches on the new discoveries of East. And the king had a great interest in the reports of these scholars. It seemed that the young conqueror wanted to know more about this world. Surely, Achilles wouldn't do the same thing because he was just a soldier who was crazy about the wars. 
No one else except Aristotle could foster the king's interest in science and the East, since Alexander's other tutors only taught him the wisdom of political struggle and courtly etiquette. So I think Aristotle's influence on Alexander was much more than Achilles. 
In conclusion, Aristotle played a very important role in Alexander and gave Alexander a much wider view to this world. If Aristotle wasn't Alexander's teacher, Alexander might also become a wise leader and a great commander but his stories wouldn't be so legendary that there was eulogized by many great men from different times. 
