P5D3 
12/05/2015 
Positive aspects of homesickness 
Feeling homesick is a natural reaction most of us experience when we move on from place of our life to another and leave important relationships behind. Freshmen in collage are a group of people who will easily get homesick. If a student feels sad and lonely, thinks about people at home all the time, wants to go home every weekend, and just feel generally depressed, then he or she is probably homesick. Most people probably just recognize the negative side of homesickness; however, I believe that despite homesickness leading to various negative aspects, it also brings a significant amount of positive aspects. 
	For my first reason, I would like to point out that getting far away from home also means getting independent from parents, which is good to feel confident doing things on our own. John Osborne who wrote "Homesick in The Modern World" believes that students contact their home relatively fewer times makes them able to differentiate their new world and new identity from their old identity that they had growing up with1. When I'm just by myself and can make my own rules, it is an introspective and empowering moment because I am the sole controller of what happens. Also, independence helps gain perspective on our life because it is good to just be by ourselves and spend some time to relax just thinking and enjoying our time alone. If we can be self-reliant and do things on our own, figuratively and metaphorically, then we are in result in charge of our destiny and are strong enough to survive new our foreign lives. 
	The second reason that feeling homesick have good respective is that we do benefit from this kind of challenge. John Osborne claims that a part of adjusting to a new place is discovering ways to use one's skills. It seems like when we get into a completely new environment and surrounded with strangeness and loneliness, the difficulty we face in turn forces us to grow as an individual. With challenge, we are able to discover more about ourselves and what we are good at; we are able to grow as a person when we engage in introspective thinking. I have to admit that I used to think it was possible to "stop the waves" and avoid all the challenges life throws at me; however, after I felt homesick since being at Purdue for a couple of weeks, I realized that the only way to face such an incredible life changing challenge was to stop running away from it and to instead try to conquer it. So, instead of trying to make life free of challenges, all we need to understand is how to best ride the waves because challenges are going to come our way from time to time. 
	The third reason that justifies my opinion that feeling homesick can be good for us is that we can benefit from meeting new people and making some new friends around us. John Osborne had two good friends at Vienna, the place he felt homesick when he just moved to, and they were the people who made he feel like staying there a little longer2. When you meet new people, you can be potentially introduced to new opportunities and explore new ideas. You don't want to miss out a specific angle on something just because you never took the time to address it with someone. In addition, by meeting new types of people you expose yourself to new knowledge and increase your knowledge on a variety of topics. In the end, the benefits of meeting new people far exceed not getting out there taking chances. 
	Many will argue that being homesick for a long time will influence academic performance, make freshmen feel stressful, and can even lead to depression; therefore, it is totally bad thing to students. I believe that some of the words hold true, but I would still say everything has two sides; it truly depends on which perspective you are taking on. Even the experience of homesickness gives to a student makes him or her feel upset, one will cope with this sense of feeling more easily in the future. Even students are far away from relatives and friends and likely feel unhappy, but the independence the get will help them a lot with managing their own life and building up their personality. Even the challenges students will face probably are the toughest issue they ever experience, but challenges help shape our character, round out any rough edges, give us lessons we need for our future success and most importantly allow us to realize that we absolutely can manage through anything that comes our way. 
	People may still think that students who feel homesickness have a hard time adjusting to the new environment so they barely have friends. However, people who is always willing to make new friends will pour themselves out in the new environment actively, try to meet and talk with more people, and make new friends eventually because the new environment is the motivation of them. Most people will somehow try to talk to others, even if they are shy and not that talkative, because they are forced to make friends by the brand new surroundings or they will feel extremely uncomfortable because of nobody to talk to. So, only under some pressure and challenge, skills will be stimulated. 
	I believe that homesickness has its positive aspect by making us experiencing something new, gaining independent and forcing us to challenge ourselves. Although there are shortcomings in this opinion of mine, I believe that the benefit students will get will overshadow the negative effects of homesickness. 
1 http://mosaicscience.com/story/homesick 
2 http://mosaicscience.com/story/homesick 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
