Positive aspects of homesickness 
Feeling homesick is a natural reaction most of us experience when we move on from on place of our life to another and leave important relationships behind. Also. homesickness is very common among college student. If one feel sad and lonely, think about people at home all the time, want to go home every weekend, and just feel generally depressed, then one is probably homesick. I believe that despite homesickness leading to various negative aspects, it brings significant benefit. 
The first reason that justifies my opinion that feeling homesick can be good for us is that we can get benefit from the experience we have during the homesickness. 
The things we learn from experience are much more valuable and useful compared to the material we get from normal class after getting a job and stepping into society. We can always be educated by old experience we have because bad experience warms us not making similar mistakes again and storing good experience helps us get the future work done more easily. Furthermore, the more we face and experience, the better we know about ourselves and the clearer our life goal will be. 
For my second reason, I would like to point out that getting far away from home also means getting independence from parents, which is good to feel confident doing things on our own. When I'm just by myself and can make my own rules, it's an introspective and empowering moment because I am the sole controller of what happens. Also, getting independence helps gain perspective on our life because it's good to just be by ourselves sometimes and take some time to relax just thinking and enjoying our time along. If we can be self-reliant and do things on our own, figuratively and metaphorically, then we are in charge of our destiny and are strong enough as a result. 
The third reason that feeling homesick have good respective is that we do can benefit from this kind of challenge. It seams like we get into a completely new environment and surrounded with strangeness and loneliness, but the difficulty we face force us to grow as an individual. With challenge, we are able to discover more about ourselves and what we are good at; we are able to grow as a person when we engage in introspective thinking. I have to admit that I used to think it was possible to "stop the waves" and remove all the challenges life gives to you. After I feel homesick since I have been in Purdue for a couple weeks, I not only realize that was I wrong about that being possible, but not having challenges is not really something you want. So, instead of working to organize life to try and make it challenge free, all we need to understand is how to best ride the waves because challenges are going to come our way from time to time. 
Many will argue that being homesick for a long time will influence academic performance, makes freshmen feel stressful, even severe homesickness can lead to depression so it is a totally bad thing to students. I believe that some of the words hold true, but I would say everything has two sides, even homesickness, and whether good or bad depends on the respective one looking for. Even the experience homesickness gives to a student makes him or her feel upset, one will cope with this sense of feeling more easily in the future. Even students are far away from relatives and friends and likely feel unhappy, but the independence the get will help them a lot with managing their own life and building up their personality. Even the challenges students will face probably are the most tough they ever experience, but challenges help shape our character, round out any rough edges, give us lessons we need for our future success and most importantly allow us to realize that we absolutely can manage through anything that comes our way. 
I believe that homesickness has its positive aspect by making us experiencing something new, getting independence and forcing us to challenge ourselves. Although there are shortcoming in this opinion of mine, I believe that the benefit students will get will overshadow the negative effects of homesickness. 
