11/21/2015 
Lend a Hand to those Young Athletes 
In the current situation of Chinese sports, many young athletes are suffering from different difficulties. One of the most common difficulty that athletes need to face is education. Many young athletes in China give up on their education during the time they train to become a professional, this phenomenal lead many of them jobless after their training. Instead, government/genera administration of sport should set up regulations for those athletes to take a certain level of education, so they can find a job after their training. 
First of all, the reason I bring this topic up is because my personal experience. When I was in China, I went to different training programs for basketball. One of the most struggle I got out of from the training was how time consuming it is to train for a particular sport. For example, when I was in Wuhan for basketball, there was no time for me to study because the general training was from morning to late afternoon. And I would not be able to study at night because at the time I go back to my room, I was already exhausted. I could not do anything productive. Also, when I go visit other athletes who live in the training camp, they would much rather to use their free time to play games or go outside than stay in their rooms and study all the time. That's the reason why I think this issue is important. I was personally there and had a life of a semi-professional athletes. I was only there for a short time, I cannot imagine who hard it is for those athletes who are there all year to keep things going well for them especially their academic side. 
The second important element that drags me into this topic is due to my interview with my friend <name>. Few weeks ago we had an interview about his experience as a semi-professional athlete and his opinion on the current sports system. From the interview, I deeply felt his emotional side on this topic. He was in the training base for three years. According to him, all of these years were filled with hard work, practice and very limited time of study. I remembered when we were talking about what kind of studies he did, he had that sorrow eyes looking at me and shaking his head. "Nothing really, we didn't have any time to study. It was not required, no one wanted to give us time to study." That was what he said about education during those three years. From an outsider perspective, it is hard to imagine how hard it is for these athletes. What is going on in their minds are crucial. They have to perform under huge pressure because they already know how much they gave up on their education, and it is deadly to them after their career. That's why the general administration of sports should help these athletes. Bring study session into these training camp and ask them to take a certain level of education! 
The last reason why I think the general administration of sports should help those athletes is because reasonable facts. China's national news agency Xinhua reported that almost half of 6,000 professional athletes retiring from competition each ear end up jobless or without further schooling plans." According to the China Sports Daily, nearly 80% of China's 3000,000 retired athletes are struggling with joblessness, injury or poverty. Many athletes suffer from sports injuries and health problems caused by their training." Now these numbers are only going up because daily competition is becoming more challenging for young people. Now days, a lot of students cannot find a proper job for them even after college education. That is just insane to think about because if those top tier students cannot find a job they like, how would those athletes whom without any education find any jobs. This is just a cruel part of story. To improve that, the government needs to lend a hand. 
Based on the three reasons I gave, I deeply believed that the government/general administration of sports should set up regulations for athletes to take a certain level of education. Because ultimately, these young people are the future of the country, the government has the responsibility to lend a hand for them! 
