November 21 2015 
The inheritance of Chinese percussion 
	With upturn living standards, more and more people have enough money to enjoy spiritual enjoyment not only just in order to maintain food and clothing, so many family in China make a decision that let their children study instrument. But most of families choose to study Western percussion rather than Chinese percussion. Chinese percussion has more than several thousand years' history. And many Chinese think it has an important position in the world stage, yet, it isn't popular with people in the China so that most of Chinese children start to learn Western percussion, because they think playing Western percussion is more attraction than Chinese percussion. Yet, Chinese percussion owns many unique skills which are different Western percussion; therefore many families should not see Western percussion as the only choice to their children. 
	Chinese percussion has many attractive points so that it should be studied. And Chinese percussion not only can play solo, but also it is an important part in Beijing opera. For instance, it is always used to beat rhythms and as a special tool to perform unusual sounds in order to express actors' emotion in the Beijing opera. Moreover, in most position, Chinese percussion can play alone, I had attend many competitions to show Chinese percussion to more Chinese for the sake of letting them having interest in Chinese percussion. 
	Each type of percussion has its meaning to exist. Every country has its own culture, it is same as China. As a result of this, I think it is our duty to study Chinese percussion rather than most of people to study other's percussion and ignore our good culture. 
	There are also some people hold different point about this argument that they think we have our right to choose what we like and they have an opinion that Chinese percussion is out in nowadays. I have to against them. Because first I agree we have right to choose what we like but we should not ignore our native culture which is a precious fortune for us. And I do not consider Chinese percussion is out. Maybe it is not like Western percussion which possesses expression; yet, Chinese percussion has its own charm which deserves our study and understands. 
	Chinese percussion has many advantages, as a consequence, I think most of Chinese families should consider to let their children to understand Chinese percussion and then letting them make decision to learn what they like best. And I also believe Chinese will be inherit and develop in the future. 
