Flying is one thing that people always wanted to do. Nowadays, we got develeped enough technology to transport hundreds of people in a plane. Becoming a pilot requires responsibility. In general, it is hard to become a pilot. However, it is especially hard for Koreans to become a pilot in their country, due to keen competition and circumstances. In these days, aviation is becoming a part of human life. In order to become a country with strong aviation industry, the country should have enough aviators and proper environment to support them. The government in Korea should give more attention on developing aviation industry because people will continue to demand for fly over to other regions and countries in next hundreds of years. The government should help to grow number of aviators by offering more opportunities to people to get train and providing better environment to fly. 
	Korea does not have appropriate education system to train pilots. It is very competitive to become a pilot in Korea. There are not many aviation schools and most of them require students to be top four percent out of entire students in a school to be accepted. Many people have to give up their dreams of becoming a pilot due to high expectation of school grades from schools. Even people are accepted in to the school, schools lacks in support compare to schools support in strong aviation countries. For those reasons, large number of people decide to go to countries with strong aviation such as United States to study flying. 
Opponents of supporting aviation industry in Korea might say studying in other countries can cover those flaws. Unfortunately, studying aviation in other country does not solve every problems. As an international students, there are many disadvantages such as prioritize of US citizens and financial problems. Using my own experience as example, at the beginning, I applied <place> as <position>, which is direct way to become a pilot in <place>. However, one of advisor sent me an email that they are not allowing international students in Professional flight major starting from year 2015. He offered me a suggestion to be an Aviation Management major instead and learn flight in Purdue Aviation LLC, which is a private company provides flight training at <place> Airport. The other reason is financial problems. The other reason is financial problems. In general, tuition of aviation schools in Korea is around $10,000 a year. In comparison, Tuition of international student in <place> University aviation major is around $30,000 a year which is three times greater than tuition in Korea. 
In conclusion, it is important to offer training to many pilots as possible with proper system to become a strong aviation country because the world is in need of airplanes in these days. If the government in Korea offer enough supports, students in Korea do not have to go aboard to study aviation with fair treatment and with less pressure of finance. 
