ENGL106I 
21/11/2015 
Argumentative Paper 
Can we depend on the robots in the future? 
	Nowadays, robots are getting more and more popular and advanced in people's life thanks to the development of technology and engineering. They can cope with a lot of things for us, such as manufacturing and serving. Therefore humans depend on them much more than before. But some people say that robots have many disadvantages, because they are not able to understand us thoroughly and they make mistakes. In my opinion, in the future robots will be our companions and they could lead us to a better future. Because they have the efficiency and the unique abilities that we don't have. In this way, they could help us in our life, work, and academics. 
	First of all, I believe that robots are helping us in many ways and making our life more efficient. For example, Kuka robots, the leader of the car manufactory robots company, they made their robots in very high accuracy and efficiency. Those robots are especially made for making cars and there are many types of robots which are capable of different tasks. Some of them are able to make doors and some of them are made to assembly the car body. In this way, they can share the burden of the workers and make the whole process faster and cheaper. It follows that companies could spend less and produce more, and people can save a lot of money. In a word, robots are good helpers, because they could work more efficient and more accurate than humans, and they never feel tired. 
	However, there are still some people think that robots are actually hazardous rather helpful. They firstly argue that robots sometimes make mistakes which are lethal. For example, the Volkswagen factory in Germany had a very terrible accident just a few months ago. The assembly robot accidently took a human worker into the assembly line and killed him. This news did shock everyone and people started worry about the safety of those robots. Nevertheless, this is avoidable. If engineers could refine the robots to lower the risk to the least, we could still trust the robot. And everyone make mistakes, robots are not the exception. Secondly, some individuals hold the opinion that one day in the future, robots may be so clever and so advanced, that they may dominate the world. Since in the future robots could be added the function that they can learn by themselves and they may have their own thoughts. This is reasonable in some perspective. But we can prevent it, because robots are made by us. We can programme them into what we like and nip it in the bud. 
	In conclusion, although there are some problems robots have, we can solve them by developing our technology and programming. And in the future, the robot will have more benefits than its drawbacks. Since in the future, robots not only could make our life easier and more efficient, but also they could help us to explore the new science areas. I strongly believe that they will be human's guiders and companion to lead us to a better future. 
