4/12/15 
P5D1 
Existence or an Abstract? 
With today's technological advances, humans are trying to find evidence of extraterrestrial life; sources of water, suitable atmosphere to support life and artificial landmarks on the surface of planets. Many people think that aliens exist, but many others disagree to that point. We live in a world which all is possible, life exists even in most harsh environments. The chances that other life forms exist out there in space is really high; it does not mean that they are advance species like us. Many sighting or evidence had occurred throughout human history, but most of them tend to be disproved and misjudged as aliens. The Universe is ineffably huge, nobody knows where it ends or whether it has one. 
	I believe that there is life somewhere in space that is waiting to be found. The Hubble Deep Field is an image of a small region in the constellation Ursa Major, the images are constructed from a series of observations by the Hubble Space Telescope. It covers an area approximately about, 24-milionth of the whole sky. The Hubble Deep Field, almost all of the 3000 objects in the image are galaxies. The Deep Field contains an estimate of 3 Trillion Stars in a single grain of sand of space. From this estimate, scientist further estimates that there are 1 Septillion stars in the Universe (1 followed by 21 zeroes). The sun that we love and know is a star; it has 8 planets. These planets and a star constructed the solar system that we live in. Furthermore, it is likely that there are at least as many planets as stars. However, the Drake Equation that was developed by Frank Drake in 1961, is a tool to estimate the odds of finding intelligent life in the universe, by plugging numbers into the equation, the odds are still exceptionally low that intelligent alien life is even out there. An estimate probability that only 0.001% of other planets having advanced life forms living on them; 99.999% of other life forms that are not intelligent nor humans existing in other planets. Life on Earth is a mystery as well, according to Stephen Hawking, "We do not know how DNA molecules first appeared. The chances against a DNA molecule arising by the random fluctuations are very small. Some people have therefore suggested that life came to Earth from elsewhere."1 
	Although the probability of intelligence life is really slim almost to zero, I would still believe that we have been visited by intelligent alien life forms. Einstein famously concluded that, Space in the Universe can be warped and bent, intelligent aliens probably has figured out a way to travel faster than light by bending space and using wormholes. So it is possible that they are visiting or have visited earth before, this could lead to all those numerous sightings of UFOs by astronauts, pilots, and people on the ground. However, it is difficult to believe or even to prove that Einstein's theory is correct, as we do not possess such advanced technology to participate in it. Nonetheless, there are scientific theories that could disprove UFO sightings, for example: Lighting Sprites; they are large electrical discharges that occur above the thunderstorm clouds that are formed in various flat circular shapes. Military Experiments like concept planes, and missile tests are always misjudged as unidentified flying objects. The famous Phoenix Lights, one of the most famous examples of a military exercise being mistaken as UFOs, it occurred on March 13th 19972, hundreds of not thousands of people in the Phoenix area witnessed a row of lights hovering in the sky, and the slowly falling. The U.S Air force then explained that those lights were long-burning illumination flares dropped from planes. 3 
	Conspiracies show that the military and the governments all over the world has been hiding and keeping information about aliens, most evidence has been covered up from the public's reach. I also do believe that NASA is also involved in covering up information about alien life. In 1996, a footage taken from a space station was filming the "Tether incident", the breaking of the Tethered Satellite System; it was an experiment involving the deployment of a 19 kilometers of tether to measure magnetic fields across space. After moments of the tether unexpectedly detached, infrared cameras managed to pick up unusual flying objects with varied speeds coming from all directions, these UFOs looked as if they were investigating the tether line. NASA denied the fact that those were UFOs and in fact, were debris from the incident just floating alongside with the tether. Many people disagree as those so called-"Debris" are all in a similar shape and had a same flying pattern, one of which actually change its flight path or accelerated across space, which was impossible for normal objects to do that due to vacuum, unless another force acts upon the object. All in all, nobody knows the truth behind this incident, as NASA or the government has kept it from the public. In 2009, a former NASA astronaut and the sixth man to walk on the Moon, shocked the world when he admitted that he knows there is life elsewhere, and that governments and NASA has been covering up information about it, probably to keep from scaring the public. It's hard not to believe in this hypothesis as it was a former NASA astronaut who said it. 
	In conclusion, it is difficult to rest on a side, deciding whether we believe in Aliens or not. Questions about Aliens existing still remains a mystery. As stated before, life on earth is a mystery yet to be known as well. Meeting a more advanced civilization, at our present stage may be impossible, due to our lack of funds to support projects like SETI-the search for extraterrestrial intelligence. Also, I think there are mysteries and problems to solve on earth first, before reaching out to the skies. 
1 http://www.hawking.org.uk/life-in-the-universe.html 
2 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phoenix_Lights 
3 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phoenix_Lights 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
