Date: 3rd December, 2015	 
Assignment: Argumentative Essay	 
Draft Number: 3 
Cyber-Crime 
Since the invention of internet in 1958, it has transformed the world and the way we live completely, and in a way no one had imagined. It has given us tremendous power to do various things that are otherwise impossible. However, when we think about the internet, are its good aspects the only thing that come to your mind? We all know that with great power comes great responsibility, and also come the risks and dangers associated with it. In my opinion, Cyber-crime is relatively new, but an exponentially growing and one of the increasingly dangerous threats currently faced by the governments all over the world and hence every country should have a strong defense mechanism against it. In this paper, I would be putting forward several arguments to prove my opinion, and would also try to refute some of the opposing ideas regarding this topic. 
No one can deny that the internet is the greatest boon that technology has provided us, but we also cannot deny that it has left a very large number of people vulnerable to attacks that might cause serious damage to the emotional, social, and monetary aspects of their lives. Although we cannot completely stop the usage of the internet, we can make stronger laws, defense mechanisms, and can raise greater awareness against the dangers on the internet. As I have discussed in my previous papers, our dependence on technology is growing exponentially, but our knowledge about it isn't growing at all. This phenomenon of usage of technologies without actually understanding them is being exploited by technological experts popularly known as hackers to do many unlawful things to gain money, etc. For example, if people are not aware of or educated about online attacks, they may click on random links, or malicious sites on their e-mails or other sites, which may lead to their computer getting infected with computer viruses or worms which can steal very important information from their computers or do other serious damage to the computers. Or, they may fall prey to various phishing attacks because of which their accounts on various sites like banking or social networking sites might get compromised. This is why raising awareness is so crucial. 
Moreover, cyber-crimes also lead to huge monetary loss to governments, companies, and individuals. Monetary losses because of cyber-crimes are also increasing at exponential rates with the growth of cyber-crime. According to Professor <name>, each identity theft costs a company around $20, and each attack leads to millions of identities being stolen from companies. For example, taking an example from my literature review paper, when a group of hackers broke into Citibank servers, Citibank had to incur a loss of around $20 Million. Internet related thefts are so prominent now that almost all companies spend a considerate amount of money to protect themselves against such attacks. Not only the companies, but even the governments are extremely vulnerable. As I mentioned in my literature review, governments also have to incur a lot of monetary loss because of cyber frauds like tax-refund fraud, etc. Then, there are the direct government hackings, where hackers directly hack into government networks and steal sensitive data and money. There have been multiple occasions in the past when hackers have hacked government websites, servers, etc. Hacking is in fact becoming so popular that even juveniles are starting to indulge in such activities. For example, some years ago, a 15-year-old hacker broke into NASA computers and stole sensitive information, including source code that controlled the International space Station's important life support systems. This lead to a 21 day shutdown, and lead to heavy monetary loss to NASA. There have been many other cases where teenagers broke into airport systems, CIA systems, and many more. This itself is enough proof that the governments need to work harder to protect itself and its citizens against the cyber-world. 
These instances of hacking are not even rare. Almost every day, thousands of online attacks happen ranging from attacks on huge companies to attacks on individuals. If you use social networking websites, it is very likely that your account would've been broken into at least once. These are so common and easy to do, that I became a victim of a phishing scam within the first year of joining a social networking site. One Google search, and we can find many ways to hack people's accounts. That's how easily accessible hacking methods are. In a way, as professor <name> stated in his interview, cyber-crime is almost always ahead of the judiciary system, and it's getting even tougher to fight cyber-crime because of it's borderless nature. This is because, still different countries have various definitions of what cyber-crimes are, and the countries from where most of the attacks originate don't properly coordinate with other countries to deal with those attacks. This is why there is an urgent need for governments all across the globe to work together to solve this growing problem. 
On the other hand, some people might say that cyber-crime is not a very urgent danger, and at the moment, countries have many more things to deal with, then deal with cyber-crime. This might be true in some countries, but people need to understand that now, having a defense mechanism against cyber-crimes and attacks is now becoming almost as important as having a military. To prove this, I would like to restate what Professor <name> said. He said that nowadays, countries attack their rival countries through cyber-space instead of attacking them on the ground to demonstrate their cyber capabilities. Although this doesn't lead to as much damage as attacking on the ground, but still it leads to a lot of damage. An example is when the US and Israel jointly created a cyber-weapon to complete disrupt the working of a nuclear energy plant of Iran. Hence, improving the protection against cyber-attacks is not only important to protect its citizens, but also important to protect the infrastructure, and proper working of any country. 
To summarize, I would say that the emergence of the internet, and the power that comes with it has also given rise to an entirely new type of crime which most of us are not prepared to face. In this paper, through various arguments and by using some articles, personal experience, and a personal interview I have proved why it is so crucial and urgent to fight cyber-crime. 
