16 April 2016 
Confucian teaching methods 
If you ask a Chinese who is the most famous teacher in Chinese history, I think most of them will tell you: Confucius. Historically, Confucius discovered and applied many his own teaching methods to teach his students and as a result, helped his students made a great progress. However, here comes a question, can we still take advantage of Confucian teaching methods nowadays to enhance our teaching efficiency and quality? As far as I am concerned, I suggest that we can still apply these three Confucian teaching methods to the contemporary pedagogy. In this research paper, I will first give a brief introduction of the three most famous Confucian teaching methods "Yin cai shi jiao", "You jiao wu lei" and "Wen gu zhi xin", then analyze how Confucius applied these three teaching methods historically and finally I will give supports to my argument that why we can still apply these three teaching method to the contemporary pedagogy. 
First of all, let's have a look about the definition of these three Confucian teaching methods and how Confucius applied these teaching methods historically. From He Xinyu's article, "Yin cai shi jiao" means using different teaching methods to teach different students according to their personalities, characteristics as well as family and education backgrounds. (1) In the history, Confucius divided his students into different groups according to their education backgrounds and attitudes of study etc. Regarding different groups, Confucius would use different teaching methods to teach. For example, some students had strong education background but were easily self-satisfied. As a result, Confucius was always figured out their drawbacks to motivate them. However, when teaching some students who was lacking confident, Confucius would usually praised their achievement to encourage them. Confucius use different methods to let students with different characteristics to make a progress. 
Second, according to Wang's article, "Wen gu zhi xin" means that we can enhance our understanding and getting new thoughts from reviewing the knowledge we have already learned (2). Historically, Confucius always asked his students reviewing what they learned to enhance student's understanding of knowledge points. For example, once a time, Confucius taught his students how an emperor set a law to govern the country? The first day, students only understood that the law were set based on the political needs. However, the next day when students review this policy and re-thought about it, they understood that the deep reason was because the need for the economy need. By reviewing the knowledge again and again, Confucian students learned more in depth than before. 
Third, from Bai's article, "You jiao wu lei" means teachers should treat their students equally regardless their backgrounds and personalities" (1). As Bai said in his article, Confucian students have different family backgrounds. Some of their families are rich or own great powers and some of them are too poor to pay the tuition. However, once Confucius decided to teach a student, Confucius would use same attitudes and efforts to treat them no matter what's their backgrounds are. 
After having a brief recognition and knowledge of these three teaching methods, next I will illustrate why I think that we can still apply these three teaching methods to the contemporary pedagogy. 
First of all, the reason I suggest to apply "Yin cai shi jiao" to the contemporary pedagogy is because different students have different characteristics and education background, thus teachers should use different teaching plans to improve the teaching efficiency. For example, facing a student who is enthusiastic with studying, teachers can give him more freedom, because he will engage himself in studying without teacher's supervision. But, if you have a student who do not like studying, in order to teach them knowledge, as a teacher, you should explain why learning is important to him first and then give him more supervision. Meanwhile, if a students do not have strong knowledge background to the courses you teach, you cannot teach him using the same method like other students having strong knowledge background, or they could not follow you and as a result, waste his time. Thus, teachers should teach students using different teaching methods according to different student's features. Only when teachers do this, can we really enhance the teaching efficiency. 
Second, the reason I suggest to apply "Wen gu zhi xin" to the contemporary pedagogy is mainly because I believe that human intelligence is limited, thus, students need reviewing to give his brain more time and opportunities to think and understand knowledge points in depth. As Wang said in his article, "Nowadays, we can still encourage and help our students to review what they learned to let students improve their understanding of that knowledge. Just like teaching a mathematical formula, the first time when you teach students, they may just understand how to use it. But, when they reviewed it and thought carefully, they might understand why this formula is right. What's more, when they reviewed this formula the third time, they may understand the relation between this formula and other formulas. Again and again, each time when students reviewing, they will get new knowledge and new thoughts" (2). Just like the example Wang gave in her article, I think "Wen gu zhi xin" is a good method to enhance student's understanding of knowledge. Thus, we can still apply this teaching method to the contemporary pedagogy. 
Third, I also suggest to apply "You jiao wu lei" to the contemporary pedagogy. As far as I am concerned, treating students equally regardless their family background is a teacher's responsibility. As a teacher, you should be responsible and use your full effort to treat all of your students. I think each student is a part of a teacher's job, thus, if a teacher want to be responsible to his job, he should be responsible to all of his students. I did an interview with a history professor Zhou Hong in Beijing Normal University. Zhou argued that responsibility is an essential factor to measure a teacher. If a teacher is not responsible, the teaching quality is not guaranteed. Thus, she mentioned, students in her university will be asked whether they feel be treated differently by a teacher at the end of each semester by using a questionnaire. Her university conducted this research in each semester to guarantee teachers treat students equally and be responsible to all students. (Zhou Hong. Personal Interview, 26, March, 2016). 
Up till now, I have analyzed why I think that we can apply these three teaching methods to the contemporary pedagogy. 
However, I also acknowledge an opposite opinion regarding to apply "Wen gu zhi xin" to the contemporary pedagogy. From the internet, some people argued that the updating of knowledge is very fast nowadays. Thus, we should focus more on learning new knowledge instead of using time reviewing knowledge. Regarding this argument, I suggest that the updating of knowledge is very fast nowadays. However, I also held the opinion that the updated knowledge is based on current knowledge. Thus, in order to learn the new knowledge, we need to be familiar with and have a good understanding of current knowledge at first. This means we should use our current knowledge lay a foundation for our further learning and then learn the new knowledge. Since reviewing can help us enhance the understanding of old knowledge and contribute to the learning of knowledge, thus, we still need to apply 'Wen gu zhi xin" in the contemporary world. 
All in all, based on above analysis, I think we can still apply these three Confucian teaching methods to the contemporary pedagogy in order to enhance the teaching efficiency and quality. All of these three methods are still have their values nowadays. However, in order to apply these three teaching methods, we still have a long road to go. First of all, we need enough financial support. Because in some areas, schools do not have enough fund to hire more teachers in order to apply "Yin cai shi jiao". One teacher should face a lot of students and as a result, do not have time to set different teaching plans. Second, the supervision to teachers is also needed. Schools should use different methods to supervise teachers and let them treat students equally and use efficient teaching methods. Third, I think we should also give teachers some explanation to let them understand why these three teaching methods are valuable and then they can apply these three methods to the pedagogy. 
1. Bai, Mingfeng. "Confucius the Inspirations We Can Get from "You jiao wu lei" for Rural Area Education." Education Explore 1 (2001): 24-25. 
2. He, Xinyu. "What Inspirations We Can Get from Confucius's Teaching Methods." Xichang College Newspaper 18. 1 (2006): 54-59. 
3. Wang, Hui Ying. "Wen Gu Zhi Xin in Chinese Teaching." Heihe Education 2 (2000): 31. 
