Digital Piracy and Its Effect on Our Economy 
In 2005, studios incurred losses amounting to more than $7 billion - all because of internet piracy. Or at least that's what they want you to think. The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) have always scapegoated piracy as the sole reason for everything bad that has ever happened to the entertainment industry. It's not surprising that the MPAA decided to keep the details of the report hidden from public eyes. After all, all that they're interested in is having big numbers for headlines. Yet, no matter what they do and how hard they try, piracy has always and will always be running strong. There's a simple reason for this. People get from piracy what they can't from normal methods of distribution - speed, reliability, variety and convenience. Instead of attacking piracy, industries and organizations like the MPAA/RIAA should accept piracy for what it is. They fail to see its beneficial effects on the economy. Not only has piracy and pirates had a positive net effect on the economy, but piracy also acts as a guide for the entertainment industry to follow. Piracy is not a bad thing; it is in fact one the best things to happen to modern entertainment. 
	 Neil Gaiman, an author, after having firsthand experience with piracy knows just how beneficial piracy can really be. In his video interview with the Open Rights Group, Neil explains how a certain experience completely altered his beliefs about piracy and copyright. At the beginning of the video, Neil admits that when he discovered that people were pirating his works online, he was not happy. He explains how he believed that this meant that he was losing his copyright (which he then says is a completely erroneous notion). However, he then tells us about a rather unintuitive finding of his: 
"Then I started to notice that two things that seemed much more significant. One of which was that places where I was being pirated -- particularly Russia (where people were translating my stuff into Russian and spreading it out into the world) I was selling more and more books. People were discovering me through being pirated. And then they were going out and buying the real books, and when a new book would come out in Russia it would sell more and more copies." (Masnick, 2011) 
Neil Gaiman's case is an excellent example of how piracy induced awareness can help sales. He continues on by explaining that after persuading his publisher to let him release a digital copy of his novel "American Gods" for free online, sales for the said book went up by 300% in the following month - and this was a book that had already been selling well. He says he then had an eye-opening realization that "you're not losing sales by having stuff out there" (Masnick, 2011). He says that, to him, piracy was just another way of lending books. When asked about any resultant lost sales at talks, he asks how many people in the audience found their favorite author because someone lent them a book as compared to the number of them who went into a bookstore and bought a book by the author. Only 5 to 10% of the audience found their favorite authors having first bought the book. (Masnick, 2011) 
	Despite such findings, it is still common that we find people who think that piracy is harmful to our economy. Other than this being more intuitive, another reason why people would think this, is because of the amount of false/poorly made reports claiming that piracy is harmful to the economy. By comparing two papers with contrasting conclusions - "Digital Music Consumption on the Internet: Evidence from Clickstream Data" by the European Commission and the "Online Infringement of Copyright: Implementation of the Online Infringement of Copyright" survey report by Ofcom, we can see how the one that concludes by saying piracy affects the economy negatively (the Ofcom report) is actually a very misguided and untrustworthy report. First of all, the European Commission study is an actual research paper based completely on recorded user behavior data, while the Ofcom paper is simply a survey. There is a significant difference between drawing conclusions after asking consumers how they feel about a subject and actually observing the behavior of those consumers and then forming conclusions. Secondly, the Ofcom report sampled only 5000 people, whereas the European Commission studied in detail the actual behavior of 25,000 Internet after collecting users' information for over a year. 
As can be seen in the following excerpt, the European Commission's paper uses far more reliable techniques to come up with their conclusion as compared to Ofcom's survey which involved simply asking the people about their online activity: 
"The sample that we have available contains information on 5000 individuals for each of the ve largest European economies: France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK. First, we have access to information about the socioeconomic characteristics of each user. In particular, we observe gender, age, education, occupation, household income, household size, presence of children in the household and region of residence. Second, the original database contains all the clicks of each of the 25,000 Internet user for the period going from January 1st, 2011 to December 31st, 2011. For each of these clicks, we observe the URL of the webpage visited and the time at which it was visited, the duration of time that the webpage is viewed and a classi cation of the webpage according to its content." (Aguiar & Martins, 2013, p. 6) 
Furthermore, the EC study only consisted of people who used the particular digital media being studied (digital music), and thus had a significantly more appropriate sample. Thus it can be seen that reports such as the Ofcom one are objectively less reliable than those which claim piracy is beneficial, such as the European Commission paper. 
	Another thing to note is that a lot of the content that people download is content that they wouldn't have bought anyways. For example, if someone downloaded an obscure DVD, starring an unknown actor, for free online, but would otherwise have never bought it, would it really count as lost sales? This is even truer in poorer countries or places where there is regional unavailability of content, where people wouldn't have been able to buy it anyways. Thus if someone pirates something that they are anyways unable to buy, no lost sales are incurred. In this case, piracy would just act as free advertisement. Yet, at times, such forms of piracy are considered when quoting losses, when they clearly shouldn't be. Furthermore, it can be seen that pirates in fact compose the very part of society that spends the most on digital goods. According to an Ofcom (2012), over a three month period, when compared to pirates, the non-pirates spent much less on movies, music and television. The same is shown for computer software as well as video games. Apart from this, the survey went on to ask the users how much they would be willing to pay per movie or per music track. What was found is that a pirate was willing to pay 76p for a track and $4. 92 for a movie, compared to the regular buyer's 72p for a track and $3. 74 for a movie. Thus, we have yet another rather unintuitive finding - that pirates are not as harmful to the economy as one might think. On the contrary, they are the ones who contribute the most. 
	Thus, as shown in several cases, piracy has proven to be extremely helpful in several ways. However, due to its highly unintuitive effects along with organizations such as the MPPA/RIAA scapegoating piracy as the reason for all of the media industry's losses, piracy has garnered a bad name. What we must remember is that, in the end facts and figures are what speak the truth. And in this case, facts and figures show us that piracy has a net positive effect on our world. 
