State of a Nation: the Problems with Korean Mandatory Military Service 
How would you feel if you have to join the military no questions asked? This issue has been a major concern for Korean citizens, especially male students. I suggest that the mandatory Korean military service should be abolished for two reasons, which I'll mention in detail. 
About 50 years ago, Korea was not the same country as today. Korea was in constant wars with other countries and it was normal for citizens to think that joining the military was necessary to defend the country. This kind of philosophy was deeply planted in every Korean citizen and I honor the soldiers who died for the country. I realize how precious this country is and I will cherish it with all my heart. That said, I don't think that Korea is in the same situation. We're not in a war that requires all citizens to join the military. Today, many people disagree with the law that requires military service. 50 years ago, people voluntarily joined military even though it wasn't mandatory. The government now forces all men to join the military and doesn't attempt to even consider that people disagree. Therefore, citizens are leaving the country so that they can avoid from serving in the military. I believe that this is a critical problem for Korea because it is happening at such a great scale. These are some of the best and brightest leaving the country for education, and sometimes never coming back. Government needs to realize how important it is to keep the best and the brightest, and more importantly, they need to realize that they, the members of the government, serve at the pleasure of the people. The people can throw them out at any point they want. Abolishing mandatory military service will help to keep the best and the brightest in the country and therefore, help the members of the government to keep their jobs. 
Korean student are recognized for academic excellence in many other countries. Many other countries notice that Korean students excel in math and many other subjects, due to Korea's advanced education system. When these students move on to college, they are starting to get a nice little yellow paper that says "report to City Hall" for military service draft. It is such a struggle for students who want to finish college. They want to earn the education they paid for. The government needs to realize that not all students are destined to be soldiers and that it's ineffective to use scholars as border defenders. Students generally are forced to leave school in the middle of their sophomore year of college for service. They don't get to graduate on time because of that, and it disturbs the flow of their education. Ending mandatory military service will not only increase the number of college degree completion rates but also increase the number of scholars who stay to contribute to the country. 
In terms of our dealings with North Korea, we cannot sustain war forever. War isn't the only way to deal with other countries. Winning war is not the only victory anyway; we must win peace. 
The Korean government's defense of mandatory military service is that it insures the security of the country. However, if a country loses its best and brightest, you cannot say that country is secure because the economy depends on innovation. Thus, if the best and the brightest, who the country depends on for innovation, leave, then there will be no new jobs and an insecure economy. An insecure economy leads to an insecure country. Thus, mandatory military service does not lead to a secure country. 
All that means is that abolishing mandatory military service would be to the advantage of the country. The "brain drain" needs to be stemmed as quickly as possible. In addition, the government needs to cooperate with students so that those who want to be a part of the military can complete their college degrees first. Mandatory military service has been enforced for over 50 years and disagreement over it hasn't declined. This indicates that something needs to be changed. The first step in solving any problem is recognizing there is one. Today, Korea is unstable. The government and the citizens of Korea need to come together, just as 50 years ago when we all stood against our enemies. We need to be able to reconstruct our military recruitment system so that this country is no longer in a state of uncertainty or dissatisfaction. That way, the best and the brightest in our country will stay. 
