P5d3_arp 
April 26, 2016 
Does smoking and cancer have a correlation? 
Most people have witnessed that one can be a victim of cancer even if they have never touched a cigarette in their whole life. Others have seen that, chain-smoker's live life free from any health problem. But still these shouldn't be used to debunk the fact that smoking is actually responsible for cancer to some extent. Besides cancer, it can also have numerous detrimental effects on the body. Upon my research, interview report and synthesis paper I have come to understand that, there is a strong correlation between smoking and cancer. 
But according to Siepmann, J. P., MD. (n.d.). Smoking does not cause lung cancer, WHO 1999 statistics. Editorial from the Journal of Theoretics (Oct/Nov 1999), if you smoke, there is only 10% chance or less that you will get lung cancer. It also says that a US white male smoker has a 8%chance of dying from lung cancer; whereas a US white male non-smoker has a 1% chance of dying from lung cancer. Even though the chance for dying from lung cancer if you smoke is 8%, by not smoking you can actually decrease that chance by 7%. Smoking increases the chance of dying by lung cancer. And smoking contributes to many other diseases besides lung cancer; like cancer in the mouth, colon, neck etc. and diseases like emphysema, COPD and many more. These numbers are not enough to debunk the fact that smoking and cancer do have a correlation. As I have researched for my essay, I have found many more supporting evidence on this. 
Firstly, during my interview with Dr. <name> ( <name>, personal communication, April 16, 2016), an epidemiologist, I discovered a lot on the correlation between cancer and smoking. She had done research on cancer at <name of university> and at Purdue. Therefore, with her knowledge on cancer and epidemiology, she was really helpful. According to her, smoking is detrimental to health and it affects all organs of the body. Smoking cigarettes causes one to inhale nicotine which not only causes addiction but also harms the lungs in various ways like destroying the lung cells. She also says that lung cancer may have a lot of causes but smoking is "a contributing factor". This is because nicotine effects lung tissues aiding in lung cancer and tar, a component of cigarette smoke deposits in lung and harms it. So as a result breathing capacity is reduced. She also mentioned that smoking and cancer can be correlated. Smoking harms the lungs as well as acts as a factor in causing cancer like lung cancer, mouth cancer, oral cancer, esophageal cancer and even stomach cancer. Smoking is said to be a leading cause for oral cancer. 
Secondly, alongside my interview I also researched articles from the Cancer Research UK, National Cancer Institute and Center for Disease Control to support my thesis statement. According to an organization that researches on cancer, Cancer Research UK (2015), 1 in 4 cancer deaths in the UK are caused by excessive smoking. In the 20th Century alone, 100 million deaths worldwide have been linked to the smoking of cigarettes. It also talked about the harmful chemicals present in cigarettes that contribute towards damaging the DNA of the cell and then finally turning them cancerous. Again, according to the National Cancer Institute (2014), cigarettes contain up to 250 KNOWN harmful substances, 69 of which are KNOWN to cause cancer. It also mentions other harmful effects cigarette can have on the body besides cancer for example Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), diabetes, cataracts and even osteoporosis. Smoking can also make it harder for a woman to get pregnant and a woman who smokes during her pregnancy risks the chance of killing her unborn baby and if not, risks the chance of having a premature or abnormal baby. Men that smoke a lot risk a higher chance of developing erectile dysfunction at an early age. The article from the Center for Disease Control (2016), strengthens both these articles. The article investigates the link between smoking and cancer, of how smoking can weaken the immune system and also similar to what the first article had stated about how the DNA becomes affected by cigarette smoke and can often cause cells to mutate and grow uncontrollably, forming cancerous tumors. According to the CDC, if everyone stopped smoking, 33.33% of deaths from cancer would have been reduced in the US alone. 
Although, people say that smokers sometimes do not get affected by lung cancer or any cancer type, it does not make smoking harmless. Over the years there have been instances when smokers have died natural deaths or have lived their life without being victims to cancer. So they might say that smoking and cancer have no correlation as they were unaffected. But their assertion may not be entirely correct as because this percentage of unaffected people is really small. According to the American Lung Association, men who smoke are 23 times more likely to get cancer and women who smoke are 13 times greater to get cancer. So the percentage of non smokers who are not affected by cancer is very less. 
From this information it is safe to deduce that smoking and cancer do have a correlation. If more people know about this, they could refrain from smoking or tell others about it. This will reduce number of smokers hence number of diseases due to smoking and also cancer. Those who do not smoke can learn more about it and become more cautious about avoiding smoking. Smokers can gain more knowledge on this and reduce smoking or even quit. This will have great effects on their health and will push towards reducing harmful effects due to smoking on human health and the environment. With more information on this topic, researchers will also be benefitted by the findings on this topic. Therefore, I would like to know about the effects smoking has on lungs, what carcinogenic agents cigarettes contain, the effects of the carcinogenic agents on lungs, if the effects can lead to cancer and many more. With these research I hope to be more enlightened about smoking and its relation to cancer. 
Citations: 
1. Lung Cancer Fact Sheet. (n.d.). Retrieved April 16, 2016, from http://www.lung.org/lung-health-and-diseases/lung-disease-lookup/lung-cancer/learn-about-lung-cancer/lung-cancer-fact-sheet.html 
2. How smoking causes cancer. (2015). Retrieved April 01, 2016, from http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/causes-of-cancer/smoking-and-cancer/how-smoking-causes-cancer 
3. Harms of Cigarette Smoking and Health Benefits of Quitting. (n.d.). Retrieved April 01, 2016, from http://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/tobacco/cessation-fact-sheet 
4. Smoking and Cancer. (2016). Retrieved April 01, 2016, from http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/diseases/cancer.html 
5. Siepmann, J. P., MD. (n.d.). Smoking does not cause lung cancer, WHO 1999 statistics. Editorial from the Journal of Theoretics. Retrieved April 26, 2016, from http://www.journaloftheoretics.com/editorials/vol-1/e1-4.htm 
