Writing Argumentative Paper, draft 1 
Engl 106i 
4/ 2 /2016 
Digital Privacy & Information Security 
After the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, US Government has taken spying to a new level. A month later, President George Bush signed the USA Patriot Act. In 2011, President Barack Obama renewed the Patriot Act. The Act expanded the government's right to conduct surveillance in order to improve security. Since then, FBI and National Security Agency (NSA) has been conducting data collection. It's this surveillance of private emails, phone calls and internet activities that has upset many American and risen the question "Should the government spy on its citizen?" 
According to Darrel West, director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution, when the Patriot Act was first passed, it was supported by most people, now, after a decade, people began to worry and wanted to scale it back (Kelly, 2015). However, I believed that the government can and should continue spying. 
In the history, when there were not many countries and cities, people could travel around easily, doing trading or going on an adventure without having a passport or citizenship. At that time, they might believe that the land, the island and the continent were open to everyone and they could do whatever they could with those vast resources. Then, there emerged countries, borders and of course law. After that, travelling between countries means going through many security checks, buying a plot of land requires many complicated papers. All these restriction and law happens because the government wants to protect its own nation and increase safety. 
Nowadays, Internet has been growing stronger and wider. It has become a second world and is running in parallel with this current world or reality. Internet seems to belong to everyone, and give freedom and power to people. At the same time, the Internet is also wild and not strictly controlled. As Roger A. Grimes, a security adviser puts, internet crimes is worse than ever and the reasons are clear: it's highly lucrative and far less risky than old-fashioned bank heist. Often, there is high chance of physical thieves getting caught and being jailed for a long time because they usually carried guns, did injuries and hostage. In contrast, the typical Internet hacker gets much less money than physical ones, yet, he commits thousands to hundreds of thousands of these crimes and almost never gets caught. If they get caught, they will probably serve a few year in low-security facility (Grimes, 2012). 
As a rule of nature development throughout the history, like other resources, the Internet also needs to be secured and controlled by the government. Doing this will help increase the safety of people's life and property, while minimizing the loss of cyber attacks in the long run. 
What is more, Islamic State (ISIS), a notorious terrorist group, has aimed to expand its global reach. In the past two months, the group has successfully targeted Paris, Beirut and a Russian passenger plane. ISIS's one way of employing people is through social network or some secret websites. Fortunately, Facebook and Twitter have suspended this group online activities. Yet, there are still many ways for IS to persuade the people to join them. Furthermore, ISIS has looked to expand its online capabilities in order to carry out cyber attack against U.S. targets, including the federal government and airplanes (Kavanaugh, 2015). According to some security expert, although this group has not been able to do serious damage, I believe a lesson of 9/11 is enough for the government to gear up to prevent horrific attacks rather than spending money for recovery. 
Many people have said that the government's surveillance violates the Internet freedom and human rights because telephone and internet is their property and the government is not allowed to spy on them. However, in the Fourth Amendment, it is said that "but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.". The US Supreme Court has made it clear that this privacy protection does cover government eavesdropping. As a result, all electronic surveillance by the government in the US is illegal, unless it falls under one of a small number of exceptions. 
What is more, the government only targets and put more pressure on those who have high crime coefficient or potential to commit a crime. But even so, there is a limitation to government's surveillance. An example of this is the Boston Marathon bombing on April 15, 2013 carried out by two brothers Tsarnaev. Prior to the bombing, US government was warned by Russia, the FBI had questioned him, the CIA has placed him in their terrorist database, he read Al Qaeda's online magazine and watched Islamist videos on You Tube (bluto211, 2013). It took three days after the bombing to find photos and security videos of the brothers, and even then law enforcement did not have their names. Judging from that, if a citizen is cleaner than Tsarnaev, he has no fear for being on government's list. 
In addition, one does not have to fear that the government may abuse this power of spying on people. As now, there are currently two branches, executive branch and legislative branch. The executive branch, although powerful, must ensure the Congress is informed of activities. Working together, the two branches can check upon one another and ensure that both legally, and by policy. 
In conclusion, I acknowledge that there are good reasons for people to fight for their digital privacy, I would rather let the government monitor people and avoid major problems in the future rather than thinking about privacy in the short run. Of course, we should be given a certain freedom, but I don't think the surveillance would do harm than good because it is executed by law and strictly under check of another part of the government. 
