The Production to Be Popular-Electric vehicles 
Electric vehicles, which are seen to be the tendency of future, is not so popular in the vehicle market nowadays. Just like the best game but no one played. For they have so many benefits, once the obstacle of battery technology has been resolved, electric vehicles will be so popular in the vehicle market. 
The benefits for environment of electric vehicles is significant. Unlike normal gasoline vehicles, electric vehicles doesn't consume any fossil fuel. If they become popular, the consumption of gasoline in the whole world range will decrease observably, for gasoline vehicles used a great part of the gasoline produced in the worldwide. With no fuel combustion in the motor, they can be non-air-pollution. Meanwhile, the electromotor produced less and less noise than gasoline motor. They can make our world less annoying noisy, make the road more pleasant. When all gasoline vehicles have been replaced by electric vehicles, the city road won't be hot and uncomfortable anymore, and people have the opportunity to make the city much more comfortable. Because the most great part of pollutant resource in a city, the vehicles pollution, has disappeared. (1664-1667) 
Although there may be some people argued that electric vehicles still need some energy, they don't use natural resource, but the production of electricity still consume natural resource, what the expert said is that the producing process of electric vehicles is much more environment-friendly. That's because compared to producing the right amount energy within each gasoline vehicles, producing the same electricity they need in a big power station results in less resource waste and helps to control the pollutant release better. 
The performance benefits of electric vehicles, which is great too, can be shown by data. One of the best electric vehicles, Tesla Model S, have an attractive specification. It can speed up from 0 to 60 mph in 3. 7 seconds and travel more than 300 miles without being charged. That's a amazing goal! What's more, Tesla Model S can adapt all of 110, 220 and 440 volt of voltage, vests it great suitability. And the charging time is short, as well, can be finished 80% in on half a hour. All this data shows that the benefits of electric vehicles. From performance aspect, they have transcend gasoline vehicles in almost all areas. (36-38, 40, 42-44) 
The benefits of electric vehicles is great. There is no reason for them to be unpopular except their high price. In all ages, consumer take price as a big concern. For the price of electric vehicles' prices is much higher than the prices of electric vehicles, there is no way for electric vehicles to be popular in the market. The past research indicated that the greatest factor of high electric vehicle's price is the high cost of battery cost. Dr. Hylton stated that the battery technology hasn't been developed for really a long time. And the producing procedure needs rare metal, which is very expensive. That makes the cost of battery become the biggest part of the cost of whole vehicle. 
Electric vehicles have so much benefits. No matter the low output of air pollutant and noise or the high performance, they are all very attractive benefits. So they should be popular in the vehicle market. What obstacle the popularity is the high price. So with the improvement of battery technology, the cost will get down and electric vehicles will be popular one day. 
Work Cited 
To be added. 
