Online booking? It matters 
With the significant increase of people who come back during Spring Travel Rush every year, booking offices are extremely overwhelmed. Many people complained that they could hardly get the tickets unless they arrived at the ticket booth three hours in advance. Besides, they have to suffer from the bad, cold weather during the long waiting. Fortunately, there is a new policy these years, which is stated that people can buy tickets online now Anonymous, 2013, p.2. While many migrant workers may claim that they do not have access to the online booking because of the low economic condition and computer knowledge, I, on the other hand, firmly believe that booking tickets online is a much better method, which can not only improve the efficiencies and opportunities of buying tickets, but also prevent some bad guys, such as scalpers, from reselling tickets in an illegal way. 
To begin with, there is no doubt that booking tickets online can relieve the burden of buying. In other words, it divides the method of getting tickets into two ways: online shop and real booth, which means that people can have tickets more easily. Now, people do not have to wait outside the booking office in the early, cold morning. The only thing they need to do is clicking their mice and waiting a minute in front of the browser. Therefore, it is much more convenient than before. However, some migrant workers argued that they do not have chances to book online, because some of them even do not have computers. So they hold the opinion that this new policy does not provide them with any benefits. Obviously, this view is not correct. In spite of the fact that they seems not to be the direct beneficiaries, they also get much benefits, because in essence, booking tickets online reduce the total number of people getting tickets from booth. Many people, such as college students, have the abilities to book tickets online, which means some parts of people does change their traditional buying methods. Consequently, although many migrant workers might not have access to the "Online" policy, they still have more opportunities to buy tickets from booking hall. 
In addition, cracking down on ticket scalpers efficiently is another advantage of buying tickets online, which is also very beneficial to migrant workers. In the early days, there were many scalpers who bought tickets and resell them in a very high expense, which did great harms to passengers. Migrant workers, who have lower economic conditions, are the most serious victims. Although they are staffs in the very basic levels, they have to spend more money to get the unfair tickets, because they often told there were no tickets when it was their turns Lu, 2015, p3. In contrast, now, people do not need to worry about whether they can get tickets anymore. As for those people who have the abilities to book tickets online, they just need to reserve the tickets by clicking the mice. It is much more convenient for them to get tickets and they will never meet with scalpers again. Moreover, as for migrant workers, they can also buy tickets more easily, because there will not be as many as people waiting outside the booking hall. Due to the fact that many people transfer their buying method from real booth to online shop, the number of people waiting in the line outside the booth will be reduced dramatically. Accordingly, the waiting time will also be reduced and the chances to get their desirable tickets are more probably. 
In conclusion, everyone will benefit with this new policy. Buying tickets online is a new remarkable way that is very different from the traditional method. However, it does appear to work. It is obvious that this method relieves the buying flow to a great extent, which is very helpful to buyers. Both college students and migrant workers can get tickets more easily and conveniently by choosing their own methods. Moreover, this method also prevent scalpers from reselling the tickets to get high, illicit money. People buying tickets online can completely avoid meeting with scalpers. Besides, as for people who choose traditional method, they can also pay in reasonable fares. They do not need to concern whether they can get tickets, because there are enough tickets now. 
Reference 
Anonymous. 2013, December 16. New Policies for Spring Travel Rush. Retrieved from: 
http://www.chnrailway.com/html/20131216/326519.shtml 
Lu Y. 2015. The Signal Behind Spring Travel Rush Market. Retrieved from: 
	http://www.asrbs.net/site1/asrb/html/2015-02/16/content_597448.htm 
