P05D01 Argumentative Essay 
April 14, 2015. 
	In this era of modernism, excessive development have cause a potential threat not only to the future generation of humanity but the present generation as well. The current society is so driven to advance rapidly and their persistency to do so has led to a massive problem that is a serious threat to Mother Nature - air pollution. Air pollution is considered one of the most harmful pollution compared to other types of pollution. However, despite air pollution already being such a harmful phenomena to humans, there is only a small fraction of people working together to help reduce or improve the current situation. In order for this situation to improve, society should practice good habits to conserve whatever unharmed clean air resources that are left for the future generation. 
	One of the main reasons air pollution is on the rise is because the increase daily usage in transportation especially personal vehicles such as cars. Because owning a car has grown to become a necessity in the current society to get from one place to another, there has been a huge increase in demand for personal vehicles. According to a research regarding worldwide vehicle ownership and income growth, there is an observed upward trend where vehicle ownership increased from 400 vehicles per 1000 people in the 1960's to over 800 vehicles per 1000 people in year 2002. Similar trends are also observed in the Asian and European region. The increase in vehicle usage cause carbon dioxide and other emissions to be released in the air and thus humans are exposed to it. In order to overcome this problem, we should practice the habit of car-pooling and utilizing the public transportation available such as buses and trains. By doing so, we not only help improve air pollution but we get to save money as well. The demand for personal vehicles would then decrease thus the manufacturers would not produce as many vehicles. 
	When the demand for personal vehicles decreases, the manufacturers would also produce less vehicles. This would also reduce the amount of factories and plants needed to produce the vehicles. This reduction in required factories and building plants for manufacturing would then reduce deforestation of a lot of rainforests. This would mean that there would be more trees to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen. This would indirectly reduce air pollution and improve air quality for humans to breathe. To improve it further, trees planting events should be organized to further populate the forests. In the long-term, this can preserve the clean air for the future generation. 
	Some parties may argue that the reduction of plants and factories may cause an uproar due to the possible hike in the unemployment rate. The highly unemployment rate would then cause the poverty level to increase which will decrease the standards of living for many. However, these problems can be overcome by the government reintroducing recycling habits. The government can encourage active recycling habits by starting a program which rewards people for recycling their recyclable items. Following the increase in the recycling habit, there would be a higher need for the expansion of recycling centers all over the country. This expansion would then create more jobs for people in the society which will indirectly contra most of the jobs lost in the beginning. This attempt might be seen as a long-shot but given time and continuous effort between organizations and the government, it is highly likely to happen because the habit of recycling is not the introduction of an entirely new concept to the people but just merely an upgraded continuity of what has already been practiced for some time now. 
	Air pollution took a long period of time to develop and worsen. People need to know the severity of this matter if it is allowed to go on. People seem to take this matter lightly as its effects are still not jeopardizing a big part of their lives yet. But the longer we wait, the longer the amount of time it will definitely take for it to be restored to its original state. To ensure that, governmental and non-governmental associations as well as the general public must cohesively work together in order to improve the current air quality. It will only slow down the process if there is no corporation between any of the parties involved. When we are united and driven towards the cause, we can change so many things to preserve whatever natural resources we have left. 
