4/17/2016 
			Is it worth to develop artificial intelligence? 
	About two months ago, Lee Sedol, the top player of game of Go, was defeated by an artificial intelligence created by Deepmind company. However, knowing that "Go" is considered one of the most difficult and complex game to play, I was so astonished that artificial intelligence today is so powerful. After all, as the role of artificial intelligence becoming more important over time, it has been changing our life without our notice. According to Oxford Dictionary, artificial intelligence is the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks that normally require human intelligence. Such as, a calculator helps students to solve algebra problems in a very short time. Some software can recognize your voice and type what you said automatically which have saved a lot of time and improved students work efficiency. Artificial intelligence has a great impact from people's daily life to many research areas and developing artificial intelligence is essential for human being not only because it can perform as labor force to reinforce working efficiency, but also because AI can help people to invent new things. 
However, there are some people believe that there will be potential risks for AIs if they are well-developed enough. For instance, the Give Well organization claimed that: "The technology could be weaponized or used as a tool for social control. (1)". Also, it is claimed by Give Well that someone might invent a very "powerful" artificial intelligence that could develop a destructive way to achieve its goal. This article will be focusing on listing advantages of developing artificial intelligence and give examples from the former research I did to show that we should keep developing artificial intelligence. Also, potential opposing views to my argument will be included and there will be refutations of those oppositions. 
	One of the many reasons that I think computer programmers should develop artificial intelligence is that AI enhances people's work efficiency and productivity in a significant way. According to the definition of AI that <name> gave in the former interview, AI is computer programs that solve what used to be considered "only human solvable problems". Which means that artificial intelligence can help people to do work iteratively thus increase the productivity and make people's life easier. For example, with the problem of companies keep sending promotion and advertisements to users' email inboxes, it is really hard to select information that users really need from hundreds of junk mail every day. However, artificial intelligence can make this situation better. In the book "Artificial Intelligence", the author Peter Norvig introduced an example of artificial intelligence as "spam filter". According to Norvig, "Over ninety percent of all email sent today is spam. If that were reflected in the contents of your inbox, email would be unusable. (15)". However, the "spam filter" can distinguish the "features" of spam by recording the words appear frequently, such as "great deal" or "clearance" in junk mails that users reported to keep new emails with those features of words away. However, saving email from junk mails is definitely not the only way to apply artificial intelligence and take advantage of it. There are tons of applications of artificial intelligence that works perfectly well, such as "Google map" on your smartphone would give the most time-saving route for you to drive home, the software "Word" form Microsoft corrects your grammatical problem automatically. Artificial intelligence has already done a lot of work for us indeed. 
	Knowing that artificial intelligence can make my daily life a lot easier, as a student, I also acknowledge that AIs have made a great contribution on education area. For instance, there is a program called LOGO that introduced by MIT 25 years ago which is proved can help children to learn. However, LOGO is still being used after 25 years. Miranda Robertson defined LOGO as a high level language for children to program on various devices. She implied that Children first start to learn how to draw rectangles or triangles on LOGO, as they get more well-informed of the system, it can be used to teach more complex math problems. The most significant advantage of the LOGO system is that "Children enjoy working with it" so that LOGO can be used to "overcome the resistance that many children develop to learning mathematics. (98)" However, the main idea is that artificial intelligence can make children learn skills in a vivid and descriptive way by display the procedure of learning more explicit than a normal teacher can do. Which makes children find learning interesting and more easy to accept. Although LOGO system is still being used today, I believe that there will be more amazing software that can contribute better on education area with the development of artificial intelligence. 
	In about 50 years of AI history, there are also some concerns of developing artificial intelligence. One of the potential opposition claimed by Mike Fekety would be the cost caused by the maintenance and repair of the machines like computer hardware, and the cost of updating the programs to make them "smarter". However, in my point of view, the value that AIs have made should be far greater than the cost currently, because there are so many companies using artificial intelligence to make profit, if the cost is greater than the revenue that AIs make, those companies should be already bankrupted. Fekety also stated that "They(AIs) are not able to act any different from what they are programmed to do. (69)". However, it is somehow an advantage of artificial intelligence, because it means that AIs can process information and do work without bias. 
	While gaining so much benefits, some movies remind us that there may be some potential threats in the future of artificial intelligence. Andrew Lohn claimed that: "2015 has truly been the year of fictional AI provocateurs and villains with blockbuster movies including Terminator Genisys, Ex-Machina, and The avengers: Age of Ultron." These concerns from movies may be reasonable, but they can be manageable. There are many ways to prevent artificial intelligences from being destructive. According to Lohn, the best way to provide enough safeguard is to regulate AI itself, such as, "requiring the development of testing protocols for the design of AI algorithms", "improving cybersecurity protections" and "input validation standards". I believe that scientists must be able to control AIs because when they are updating artificial intelligences, the methods to regulate those AIs should be updated. 
	In conclusion, there are many cases to show that artificial intelligence is progressing humans' society, and there are not many great drawbacks that we can't manage of developing AIs. Therefore, artificial intelligence is worth developing because it is already making remarkable contribution to human being. 
Reference: 
Fekety, Mike. "Pros and Cons of Artificial Intelligence." Linkedin 11 Aug. 2015. Web. 17. Apr.	2016. 
Lohn, Andrew. "How We Can Overcome the Risks of AI." Time 22 Oct. 2015. Web. 30. Apr.	2016. 
Norvig, Peter. "Artificial Intelligence." New Scientist. 216. 2889 11 Mar. 2012. Web. 13	Mar.2016. 
"Potential risks from advanced artificial intelligence." Give Well. Give Well, aka The Clear Fund,	Aug. 2015. Web. 30. Apr. 2016. 
Robertson, Miranda. "Artificial Intelligence in Education." Nature. 262.5568(1976): 435-37. 	Web. 13 Mar. 2016. 
1 
