Chinese Eating Behaviors 
	Obesity becomes a global problem and people have to treat it seriously. The reason that many people become fat is they have unhealthy eating behaviors such as skipping breakfast, eating fast-food a lot, etc. Today, many people believe that those unhealthy eating behaviors mostly happen in the developed countries. However, as a person who was born in China, I say that Chinese people have a lot of bad eating behaviors and a lot of them are overweight in today's world. Since many Chinese people become rich now, they eat a lot of snacks today. Also, because of the growing of fast food restaurants, Chinese people eat much fast food due to its convenience. Furthermore, grandparents in China provide their grandchildren too much food so the grandchildren have the bad eating behavior about eating too much. According to all the claims above, it is easy to imagine that a lot of people are gaining weight in China right now and they are suffering from obesity. 
	Now you know the generally idea about my essay, let's talk about what unhealthy eating behaviors that Chinese people have. 
	First, Chinese people become rich so they buy too many snacks to eat. There is no doubt that Chinese economy is growing rapidly nowadays. And because of that, Chinese people have more money to consume. Nevertheless, most of snacks are not very healthy to people, some of them can even hurt people if they are ate too much. Some people may argue this statement that there are many poor people in China still have not enough food to eat, so obviously they won't have money to buy snacks. It is true that plenty of people are still poor in China, but as I said, Chinese economy is growing, most of people in Chinese poor areas still have money to get food to eat. However, for the snack they choose, they prefer to buy cheap snacks such as snack noodle and spicy bar. Those kinds of food made mainly with starch and they contains excess sodium so they are bad for people's healthy. Overall, no matter where people live in China at present, they all have great chances to intake superfluous snacks. 
	Second, Chinese people eat fast food a lot today and they become obesity. According to Tony 2011, Chinese people have less time to make food on their own since they are very busy. Therefore, a huge amount of fast food restaurants appear to meet people's demand. According to Michelle 2013, "The Chinese fast-food industry is now the fifth-largest in the world", "KFC opened its 4,000th restaurant in China". All of these evidences show that Chinese people love fast food and they have a huge demand on it. Michelle 2013 also stated that "KFC, and other brands like Mc Donald's, are also being held responsible for a growing epidemic of obesity in the nation of 1. 3 billion. And there may be a link between China's breakneck development and its weight gain". It is possible that Chinese obesity has a strong relationship with the growing of fast food restaurant. 
	Last but not least, According to Jingxiong, Rosenqvis, Huishan, Greiner, Guangli & Sarkadi 2006, grandparents have huge influence on forming their grandchildren's eating behaviors, mostly in a bad way. Also according to the interview from my mom <name>, personal communication, October 31, 2015, grandparents like to make a too much food for their grandchildren so their grandchildren become fat. One of my older brother was raised by my grandparents. He was fed almost five meals a day because my grandparents said they didn't want their grandchildren feel hungry at all. They also said they like their grandchildren look fat because they think fat mean healthy. Finally he is over 242 pounds now. He eats a lot of food but he still says he is hungry. I think the reason is he was fed too much when he was young and he couldn't change his eating behaviors anymore. At this time, some people would argue that they don't think grandparents play a bad role on forming teenagers' eating behaviors. Actually grandparents make a lot of good food for people and let them eat healthily. Even though grandparents may make healthy food for their grandchildren, that still doesn't change the fact that they provide too much food for young people. The more food you eat, the more calories you will intake. Finally you still gain weight, whether the food is healthy or not. 
	In short, Chinese eating behaviors is not healthy right not due to the taking of snacks, fast food, and the impact from grandparents. And because of these bad eating behaviors, many people become fat and they need to change their behaviors as soon as possible. My suggestion is avoid fast food, eat less snacks because they are not necessary. Instead try to eat Chinese traditional food since they contains more vegetables, less oil and red meat. Finally we should teach a lesson for our grandparents. We can show them the picture that how bad eating behaviors affect people's health and teach them how to avoid that. Also we should tell them that fat doesn't mean strong or healthy, in fact fat will create many health issue, sometimes even kill people. 
Reference 
Jingxiong, J., Rosenqvis, U., Huishan, W., Greiner, T., Guangli, L. & Sarkadi, A. 2006. Influence of grandparents on eating behaviors of young children in Chinese three-generation families. Appetite 48 377-383 
Retrieved from: http://ac.els-cdn.com/S0195666306006325/1-s2.0-S0195666306006325-main.pdf?_tid=eb6d6bbe-75f2-11e5-b1ea-00000aab0f6b&acdnat=1445212369_6fb01ea5733b6e390052c391ef479607 
Michelle Flor Cruz 2013, Effects Of A Rapid-Growth Economy: China's Booming Fast Food Culture Takes Its Toll On Health. Retrieved from: http://www.ibtimes.com/effects-rapid-growth-economy-chinas-booming-fast-food-culture-takes-its-toll-health-photos-1155083 
Tony D'Altorio 2011, Fast-Food Culture Grows in China. Retrieved from: http://www.investmentu.com/article/detail/18380/fast-food-culture-grows-in-china#. Vl DAN3p Vh Bc 
