24 April 2016 
Confucian teaching methods should be applied to the college education at Purdue 
If you ask Chinese who was the most famous teacher in Chinese history, I think most of them will tell you: Confucius. Confucius, who was a famous teacher, politician, and philosopher of China, was born in 551 BC. At that time, war erupted frequently, and most of people engaged in getting power and wealth from the war, neglecting learning knowledge and enhancing self- cultivation. As a result, Confucius chose to become a teacher in order to teach and encourage more people to learn knowledge. He discovered and applied many his own teaching methods to teach his students and as a result, helped his students make a great progress. Some of his famous students like Zilu and Yanhui all become high officials in the end. His teaching methods are recorded in the book Lun Yu by his students after he dead. However, here comes a question, can we still take advantage of Confucian teaching methods nowadays to enhance our teaching efficiency and quality at Purdue? In my opinion, we can still apply these three Confucian teaching methods in university education at Purdue: "Yin cai shi jiao", "You jiao wu lei" and "Wen gu zhi xin". In this research paper, I will first give a brief introduction of these three most famous Confucian teaching methods, then analyze how Confucius applied these three teaching methods historically and finally I will give supporting evidence to my opinion. 
First of all, let's look at the definition of these three Confucian teaching methods and how Confucius applied these teaching methods historically. From Xinyu He, a professor in Xichang university, whose article was published in Xichang university newspaper, "Yin cai shi jiao" means using different teaching methods to teach different students according to their characteristics and family and education backgrounds. (1) According to Lunyu, in the history, Confucius divided his students into different groups according to their education backgrounds and attitudes of study etc. For example, some students understand that study was beneficial to him and as result be positive to study. However, some students thought that the success in the war is far more important than learning knowledge and was not willing to use time in learning. Regarding different groups, Confucius would use different teaching methods to teach. For example, when teaching those students who were not willing to learn, Confucius would try to let them understand the importance of learning the same time he taught them knowledge. This is different when Confucius taught those students who was positive to study. 
Second, according to Huiying Wang, a history professor in Hei He college, whose article was published in Heihe college newspaper, "Wen gu zhi xin" means that we can enhance our understanding of the knowledge we have already learned by reviewing them (2). Historically, Confucius always asked his students to review what they learned to enhance their understanding of knowledge points. According to Lunyu, once a time, Confucius taught his students how an emperor set a law to govern the country. The first day, students only understood that the law were set based on the political needs. However, on the next day, when students reviewed this knowledge and re-thought about it, they understood that the law was always set based on the economy need. By reviewing the knowledge again and again, Confucian students learned more in depth than before. 
Third, from Mingfeng Bai's, who was an educator in China, whose article was published in Education explore, ""You jiao wu lei" means teachers should treat their students equally regardless their backgrounds and personalities" (1). As Bai said in his article, Confucian students have different family backgrounds. Some of their families are rich or own great powers and some of them are too poor to pay the tuition. However, once Confucius decided to teach a student, he would use same attitudes and efforts to treat them no matter what's their backgrounds are. 
After having a brief recognition and knowledge of these three teaching methods, next I will illustrate why I think that we can still apply these three teaching methods to the university education at Purdue. 
First of all, the reason I suggest to apply "Yin cai shi jiao" to the university education at Purdue is because "Yin cai shi jiao" can help students improve the learning efficiency. For example, students at Purdue are coming from more than 100 countries currently. Based on the website realclear.com, students from eastern countries like China, Korea are usually introverted and not good at expressing their ideas in class, since in their high school, the classes were lecture-based. However, local students or students from western countries are active and extroverted since in the high school, their teachers encouraged them to interact. Thus, when Purdue's teachers meet students from eastern countries, they should encourage them to express their ideas and to speak to teachers whenever problems they met in study. As a result, teachers can help them solve the problems and enhance their learning efficiency. Based on this example and how did Confucius applied this teaching method, I think teachers should analyze each student's characteristics and background at first and set up different study plans according to the differences. As a result, each student can learn knowledge in a method that is most proper to him and finally the learning efficiency will be improved. 
Second, I suggest to apply "Wen gu zhi xin" to the university education because this teaching method can help students overcome the limit of intelligence. According to philosopher, Micah's article, human intelligence is limited, and students need reviewing to give their brain more time and opportunities to think and understand knowledge points in depth (1). Based on Micah's article, I think Wang gave a good solution to overcome the limit of human intelligence. "Just like teaching a formula in calculus, the first time when students learned it, they may only knew how to apply it. However, when they reviewed it again, they may understand why this formula is right and what the relation between this formula and other formulas." (2). Based on the example Wang gave in her article, I think "Wen gu zhi xin" is a good method to help students enhance understanding of knowledge and overcome the limit of human intelligence. Thus, we should apply this teaching method to the university education at Purdue. 
Third, I also suggest to apply "You jiao wu lei" to the university education at Purdue. As far as I am concerned, treating students equally regardless their family background is a teacher's responsibility. For example, I met a teacher before, who show inpatient to answer my question because my English was not so good. However, as a teacher, you should be responsible and use your full effort to treat all of your students equally. I think each student is a part of a teacher's job, thus, if a teacher want to be responsible to their job, he should be responsible to all of his students. I did an interview with a history professor <Name> in Beijing Normal University. Zhou argued that responsibility is an essential factor to measure a teacher. If a teacher is not responsible, the teaching quality is not guaranteed. Thus, she mentioned, students in her university will be asked whether they feel be treated differently by a teacher at the end of each semester by using a questionnaire. Her university conducted this research in each semester to guarantee teachers treat students equally and be responsible to all students. (<Name>. Personal Interview, 26, March, 2016). 
Up till now, I have analyzed why I think that we can apply these three teaching methods to the university education. 
However, I also acknowledge an opposite opinion about applying "Wen gu zhi xin" to the university education. From the internet, some people argued that the updating of knowledge is very fast nowadays. Thus, we should focus more on learning new knowledge instead of using time reviewing old knowledge. However, I also held the opinion that the updated knowledge is based on current knowledge. Thus, in order to learn new knowledge well, we need to have a good understanding of current knowledge and use them lay a foundation for our further learning. Since reviewing can help us enhance the understanding of old knowledge and contribute to the learning of knowledge, thus, we still need to apply 'Wen gu zhi xin" to university education nowadays. 
All in all, based on above analysis, I think we can still apply these three Confucian teaching methods to the university education at Purdue, since all of these three methods are still have their values nowadays. Thus, for certain classes, like calculus, which contain 200 students per class currently, Purdue can reduce it size to let teachers set different teaching plans according to different students groups. Meanwhile, I think Purdue should also give teachers some explanation to let them understand why these three teaching methods are valuable and then they can apply these three methods to Purdue. 
1. Bai, Mingfeng. "Confucius the Inspirations We Can Get from "You jiao wu lei" 
for Rural Area Education." Education Explore 1 (2001): 24-25. 
2. He, Xinyu. "What Inspirations We Can Get from Confucius's Teaching 
Methods." Xichang College Newspaper 18. 1 (2006): 54-59. 
3. Wang, Hui Ying. "Wen Gu Zhi Xin in Chinese Teaching." Heihe Education 2 
(2000): 31. 
5. Hyun, Jisoo. "4 Big Differences in American and Asian Education Norms." Real Clear. Web. 26 Apr. 2016. 
6. Kang, Jun. Lunyu. Print. 
7. Micah J Glasser. "Event Horizon: The Limits of Human Intelligence." Event 
Horizon. 30 Nov. 2005. Web. 20 Apr. 2016. 
