Final Draft 
December 5th, 2015 
Music is Important to Human Society 
Stephen Fry, an English comedian who wrote the number one bestselling book in Britain titled "Moab is my Washpot," once said, "Music is nothing and is in fact the dog's bullocks. It is useless, and no limit can be set on its use" (Fry, 1997, p.113). Some people argue that music is only for the sake of pleasure and does not serve any purpose. This paper will support the argument on why music is crucial to human society using examples of research in the field to support its claims. Its power will be revealed through examples of multicultural music practices, studies of music's influence on human consciousness, and research regarding its impact on learning and memory. The intent is for the reader to arrive at a new perspective on the power and potential of music to heal the world, one individual at a time. 
One of the leading researchers in how music moves the brain and coordinates its primary functions is a professor of neurology at NYU school of medicine, Dr. Oliver Sacks (Sacks, 2007, p. 1). He mentioned in his book titled Musicophilia that an individual was struck by lightning, and the impact of this on his brain's synaptic connections actually caused him to become a piano prodigy in his early 40s. Another case involved an individual whose memory only lasted seven seconds, with the only exception being music. Dr. Oliver Sacks' work is pivotal in honing in on exactly what makes music such a profound healer and instrument of recovery and rehabilitation. In some of Dr. Sacks' work, he observes how music heals and rehabilitates the brain and replaces diseases with normal neurological conditions. One woman was suffering from temporal lobe tumors which produced episodes during which she would change dimensions. Following surgery to remove the tumors, she became increasingly attracted to all kinds of music. Music therapy became her refuge and sanctuary. Salimah, the woman in question, "showed a drastic transformation from being only vaguely interested in music to being passionately excited about music and in continual need of it" (Sacks, 2007, p. 10). Some shift had taken shape in her healed brain and her rehabilitation was clearly enhanced by the power of music and its underlying mathematics of precision and beauty which further enhanced her recovery process. 
Music is non-denominational. It does not require religious philosophy or belief to have a spiritual effect. As one author writes, "Music is not designed to engender trance or invoke spiritual powers, and no assessment other than that of oneself is carried out to discover the extent to which people are healed" (Richmond, 2011, p. 2). Music takes hold of the individual soul at each of these progressions throughout the day, causing people to pause, reflect on their journey, and commit to improving their lives and appreciate each moment that they are blessed to be alive. Music, in these cases, helps people achieve an "altered state of consciousness" and dissociate from their mundane activities to participate instead in something sacred that illuminates one's inner being. This passing of oral tradition and cultural heritage from one generation to the next is very prevalent in native African music. Music is the focal point at rites of passage and initiation for both women and men, and it narrates the passage of time in a person's journey. According to the African Studies Center at University of Cambridge in United Kingdom (Prince, 2013, p. 600), music in Africa is used in everyday activities and in numerous occasions. Similarly, tribes in South America make use of music to carry individuals safely through their experiences with "journey medicine" such as ayahuasca and psilocybin mushrooms. Music, in this situation, has the effect of creating a safe and secure environment for spiritual travelers, offering them peace, comfort, and consolation through what may be difficult or challenging parts of the journey with medicine. Music clearly delineates what makes us human and what unites us all with each other and with nature. 
Music also fosters and enhances learning in myriad ways. Learning to play instruments, for example, assists with computations and the brain's capacity for processing language and enhances one's ability to listen. According to a brain researcher, Nina Kraus, at Northwestern University, "music is a resource that tones the brain for auditory fitness" and "music training leads to changes throughout the auditory system that prime musicians for listening challenges beyond music processing"(William, 2010, p. 1). The power of music to enhance learning has been studied meticulously and reveals that it has a direct influence upon brain function. Author Marion Diamond, who wrote Magic Trees of the Mind, explains researcher Gordon Shaw's findings in simple terms by saying that, "The neurons in the brain have certain natural firing patterns that act as an internal neural language. These patterns can be mapped and also altered through learning and experience"(Chipongian, 2000, p.1). As a byproduct of working with and studying music, one's spatial-temporal reasoning and intelligence are improved. Neural passageways leading to new discoveries, understandings, interpretations, and truths are assessed and fortified by way of practice and repetition of patterns in music. It is clear that the complexity of music as well as musicians' extensive exposure to it provide researchers with ample territory to map out and configure according to their hypotheses regarding music's capacity to enhance neuroplasticity in human beings. Similar to learning, music enhances memory by way of forming synaptic connections that are repeated until they build bridges and pathways that lead to archives of information that are remembered. A researcher at the University of California, Davis, discovered that there is an actual region of the brain that "serves as a hub that links familiar music, memories, and emotion" (Davis, 2009, p.1). Our minds act as storage devices of short films. These short films contain our memories of things, people, and events. A song can sometimes evoke or elicit the memory of a particular person, place, or thing, so that each time we hear the same song, we associate it with a particular memory. In this way, music and memory are linked. 
Similarly, music is related to the rich emotions that coat our memories. Petr Janata, a UC Davis researcher, conducting a study to determine the link between music, memory, and emotion discovered that "tunes that were linked to the strongest, most salient memories were the ones that evoked the most vivid and emotion-laden responses" (Janata, 2009, p. 2). The region of the brain Janata talks about is a "hub" or central meeting place of music, memory, and emotion, located in the upper part of the medial pre-fontal cortex. After studying MRI scans and their images, following a study on music's capacity for eliciting emotion and memories, Janata detected extra-activity in this region of the brain. This would indicate a clear connection or bond between music, emotion, and memory. To amplify one of these ingredients is to elicit the activity and participation of the other two, that is to say, whether one studies the impact or influence of music, emotion, or memory, any of those candidates have the potential to excite the other two elements. This intrinsic association linking memories with music and emotions paves a path for potential cures, solutions, and problem-solving skills that have as yet not been approached or explored because they are so far-reaching in the human psyche. 
Weinberger (1997) states that music establishes some psychological effects that include the modification and induction of cognitive moods, states, and emotions (p.1). This is why lullabies are played to children and dirges do not grace weddings. Music therapy is defined as "the use of music to maintain, restore and improve the physiological, spiritual and emotional health of individuals. It can be used as a healing antidote since it affects the soul, mind and spirit (Holsinger, 2001, p. 48). The Solfeggio Frequencies are one shining example of music's power to heal and restructure the body, mind, and spirit to allow for maximum recovery and renewed health. According to author Karol Jankowiak, "Each Solfeggio tone comprises a frequency required to balance your energy and keep your body, mind, and spirit in perfect harmony" (Jankowiak, 2014, p. 3). Because these frequencies are capable of rearranging one's energy structure and imprint, they are often used during prayers and meditations by those who seek peace, healing, and resolution in their lives. These frequencies are sometimes subtly woven into larger melodies, hymns, and rhythms which have a healing effect on the consciousness of the listener. 
Musical notes, chord progressions, and rhythms can redirect our consciousness away from stored pain and ancient memories to the power of presence, when we are most ripe and ready to administer and receive the healing that reforms and revitalizes our lives. The Longwood Seminar "Music as medicine" attended by world-renowned medical experts at Harvard Medical School on 14th April 2015 further manifested that music is the new era cure for mental illnesses that should be researched on extensively. Music is a craft, a discipline, and is instrumental in teaching, creating, and healing. This paper has examined the ways in which music brings cultures together, enhances learning, improves brain function, and heals human consciousness. It has done so by way of studying multicultural music practices, touching upon research regarding musical frequency, tone, and vibration on human consciousness, and exploring studies showing the powerful impact music has upon brain function. It is a powerful healer, teacher, and guiding light in our individual and collective journey. 
