Is Death the most important theme in bringing out Meursault's personality in The Stranger by Albert Camus?
Brief Overview
Albert Camus has split the novel into two parts. The first part explores the death of Meursault's mother and Meursault's routine life. The second part explores Meursault's time spent in jail which I will discuss in more detail later in the essay.
The novel opens with Meursault receiving the terrible news of his mother's death. However, Meursault seems to be more concerned about the travel and transportation costs rather than the death itself. This is the first insight that readers get into his queer personality. During his mother's vigil, Meursault smokes and pays no attention to the funeral. The others at the funeral are repulsed and invigorated by his disrespectful behavior.
Meursault - the protagonist - had to send his mother off to an old-age home because he could not afford the time and the money to take care of her. He was a man that received average income and owned a very small apartment, barely enough to suit his needs, let alone his mother's. This act of sending his mother to an old-age home was deemed immoral by society.
The second significant event that is highlighted in part I of the novel, is Meursault's involvement with his neighbor - Raymond Sintes. Raymond and his girlfriend get into a feud involving domestic abuse. His girlfriend approaches the police for help while Raymond seeks help from Meursault. Raymond asks Meursault to help him write a letter to his girlfriend black mailing her to never contact him again. Soon after he sends the letter, the police shows up at his house and a huge scene is created.
Following this incident, Raymond invites Meursault to join him for a weekend getaway. Meursault agrees, and they go with a couple of friends to a beach house nearby. They realize that they are being stalked by Raymond's ex- girlfriend's brothers. However, nothing happens. The next day Meursault is in the beach, lounging around when he spots one of the brothers. He immediately reaches for the gun in his bag and shoots the brother.
Part II directly enters a scene in the courthouse. Meursault has been put in jail for murdering an Arab (the brother). The fact that the victim is Arab influences the story considerably because Arabs were treated badly at the time this novel was written. This also impacts the decision making process in the courthouse.
Meursault is too lazy to hire and seek his own attorney, so he sticks to the one appointed by the court. He explains his story, his origins and the event to the attorney. The attorney is perplexed by Meursault's ability to go on a vacation a week after his mother's death and his lack of grief towards the incident. Meursault questions the relevance of this lack of emotion towards the case in hand. Soon, the entire courthouse and the neighboring city hear about Meursault's stoic and callous nature. They are revolted and flabbergasted by his behavior. Ultimately, Meursault is hung to death, not for murdering an Arab, but for being the way that he is.
Reflective Background
Albert Camus was a philosophical writer who gained a lot of his inspiration from factors that influenced his life. Such influences are reflected throughout The Stranger.
The mood of pessimism was encouraged by political developments during the early 19th century. The world war caused much despair and woebegone. This gave birth to the theory of Absurdist which was largely advocated by Camus. Absurdist can essentially be defined as: The belief that human beings exist in a purposeless, chaotic world. It is one's responsibility to formulate a meaning in a meaningless life. Such an attitude is delineated through Meursault as his belief is to do or die and not to question why. Furthermore absurdist explains Meursaults insensitivity towards his mother's death, his superficial relationship with Marie and the murder of the Arab. Meursault's lack of meaning in life strongly contrasts his acceptance to live towards the end of the novel. This is can be viewed as Camus's portrayal of "Absurdist".
Camus and Meursault shared certain characteristics. For instance they both had a similar outlook towards life. They both were Pied Noirs who lived a substandard life. This can be inferred from the text as Meursault was unable to afford living with his mother, therefore he sent her to an old age home. He also lived in a small apartment which had 1 room. Camus's melancholic disposition towards the French is showcased through Meursault's reluctance to work in Paris.
Throughout The Stranger, Camus referred to Arabs simply by the word "Arab" instead of giving them a separate identity. The insignificance of the Arabs in the novel manifests itself as a form of discrimination. Moreover the minimal attention shown towards the Arab's death reemphasizes the fact that Arabs were not considered important. This discrimination was mirrored in Camus's environment where the Arabs were exploited harshly for their cheap labour by the French and were not given equal priority. The insight into the social background of Algeria during this time provides further insight of the discrimination in the novel.
Main Body
Loss and death are universal themes across literature, film, poetry etc. Authors use different methods and styles to highlight this theme, and add emotional depth to the reality portrayed in their works. Camus on the other hand, uses loss to highlight an unusual character's personality, in his work The Stranger. There are various instances of loss delineated in "The Stranger", primarily, the loss of Meursault's mother, the loss of the Arab, and the death of Meursault himself.
Meursault's reaction to his mother's death is unusual and alarming. He treats this fragile issue with immense nonchalance giving the impression of being a cold, distant and staid person. Meursault informs his manager that "It's not my fault" that he is missing work to attend his mother's funeral. This provides the readers with an idea that this funeral is merely an "excuse" and Meursault is obligated to attend it due to social customs. He may `also be defending the fact that he decided to send his mother to an old age home instead of taking personal care of her. We understand that he is not the type of person who likes to pin responsibility on others or accept blame himself.
Meursault smokes during the vigil without much hesitation. "I thought it over, it really didn't matter " . He believed that it was acceptable to smoke because his mother was dead and she couldn't possible protest against it. This highlights his inability to understand what is not only socially, but also morally correct. His emotional disconnect leads to his lack of respect for his mother, even on the day of her death.
Meursault recounted his weekend as something "so inevitable and natural that I don't remember any of it any more". His existentialist perspective of life is reflected in this quote. He views death as a natural and unavoidable phenomenon; he has no emotional value attached to the notion of death. "After all, nothing had changed" implies the fact that this loss did not impact his life significantly and he feels as though he has spent this weekend as he had spent any other weekend.
"I probably loved mother quite a lot, but that didn't mean anything" is his justification for not crying or not showing any grief during his mother's funeral. He believes that love is not strong enough to propel a person to cry at a funeral or to display an array of emotions. He further claims, "To a certain extent all normal people sometimes wished their loved ones were dead.". Despite the shocking things he says, we understand that he is a candid and honest man, with nothing to hide. His life is an open book. He does not feel the need to comply with societal norms or behave in a socially accepted manner. This unique and somewhat rebellious personality distinguishes him from the other members of society. However, it is this laid-back attitude that ultimately leads him to his own demise.
Meursault's reaction to the Arab's murder is extremely indifferent and difficult to comprehend as a reader. . "I knew that I had shattered the harmony of the day, the exceptional silence of a beach where I'd been happy. Then I fired four more times." He is more concerned about ruining a perfectly happy and peaceful day rather than killing a man. This makes Meursault appear selfish as his happiness is his main priority and there is no limit to what he will do to achieve it. He shot the Arab four more times, as the wrath of the sun was beating down upon him instilling anger in him. He took out the anger on the Arab for further irritating him. Physical aspects of life dominate the emotional aspects of life. Death is a very absurdist concept as although, we as human beings understand that death is ultimately inevitable, we still fear death and its consequences. Yet when death does occur, we are emotionally overwhelmed and unable to come to terms with it.
The sun is a metaphor for society in the novel. Just as the heat of the sun makes Meursault uncomfortable, so does the expectations of society. Society is unable to cope with Meursault's "existentialist" perspective of life. The existentialist perspective emphasizes on the idea that there is no Supreme Power influencing the sequences of actions that takes place on the Earth. Every event that happens is a result of the actions of an individual. Meursault accepts the fact that everything happens for a reason whether it is good or bad. The control of certain things in life is beyond the realms of human control. Hence, he readily accepts his mother's death and the loss of the Arab.
All living things eventually decease sooner or later. However, the sun will continue to engulf the earth in its vicious wrath of heat. The burning rays of the sun will never come to an end as far as our knowledge goes. Hence, the sun is a more powerful concept than death, therefore the sun affects Meursault more than the prospect of death. The heat of the sun drives Meursault to kill the Arab due to frustration and annoyance. He believes that "what's done is done". In Meursault's own words, "it was like knocking four quick times on the door of unhappiness". To him, death is the barrier to freedom, as no matter how a person lives, whether a person leads a happy like, an unhappy life, an honest life, an unfulfilling life, in the end, the person will die. Hence the journey of life itself is pointless as all people end up travelling to the same destination which is death. "The inescapability of death voids the very possibility of 'ultimate' or metaphysical freedom." Actions cannot be reversed, thus there is no point dwelling over what cannot be changed. This attitude may be helpful when it comes to petty, insignificant issues but not when it deals with death.
When it comes to his very own death, Meursault accepts his death and execution despite the fact that he is being sentenced to death for his indifferent attitude rather than committing a heinous crime of murdering an Arab for no reason at all. By not trying to redeem himself and his behavior in front of everyone in the court, Meursault is not only committing ordinary suicide but is also committing philosophical suicide. In order for Meursault to resume a peaceful and fairly normal life like he used to, he must completely transform himself and reinvent his personality to meet the societal requirements. By reinventing himself, Meursault is essentially destroying himself by transforming into a completely different person altogether. Either way, the true "him" is being disguised or murdered. "Is one going to die, escape by the leap, and rebuild a mansion of ideas and forms to one's own scale? Is one, on the contrary, going to take up the heart-rending and marvelous wager of the absurd?" Meursault objects to living a meaningless, unfulfilling life under the heavy scrutiny of society. He'd much rather die than live a life dictated by someone else.
In conclusion, several aspects of Meursault's personality have been revealed throughout the novel. The most prominent personality traits are his indifferent attitude towards emotional events, his absurdist and existential outlook on life. Death is an extremely significant theme in the novel that contributes heavily toward the understanding of Meursault's character. However in the end, the metaphorical and physical death of Meursault reflects society's inability to be accepting towards different kinds of people. Not only Meursault, but essentially the stranger has been wiped out from society. Society can now live peacefully with the fact that there is no longer an anomaly dwelling amongst them. This tragic death of Meursault represents society's victory.
