College Success for International Students. 
College Success for International Students 
Plutarch the Greek biographer once said, "The mind is not a vessel to be filled, but a fire to be kindled". There is no better phrase to describe current state of educational system in developed countries. Foreigners in developing countries look at foreign education as a system, which is powered by high research and tremendous amount of opportunities for students to explore in their field of study. Looking at wide array of opportunities available, international students flock to countries like America, United Kingdom etc. to secure higher education. On their dream of pursuing better education, they reside in these countries, far away from their families, on temporary resident visa. Initially many of them face much difficulty in acclimatizing to environment, language and culture. These problems can therefore act as hindrance in their University success with respect to domestic students. 
	Domestic and International students face transition issues in their first semester of study, but with distinct differences. Ramsay et al. (1999) found that "first year international students at Australian Universities had problems understanding lectures in terms of terminology and pace while domestic students found difficulties in terms of course material dissatisfaction and instructors policies." P(8). Such problems led to feeling of embarrassment, frustration and disappointment within international students. According to an article published by USnews international students are unaware of policies that institute has towards plagiarism and it can be very difficult for international graduate students to conduct research and citing sources p (1). Also Graham Park, my interviewee stated that understanding course material is relatively difficult for international students as compared to domestic students as every country has its own distinct teaching methodology and it can be challenging to adapt a totally new teaching and grading style p (4). 
Yanyin Zhang and Yinan Mi conducted research on 40 international students on their communication skills in terms of speaking, listening, reading and writing abilities. Following graphs shows the outcome of study. 
P (4) 
Study one was based on speaking and listening abilities. It was found that more than 60% of students faced a lot of difficulties in speaking and understanding foreign language. Speaking and listening abilities are important aspect for socializing like participating in on campus activities. Having problems in communication can prevent students from making friends and may lead to many misunderstandings. 
P (4) 
Second study was done on writing abilities of international students. Results showed that almost every student faced difficulty in expressing by means of writing. Writing abilities are important factor in academic success, as every course demands some kind of writing input. Facing problems in writing can really hurt the grades of students. 
P (5) 
Last study was based on reading abilities of International students and the results showed that international students faced no difficulties in reading except few. 
The whole study reflects that international students face problems in understanding academic materials in their non-native language. 
Hechanova-Alampay et al. (2002) found that international students experienced less social support than domestic students, most likely because their family and friends were far away p (6). Also the more interaction international students had with Americans, the greater their adjustment was. Graham Park (interviewee) also suggested that International students feel homesickness more than domestic students as changes in lifestyle and also time differences prevent them from contacting their friends and family P (3). Moreover due to language barrier they even fail to make new friends and their first month at university is really challenging as they move out of their comfort zone, trying to socialize. Though only a small percentage of international students had close domestic friends. 
Rajapaksa and Dundes (2002) discovered that international students felt more lonely and homesick than domestic students p (9). Their adjustment, measured by feelings of loneliness and homesickness, was affected by their satisfaction with social networks as opposed to the number of close friends. American students' adjustment was unrelated to these factors. They reported having more close friends than international students, while the latter were more apt to have friendships with international students than with Americans. According to Mathew, a professor at University of Missouri said that International students face difficulties in approaching domestic students and this is main reason for them to have a very low and limited social life p (6). Majority of International students preferred interacting with students which belonged to their homeland and also their medium of interaction was in their own language which prevented them from improving English speaking skills and devoid them from having domestic friends. Social support is vital to international student adjustment, and friendships with domestic students are helpful, but are highly uncommon. 
Another common issue that international students face are health issues. Common illness in host country may not be common in student's home country and he might not have immunization done. Lack of immunization makes them more prone to disease and when affected by any of these diseases can make their university experience problematic. Moreover Language barrier may prevent student from describing his condition and symptoms to doctor accurately. Homesickness can add to feeling of helplessness and can worsen the health due to added stress due to loneliness and lack of social support according to psychologists. 
International students lack familiarity about local culture, lifestyle and customs. Hence many of them aren't used to food varieties in foreign country, which can be a big problem as they are not aware of nutrition value of various different food. Katherine Samuel found that international students are more likely to become obese with respect to domestic students p (4). So it can be difficult for students from maintaining balanced diet relative to domestic students. Moreover it can be difficult to find food according to your dietary restrictions if you are unaware of food choices that are available within your dietary limitation. For example it can very difficult to find vegetarian food if host country of study is primarily non-vegetarian and vice versa. 
Finally adjustment is big part of life and adjusting to totally new society and country is lot more difficult than adjusting to a new place in your own country. Challenges that International students face are far difficult than that of domestic students as domestic students are aware of grading scale, food ranges, common diseases in their country while international students are not. Moreover domestic student can visit their friends and family during short breaks while it's generally not the case with international students. This can add to loneliness and homesickness which can further devoid students from having a better social life and instead can cause stress and health related concerns. Lastly poor communication skills and writing abilities can prevent international students from having a better social life and can also affect academic aspect of university experience. Hence universities must take precautions so that they can make initial stay of international students as easy as possible so that they can have a better success in their college life. 
