Argumentative Essay draft #1 
Date: 11/02/2015 
Will Robots Take over the World? 
Humans have many reasons to believe that their existence on planet earth is threatened. From diseases to natural disasters, and as far as fearing an alien invasion, we have thought of it all. Now, we have another reason which, according to some people, will pose the biggest existential threat to humanity and that is 'super intelligent artificial intelligence' or to be more specific, robots. The question 'Can robots take over the world?' is a very intriguing question which has no definite answer. There are many experts who believe that it is an eventual possibility, when robots become more powerful and intelligent than their creators. However, I have reason to believe that this possibility is far from occurring considering our current position in the development of robotics. 
	We are at the stage in the development of robotics where we know what we want to achieve but do not yet know how we are going to achieve what we have set out to do. We are hoping to achieve in making robots super intelligent (World Economic Forum, 2015). When we talk about super intelligent we are in fact referring to artificial intelligence which is the brains behind robotics. It refers to intelligence similar to humans which allows the robots to perform tasks like humans at a much faster pace. Robots will have a mind of their own, with which they can be creative, strategic and be able to make decisions autonomously. Unlike a human they will never become tired of assimilating and working with information. And that's where it is believed that the robots have an advantage over their human counter-parts. The vision of creating such machines is all very well, but the fundamental issue is to develop the intelligence of a machine to match that of a human. The primary obstacle in this endeavor is that we ourselves do not know what human intelligence is. It contains a vast number of aspects some of which we are unable to quantize. According to Professor <name>, an expert in the field of robotics at Purdue University, not having a complete understanding of human intelligence makes it difficult to characterize it (personal communication, October 8, 2015). 
	It is not just intelligence that gives robots the ability to behave like a human. Our decision making and innovative thinking is also influenced by things like our consciousness, values, emotions experiences and adapting to changing situations. These aspects are subjective in nature but influence our ability to reason properly. According to David Gelernter, one can't reason properly if one can't access their emotional values (Anonymous, 1998). To incorporate these attributes into a robot is complex and we are nowhere close to finding out how we can achieve this. Without these attributes robots are just machines that can be overridden by humans when they get out of hand. For a robot to be successful in overcoming its human counter-part it has to be able to match up to its human counter-part first. From the above, it can be said that it is unlikely that robots will be human-like in the near future and thus the fear of robots taking over is an obscene situation. 
	Though robots will not be able to take over in the near future, some experts do say that they will eventually do so. This is not definite and we are at the stage where we can prevent it from happening. The issue depends a lot on how humans respond towards robots. Professor <name> explains that if we take robots for granted there is a possibility that robots can take over the human race (personal communication, October 8, 2015). A.I experts believe that in adopting 'responsible innovation' in the field, we are looking into a more careful future with A.I (Rees, 2015). Humans play a big role in determining the outcome of this plausible situation of A.I takeover. If we are careful enough with how we go about developing this technology we will not have any reason to fear it. However, this being said there a minority out there who believe that it is inevitable that robots will take over. 
	My opponents might argue that the possibility of robots taking over the world may not happen in the near future, but it is evitable in the next hundred years. According to the known scientist Stephen Hawking, robots or artificial intelligence will take off on its own at some point and re-design itself. Robots will evolve to be more powerful and stronger with the ability to never become tired and humans, limited by their slow biological evolution will not be able to compete (Gaudin, 2014). Stephen Thaler, the creator of the Creativity Machine, says that future computers will become so good at innovation that humans won't have anything better to do and our human weakness will be our downfall (Anonymous, 1998). 
	It all comes down to us and how we decide to deal with the situation. We are already one step ahead because we have identified that there is a possibility of robots taking over. Hence the necessary steps can be taken to prevent a situation of hostile takeover. A.I is a long way from making a robot that can easily learn and make intelligent decisions in order to cast aside it human operators and take over. It can be concluded that robots taking over the world is not necessarily the greatest thing that we have fear. It is after all in our hands and we still have the power to control it. 
