Preventing Running Away by Education 
Running away from home among teens is a serious social phenomenon. There are million teenagers running away in a year (Michael, 1-2). Running away behavior will have huge impacts on both personal and social scale although it can help teens be more independent. Therefore, it is important to prevent. There are many factors cause teens run away from home and should be prevent fundamentally. Compared with changing family environment by government, education is a better way to prevent adolescents running away behavior. 
Mental health education is significant for the growth of children. In fact, Xiao Li, Cui found that over half of parents believe that schools should be responsible to educate mental health to their students instead of parents. However, most time teens spend in schools is to learn academic knowledge. Poor ability to withstand setbacks causes many teenagers run away due to their immature mentalities. Hence, parents and teachers play a significant role to lead adolescents to a right way during their growth. It means that if schools do not teach their students how to solve mental health problems appropriately, teenagers may find other extreme ways to escape from the situation, like running away. On the other hand, if parents and teachers can teach teenagers how to solve their emotional problems, the percentage of running away from home will decrease. 
Additionally, teenagers will learn the potential risks of running away if parents and teachers can educate them and give real example from the newspapers to let teens be aware of the results and challenges they will face after running away. For example, after running away from home, teens do not have enough ability to support their life. Therefore, they will adopt certain practices in order to survive in difficult economic circumstance like committing crimes. In fact, according to Jennifer Benoit-Bryan, adults who runaway in adolescence are over two and a half times more likely to be arrested than those who never ran away from home (4). Furthermore, after running away, teens may be abducted by strangers, or be trafficked because lack of ability to protect themselves. It will be a problem for police to find those children. Therefore, educating children can fundamentally prevent teens running away behavior. 
Moreover, teens run away from home because of their negative family environment. Therefore, government can change family environment by giving financial aid and communicating to parents to put effort on giving children a good growth environment instead of fighting and rebuking. However, unlike educating teenagers in home and schools, it will cost government a lot of money because it is a continuous process, which means that family environment will change back if governments stop monitoring and cutting financial aid from families. Besides, after stopping giving financial aid, teenagers may feel uncomfortable and have much worse emotional needs because of the big difference of family environment. Compared to changing family environment, education continuously give teens right direction. 
Besides of running away from negative family environment and escaping from problems, there are still other reasons for teems run away. For example, peer pressure is another factor that causes teens running away. According to Love, in order to prevent teens running away behavior, teenagers' emotional needs and environment around them should be satisfied to change their mind (1-8). Therefore, both parents and society should put huge effort to solve those potential factors respectively. However, if family and school can be responsible to educate teens, it can increase children's awareness of not running away and then prevent running away behavior primarily. 
In conclusion, although running away helps children be more independent, it has more disadvantages for teens. Running away behavior will not only cause teenagers' personal mental and physical health problems from discrimination and physical abuse after leaving home, but will also cause a lot of social problems because much money from families and efforts from police departments will be put to find those running away teenagers. Therefore, it is crucial to prevent running away behavior. In order to prevent running away behavior, teaching potential risks from education should play a more significant role in prevention than changing family environment by giving financial aid because education can give teens right direction to change their negative thinking. 
