ENG 10600-I 
Apr 16th, 2016 
Putting an End to Cigarette Offering 
	There are "over 300 million smokers" in China, a million of which "die from smoking-related illnesses every year BBC. The large population of smokers in China is partly due to the unique Chinese tradition - cigarette offering in business and casual settings. After decades of popular smoking habits, the Chinese government has finally begun to enforce regulations on cigarettes, so that the harmful habit of smoking can be reduced, along with the deaths of Chinese smokers Hu et al 37. However, the government regulations on cigarettes have not been effective on either reducing the smoking habits or the custom of cigarette offering, with a continuously growing population of smokers and reluctance among the smokers to obey the regulations Xinhua. The reason why cigarette smoking and offering are so hard to abolish in China is because they are long lasting traditions and that they bring high revenues to the government; an effective solution must emphasize on the people's health over revenues, and get rid of this tradition through public education and setting up role models. 
	From the late 20th century, cigarettes have been extremely popular commodities in China, with 1. 7 million cigarettes produced annually that constitute 7.4% of the government's revenue Hu et al 37. Thus, the Chinese government is extremely behind than other nations in taking cigarette regulations. However, starting May 1st, 2011, laws have been in place to regulate cigarette selling and smoking Xinhua. High taxes are placed on cigarettes to discourage the purchase of them, and only licensed stores can sell cigarettes; the once common cigarette vending machines are also abolished Xinhua. On cigarette packages, it is mandatory to print the warning of cigarettes' harmful effects on health, and no cigarette advertisements are allowed on any media Xinhua. Further, smokers are banned from smoking in public spaces such as malls and some buildings. More no-smoking signs can be seen all over major cities Xinhua. From 2015, stricter public smoking ban is also enforced in Beijing, where smoking near to a no-smoking sign can result in high fines BBC. However, despite of the efforts in regulations, smoking behaviors in China are still not declining. A key reason to this is the cigarette offering tradition in China. Even after the smoking bans, still "a common greeting among men is to offer a cigarette", and "a carton of cigarettes also remains a popular gift" BBC. Thus, as long as the tradition cigarette offering exists and the people's ideas about cigarettes are still rather positive, smoking cannot be truly reduced in China. 
	Growing up in China, I was deeply impressed by people's insistence on the cigarette offering habits and their ignorance or carelessness on smoking's harms. Seeing the statistics of cigarette-related deaths in China and the experience of the people I know suffering from cigarette-related illness, I have come to the conclusion that smoking behaviors must be reduced in China, and that it can only be achieved through the abolishment of the cigarette offering tradition. Such abolishment can be carried out in three ways, the more intense education of cigarettes' harms, the establishment of role models among celebrities and government officials, and the substitution of this tradition with new customs. 
	Firstly, people must actually become aware of cigarettes' harms to be willing to give up cigarette offering. The education of cigarettes' harms should not only be a part of school's classes, but also the public education for adults. There can be anti-smoking campaigns on media, and more visual presentations of the health consequences of smoking on cigarette packages. Second, there are negative role models among celebrities and government officials, who often have smoking habits and make people think that smoking is a common behavior for successful people. In order to set up good role models, celebrities and government officials should be advised to avoid smoking in public, so that people wouldn't imitate their behaviors and smoke as well. Lastly, the tradition of offering cigarettes should be replaced by new customs, so that this key encouragement and justification for smoking can be eliminated. For example, if the media begin to portray the action of offering tea or health products as a new trend of gifting, the behavior of offering cigarettes as gifts can be substituted with offering these healthy products. 
	In conclusion, with the failure of Chinese government's regulations of smoking, it is essential to adopt more effective solutions that abolish cigarette offering behaviors. In order to make effective changes, public educations of smoking's harms, positive role models, and substation of the cigarette offering tradition are required, so that millions of Chinese people can be saved from smoking-related deaths. 
