The necessity of reading textbooks in science studying in college 
In the very beginning of each semester, there is always a hot issue about purchasing textbooks. There are two main reasons to cause this happen. First is the expensive price of schoolbooks. The other more significant reason, however, is that some students think textbook is unhelpful. They even would not read a single page after they buy the book. Would the textbooks be useful? What is the truth of that? I believe it is pretty helpful as long as we read it patiently. 
Textbook is a kind of instructional book which includes every details we need, driving students to the right studying direction. The opinion from my math TA, Jessica, and physics professor, Mark, is that the textbook of science course is very useful. Mr. Mark has been working in our school and teaching students more than 20 years. That makes his words convictive. Because of the limited time, I interview him through e-mail. In the e-mail he said that the textbook includes every essential thing and explains them in very detailed way by using illustrations, which provides students a easier access to understand every point. Beyond Mark's opinion, Jessica came up with an other idea. She said science textbooks always highlight the important formulas to remind students every time when they open the book. If students can read it in an efficient way, it will be really powerful to prepare exams. These opinion was summarized from interviews done before, and show the benefit of reading textbook of science subjects in the short term study. 
Normally, there are 2 kinds of purpose to read textbook---- preview and review. Between these 2 learning style, reading to review is more frequent for most of students. The far-reaching advantage of reading after class is that it will influence students' future study. Textbooks even covers some parts that professor did not mention during the class time. Those parts of problem are probably deeper than what students learn at that moment, but they might show up again in their future study and turn to be compulsory learning modules. The ideas from online resources support the statements above further. The opinions come from Alan M. Frager and Maurren Vanterpool, who did research and write "Point-Counterpoint: Value of School Textbooks", state "textbooks are comprehensive. Students can master the information in the books easily, without extensive learning. Some parts of books are even helpful to students' further study. Beyond those above, textbooks are not only sources of learning subject, but tools for training students' better ways of thinking, which are really beneficial for students to surmount difficulties in their future study." Despite the fact that these voice support and reinforce the idea that reading science textbooks is a good studying style, there opinion from the contrary is not negligible. 
Many of my friends think textbooks are needless. "After I buy it, the only thing I need is the online assessment code inside." This was what my friend told me. Most of students do not like reading textbooks of science courses due to a same reason. They think there are too much things included in the books. The book is so detailed that they cannot find the important parts. It is true that science books always have plenty of words to describe. The whole page of words gives students a bad first impression when they open the book. Students are not interested in reading it. The interest is the most important factor that makes people want to read something. That is why good articles always have a title and introduction to hook their readers' interest. The too many words sometime mess up students' thoughts. Some students said that they even cannot remember what the paragraph talk about in the beginning when they read to the end of the page. This is not slander textbooks. I also have the same kind of feel sometimes. The science books always describe some abstract topics by using many terminologies, which makes the book harder to read and understand. Students usually are not that patient to read and think through and through. Comparing with textbooks, lecture slides are much easier to find significance. The lecture slides are usually a summary of content of courses. However, if students have enough patience, reading and understanding will be not that hard. The patience is a key point. 
Although textbooks is so detailed that hinder students' interest to read, it makes students more clear about the every conclusion part, which is the important parts mentioned above that exams teat about. Students will find that the details that they used to think being trivial and disturb their reading help them to understand conclusion parts further, if they can finish reading with patience. As long as they understand the principles behind, there is no more memorization of formulas, and they can use the formulas more flexible. Some harder question would be solved because they know the principles rather than purely follow formulas. Therefore in conclusion, reading textbook is a powerful access to study science subjects, as long as we have patience and follow the right method. It is necessary for students to read their science textbooks after classes. 
Reference: 
http://scholarworks.wmich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1516&context=reading_horizons 
