04/16/2016 
Are We Ready? 
	When I was on vacation in California, I had a list of things I wanted to see. None of those items were a self-driving car. One night, I was on my way home when I was stopped at an intersection in Mountain View and that's when I saw one of the most inspiring things in my life. I saw a small white car drive by in front of me. What was so unique about it is, there was no steering wheel controlling the car. It was driving itself and inside were two Google employees doing absolutely nothing but enjoying the ride. 
There was only thing going on in my mind at that point of time: 'I want one.' Not only me, but I'm sure hundreds of thousands of people are waiting to get their hands on one. The real question is, are we ready? I believe we are ready as we ever will be and that this is the right time to release such a technology to the public for consumer use. 
A Self-Driving car is a vehicle that heavily relies on sensors to navigate itself through its environment without any human input. One of the many purposes of having a self-driving car is to make individuals dependent on a driver become independent. Google has been developing the self-driving car since 2009 and since then there have been great improvements in the technology. In October 2015, Tesla Motors released their innovative solution: Autopilot. Even though these technologies are being developed at a rapid rate, there are no set laws to govern these self-driving cars. 
	Google has been developing the self-driving car with the aim to reduce the number of accidents on the road. Since the beginning, the self-driving car has been in only 14 accidents according to Google's CEO. All of these accidents were caused due to human error which is the main cause for accidents. Without human input, we can see a drastic change in the number of accidents on the road making it a safer place. 
	As the safety standards have increased, Google has pushed these vehicles out onto public roads. They began testing these cars on highways and public streets to see how well they respond to their environment. Again, there have been very few incidents where the self-driving car has been in trouble and almost none where it was at fault. This goes to show that we have already started adapting the self-driving car onto our roads safely. 
	Google isn't the only company working on the self-driving car. Tesla Motors is a premium automotive company who is also working on this technology. In October 2015, they released a new feature for their cars: Autopilot. Although Autopilot isn't as well developed as Google's self-driving car, it still has features which are already saving lives on the road. Autopilot uses sensors to maintain its lane, control its speed and auto-park. It can also detect oncoming vehicles and avoid collisions by swerving out of the way. Multiple online reports are claiming that the vehicle is saving lives by avoiding collisions on the streets. 
Videos on social media show the car automatically adjusting its course to avoid collision with another car on the highway. This goes to show that the technology is already being used by people and has already started having an impact in the way we drive. 
	In world of advancing technology, no one should be left behind. With the new self-driving car being prepared for release, no one will have to depend on another person for transportation. Those who are physically challenged, elderly, and children can now safely get from one place to another without having to depend on someone who can drive. This opens new doors of opportunities for the community. 
	For many, the commute to work and back is a long tiring process which involves hours being spent in long lines of traffic. Instead of paying attention to the road, self-driving cars will give you the opportunity to utilize that time do something more productive. It can also help reduce the stress levels of many who get paranoid when they get stuck in traffic. 
	The big question everyone asks when an accident occurs is, 'whose fault is it?' The only way we know how to settle this case is by turning to the law. However, there are no laws written regarding self-driving cars. In an accident, who's to blame? The human inside the vehicle or the vehicle itself? As of today, the only law regarding self-driving vehicles is that it can only be used for development and testing and not for consumer use. We may not have laws ready at this moment to adapt self-driving cars immediately but soon we will have something to help maintain decorum. New laws are being written every day and Google is already behind many Governments to allow self-driving cars in their states. 
	We are already seeing the impact automation can bring to the automotive industry. Soon we will be able to save hundreds of lives not to mention their money involved when self-driving cars are released on the roads. We will never be ready until we push our boundaries and start bringing them out onto the roads. Google has already been successfully testing these cars in Mountain View, California with very few incidents. In the time to come, the technology is meant to get better, reducing the number of total accidents on road. Tesla's Autopilot is already on the roads with people claiming to have avoided accidents thanks to this new technology. In a world full of advanced technology, it only seems fair that everyone has the same amount of freedom and independence when it comes to transportation. Self-driving cars will allow many more people who were dependent on a driver to become independent. Self-Driving cars are going to help save time and allow us to become more productive during our commute to work and back. In my opinion we are ready to bring this new technology onto the roads. We are as ready as we ever will be. 
