Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
Date: 11/16/2015 
Against the Robot Invasion 
	Humans have many reasons to believe that their existence on earth is threatened. From diseases to natural disasters, to as far as fearing an alien invasion, we have considered it all. Now, according to some people, we have another cause to fear which will pose the biggest existential threat to humanity, and that is 'super intelligent artificial intelligence' or more specifically robots (World Economic Forum, 2015). The question whether robots can take over the world is a very intriguing one which has no definite answer, but in my opinion, it is highly unlikely. Many experts believe that it is an eventual possibility, when robots become more powerful and intelligent than their creators (Gaudin, 2014). However, I have reason to believe that this will not be the case because of how complex it is to create a super intelligent system and the role that humans can play in preventing such a situation from ever occurring. 
	Humans envision creating super intelligent systems whose intelligence matches that of a human. When we talk about super intelligence we are in fact referring to artificial intelligence (A.I) which is the brains behind robotics. Rendering such kind of intelligence has proven to be very complex due to fact that we ourselves do not know what human intelligence is. According to Professor <name>, an expert in the field of robotics at <place>, having an incomplete understanding of human intelligence makes it difficult to characterize it (personal communication, October 8, 2015). It consists of a vast number of aspects some of which we are unable to quantize. Due to this fundamental issue we are far from creating robots which have a mind of their own, with which they can be creative, strategic, make autonomous decisions and possess other tools that will make them strong enough to take over their creators. 
	In my opinion, for a robot to be successful in overcoming its human counterpart, it has to match up to its human counter-part first. My opinion is based on information previously researched and primary resources, such as an interview with an expert. I have gathered that the possibility of a robot being similar to a human is highly improbable. This is because human decision making and innovative thinking requires much more than just intelligence. It is influenced by things like consciousness, values, emotions, experiences and adapting to changing situations. Incorporating these attributes into a robot is complex because they are difficult to quantize due to their subjective nature. It is a huge challenge and we are nowhere close to finding out how we can achieve this. Without these attributes, robots are just machines that can be overridden by humans when they get out of hand. From the above, it can be concluded that it is unlikely that robots will be human-like in the near future and thus the fear of robots taking over is an obscene situation. 
	My opponents might argue that the possibility of robots taking over the world may not happen in the near future, but is inevitable in the next hundred years. According to the known scientist Stephen Hawking, robots or artificial intelligence will take off on its own at some point and re-design itself, to be more powerful and stronger with the ability to never become tired. On the other hand, humans will be limited by their slow biological evolution and will be unable to compete (Gaudin, 2014). Stephen Thaler, the creator of the Creativity Machine, said that future computers will become so good at innovation that humans won't have anything better to do and our human weakness will be our downfall (Anonymous, 1998). To counter this argument, the possibility of robots taking over in the next hundred years depends a lot on how humans will respond to robots. Professor <name> explains that if we take robots for granted, there is a possibility that robots can take over the human race (personal communication, 2015). A.I experts believe that in adopting 'responsible innovation' in the field, we are looking into a safer future with A.I (Rees, 2015). Therefore, humans play a big role in determining the outcome of this plausible situation of A.I takeover. If we are careful with how we go about treating and developing this technology we will not have any reason to fear it. If it does happen that we are able to develop a robot that is capable of human behavior, then it is our responsibility to ensure that the goals of the robots are similar to that of humans. Subsequently, this will ensure that robots will not be able to take over even in a hundred years. 
	It all comes down to us and how we decide to deal with the situation. We are already one step ahead because we have identified that there is a possibility of robots taking over. Hence the necessary steps can be taken to prevent a situation of hostile takeover. A.I is a long way from making a robot that can easily learn and make intelligent decisions in order to cast aside its human operators. It can be concluded that robots taking over the world is not necessarily the greatest thing that we have to fear. It is after all in our hands and we still have the power to control it. 
