Argumentative paper-Draft 1 
November 24, 
Topic sentence: the negative side of video games is greater than the benefit sides. 
Over half the century, video game had been becoming prevalent among all the ages and races. This phenomenon brought thousand-billion dollar to video games industry. There is a special type of video game, MMORPG, which is usually contents violence and pornographic. However, this type of entertainment will bring several risk factors to our next generation. The virtual world of violent video game always include blood, killed and crimes that a normal adolescent never act at society. Nowadays, violent video games play a significant characteristic among game markets. Based on the top 10 best sealer games in 2015. The half of games are more or less contains violence. Hence, in this paper, I would like to discuss about the positive and negative side of violent video game. 
Opposition paragraph: 
As many people might think that there are some positive effects might influent among adolescents while they are playing video game. The perspective of majority people think is that playing video game could be a good way to reduce the stress and depression while playing. Also, many parents allow their young children playing video game as a reward after daily study. Some people think that playing video games could improve children's eye-brain coordination. They believed that in terms of using what you see in your eyes and coordinating muscles, then operate accordingly would improve eye-brain coordination while children's are playing video game. Others, however, think that due to video games are directly controlled by the player, thus, adolescents could playing video games for filling the psychological needs, such as satisfaction, feeling of control and fulfillment of self-worth. 
Support 1 
Although video games could lead player relaxing while playing, it could also causing addiction. Especially for the adolescents who are not mature enough to control their behavior in most cases. Moreover, Chan and Rabinowitz were published a research. This research was measured based on 72 ninth and tenth grade adolescents in high school and 72 parents. Adolescents were asked questions about exercise, grades, work, and school detentions. Parents were asked to complete the Conners' Parent Rating Scale (CPRS) and answer questions about their children's medical conditions. The results proved that adolescents who playing more than one hour video games per day is more likely to act poor scholastic performance, and the GPA also shows lower than other who are not playing any internet video games. The consequences of more time play on video games could also lead to adolescents at increased risk for problems in school. Also, Chan and Rabinowitz mentioned that adolescents who play video games frequently might increase tendency intense symptoms of ADHD or inattention. Overall, there are many ways for adolescents to refresh from daily heavy school's work. So parents should prevent children access to violent video games in order to reduce the risk factor happens among them. 
Support2 
Causing addiction 
-defination of addiction 
-When children's are addicticted in video games. The tendency to act aggressively might increase. Find a study to support. 
-Back to opposition question, there are some better ways to improve eye-brain coordination. Such as texting, taking notes by typing. 
Support 3 
Increase the tendency become antisocial 
-Children should learn filling the psychological needs in daily life rather than in a virtual world. 
Paragraph 4 
Although video games have negative impact among adolescents, we cannot deny that it can benefit the whole society. Such as video games could training houseman with laparoscopy by playing video game. Also, some specific healthy video games could teaching children's study. 
Conclusion 
.. 
