November 27, 2015 
Blades postponed the process of modernization of China 
When it comes to Blades, many people are unfamiliar with this topic. But many people may know Ming Dynasty in ancient China, which is a specific time period leading ancient China from a powerful country to a behindhand country later. And Blades is an important factor during this progress. In this research paper, the writer will first give a brief introduction about Blades, then talk about in detail about what Blades did in Ming Dynasty. In the end, the writer will draw a conclusion about the history impact that Blades left on China. 
First, we need to know how Blades come into history. According to Gao, Xi, a Chinese history scholar, "Blades was first set up by Emperor Zhu Yuanzhang when he was king of Wu." (Gao Xi 2). At that time, China was divided into different kingdoms and Blades satisfied the military use for Zhu. After Zhu Yuanzhang unities the whole state and became the first emperor of Ming Dynasty, the country became relatively stable and the military use of Blades seemed out of date. So he changed the Blades system and Blades was not a military organization anymore. However, the function of Blades was still unclear until the event of Hu Weiyong coming up. In 1380, Zhu Yuanzhang thought that Hu, who was the last minister in ancient China history, had an incentive to rebel. To help collect the evidence that Hu was not loyal anymore, Zhu required Blades to detect Hu without his consciousness. In the end, with Blades' huge contribution, Hu Weiyong was killed by emperor Zhu, and Blades formally became a spy agency. "In fact, Blades started coming into history after Hu Weiyong's event." (<name>. Personal Interview, 1, November, 2015). 
So it is obvious that Blades was a military organization at first due to meet the war requirement before Ming Dynasty set up and later turned into a spy agency. But how it comes that a military organization turned to a spy agency? If you look back to ancient China history, you will find a trend that the emperor's power was always enhancing. Although, emperors had a lot of power, they were still restricted by some factors. For example, they needed to follow good suggestions through central government officials. And their power were supervised by the imperial minister. However, when it came to Ming Dynasty, the emperor was not satisfied with the existing power he had, and Zhu Yuanzhang wanted to ban the Minister System so that no one could contend against him. But it was not a simple matter. So he utilized Blades, which was directly responsible for the emperor, to detect imperial minister and other officials who had a potential to threat Zhu's power. And as Hu Weiyong's event came out, Zhu got the chance to ban the minister system which had lasted more than 1300 years through ancient China's history. "Zhu totally killed more than 200 thousands government officials with contributions of Blades. (Xiao Lijun 4)" 
As the minister system being banded, there was no one who can compete with the emperor, and the balance between the emperor and the minister destroyed. This badly led to the emperor doing anything he wanted without any supervision. Therefor the emperor enhanced his despotism, which severely damaged the process of democracy. 
After Hu's event, Blades totally became a tool for the emperor to eradicate those who may potentially threatened Zhu's power. Since Blades was directly responsible for the emperor, it had the power sometimes over the law. In other words, Blades had the power to kill those government officials when necessary and then told the emperor. According to <name>, this left really bad influence on the process of ancient China. Now, the emperor had unlimited power, as most of previous dynasties, when no one can threat emperor's power, the dynasty usually went to die soon. However, things are different in Ming Dynasty because emperor enhanced their power at the beginning of the Dynasty but is still lasted for nearly 300 years. "Because Zhu destroyed the old system at the beginning of the empire, there were fewer obstacles that government officials would rebel since most of the potential officials had been killed." (<name>. Personal Interview, 1, November, 2015) 
But things were not perfect, the expense is that the expansion of Blades restricted the potential democratic reform as a consequence. At that time, the middle class in China was becoming stronger with the development of economics. And at the same time, some western countries were conducting their democratic reform and became democratic countries. Compared to China, China missed the chance to convert from a feudalism state to a capitalism state. Instead, China just enhanced its initial feudalism system. According to Professor Deng Zijie, "it is not a coincidence that if there was no Blades, China would go to the democratic way." (Deng Zijie 5) Because after Blades, there was also Dong Chang, which is another spy agency conducted by eunuchs. And Dong Chang as well as Blades conducted thousands of terrorist incidents together, leading to more and more officials be loyal to the emperor. As a result, no one had the power or even incentive to rebel till the midterm of Ming Dynasty. 
As Blades becoming a relatively powerful spy agency, they get trust from the emperor, which let the spy agency became even more arrogant and domineering. Although the head of Blades' post was not very high, those who had a higher position were afraid of Blades. Therefore, to prevent from being detected, corruption arose. It is estimated that, until the midterm of Ming Dynasty, more than three forth of the central government officials offered bribe to Blades to avoid being detected. And those huge money used in corruption enhanced the poverty and instability of local areas in China, leading to the unexpected peasant uprising in 1644. As the last emperor committed suicide when the head of the peasants rushed into the palace, Ming Dynasty came to an end. 
So, what is the Blades' historical impact on ancient China? First, Blades had a huge positive influence before Ming Dynasty was set up. This organization played an important role for the safety of the king and for the military use at its initial stage. Second, as a tool to enhance the emperor's power, Blades did not have the power to make final decisions. They just followed instructions from the emperor. Last, when Zhu Yuanzhang died, Blades totally became a tool for other emperors to make terrorist events and this eliminated the modernization for China to conduct democratic revolution which makes the different political system between China and western countries. In one sentence, the bad influence is larger compared to its positive impact. 
In conclusion, Blades is a special spy agency in Ming Dynasty. This agency has dramatic power when it first came into historical stage. Their initial function is to stand guard for emperor conducted by military and their function changed a lot during Hu Weiyong's event and finally became a spy agency. But at the end of Ming Dynasty, Blades is less important compared to its initial stage and sometimes Blades should depend on other spy agency like Dong Chang. Although we cannot deny the historical contribution of Blades in some areas. Most scholars believes that their disadvantages are greater compared to their benefits and seriously damaged China's modernization. 
Reference: 
Gao, Xi. "Blades of Ming Dynasty". Archive and Society 3rd edition. Wang, Zhao. Guangdong. 2010. 1-3. Print 
Xiao, Lijun. "The change of function of Blades". Tianjin Normal Journal 6th edition. Liu, Zizhen. Tianjin. 2000. 1-5. Print 
Deng, Zijie. "An Analysis of Chang Wei System". Tianshui Daily Journal 6th edition. Wang, Shaohong. Tianshui. 2008. 1-7. Print 
