Argumentative Paper, Draft 3 
04/19/2016 
Morality of stem cell extraction 
Stem cell research is the continuous discovery of the benefits of stem cells and it has contributed majorly to the ongoing global battle against a number of diseases. Stem cells are distinguished from other cell types in living organisms because of their unique regenerative and adaptive nature (National Institutes of Health, n.d.). Due to these characteristics, they can be used to cure and repair ailments of the body. There are different types of stem cells, for example embryotic stem cells and adult stem cells. Embryotic stem cells are found in the zygote which is a cell forms when an egg is fertilized by a sperm (International Society for Stem cell Research, n.d.) while adult stem cells are found in different organs and regions of the body. Embryonic stem cell extraction has caused a lot of dispute in the medical stratosphere concerning the degradation of the sanctity of life. 
Although stem cell research has transformed medicine, it has also caused a lot of debate concerning basic moral principles. In November 1998, scientists John Thompson of the University of Wisconsin and John Gearhart of Johns Hopkins University discovered a way to extract stem cell lining from embryotic cells. This issue of extracting stem cells from embryos raises a lot of controversy worldwide with two different arguments. The antagonists argue that extraction of embryotic stem cells violates embryonic rights (Montague, 2015) and the sanctity of life since the embryo is murdered in the process. The protagonists justify the extraction process by arguing that at that time, the embryos can't be considered humans since they don't have a heartbeat and haven't yet experienced brain development. According to the U.S National Library of Medicine (2013), human embryos don't develop these traits until the 5th week of pregnancy. My argument is that stem cells should be extracted from other sources other than human embryos in order to preserve this sanctity. 
In order to dispense of the controversy, I believe stem cells should be extracted from other sources other than the embryotic cells. It goes against every moral code in society to destroy the life of another human; therefore, in order to preserve the sanctity of life, an embryo is entitled to certain basic human rights after conception takes place. There are a number of other different sources of stem cells, for instance, the human body is composed of multiple stem cells for example neuro stem cells, adipose stem cells and muscle stem cells. Recently, a Japanese scientist named Shinya Yamanaka was awarded the Nobel Prize in 2012 for Physiology or Medicine for discovering a way to extract stem cells from skin cells (Hadenfeld, 2015). The presence of these multiple sources of stem cells makes the need for embryotic stem cells obsolete since research can still be efficiently carried out on stem cells. 
Adult stem cells have been used to cure a number of diseases and a lot major breakthroughs in the field of stem cell research have been achieved using adult stem cells. An associate professor in the Department of Animal sciences and the center of cancer research at <place> University, <name> , has been looking into muscle regeneration to help war veterans and people with diseases like muscle dystrophy using muscle adult stem cells (personal communication, 2016). Also according to <name> , studies are under way to discover a way in which obesity can be reduced using adipose stem cells found in adult fat tissues. Considering the fact that obesity is related to certain conditions like heart disease, stroke and diabetes and that more than one-third (34.9% or 78.6million) of U.S adults are obese (Ogden, Carroll, Kit & Flegal, 2014), finding a cure to obesity would enormously impact the nation as a whole. Therefore this goes to show that adult stem cells are perfectly capable of curing diseases and can be substituted for embryotic stem cells. 
Some people are of the view that embryotic stem cell extraction presents no moral dilemma because the eggs are obtained in vitro fertilization which is the joining of a woman's egg and a man's sperm in a laboratory dish (La & Diaz, 2007). This point of view stems mainly from the various depictions of the age old question 'What is murder?' According to the Oxford dictionary (n.d.), it is the unlawful premeditated killing of one human being by another. Therefore if an embryo is a human being right after conception takes place, then the act of killing it to extract stem cells is considered murder, no matter what light it is put in. With this in mind, growing an embryo in a laboratory dish just to kill it doesn't make the extraction process less wrong. 
Other people also support the extraction by arguing that embryotic stem cells have a lot of potential to cure diseases since they are highly efficient (Tucker, 2006) and therefore they must be investigated and researched at all costs. Although embryotic stem cells are thought to be more efficient because they easily renew themselves and thus regenerate a thousand times faster than the adult stem cells, the risks involved with them are also high. According to <name> (2016), "because embryotic stem cells have so much potency to develop into any cell, they can also make cancer cells and are therefore risky." To explain this concept, he went on to elaborate that because scientists haven't yet figured out how to control the transition of embryotic stem cells to specialized cells like brain cells or fat cells the risks of the cells turning cancerous are very high. Whereas the adult stem cells that are already specialized don't pose much of a threat. 
Ultimately, I believe that embryonic stem cell extraction violates the rights of a human being which is something that undermines all the struggles that have been undertaken to preserve freedom among the human race. In the words of Steinbock (2006), "Humanity has a dignity and worth which separates humankind from the rest of creation"(p.26) and this dignity should encourage us to look into other sources of stem cells because if stem cells can be extracted from other places, the moral ramifications of embryotic cell extraction can be avoided entirely. 
