The necessity of reading textbooks in science studying in college 
In the very beginning of each semester, there is always a hot issue about purchasing textbooks. There are 2 main reasons to cause this happen. First is the expensive price of schoolbooks. The other more significant reason, however, is that some students think textbook is unhelpful. They even would not read a single page after they buy the book. Would the textbooks be useful? what is the truth of that? I believe it is pretty helpful as long as we read it patiently. 
Textbook is a kind of instructional book which included every details we need driving students to the right studying direction. The opinion from Jessica and Mark who are faculty stuff of science said the textbook of science course is very useful. It includes every essential things and explains them very detail by using illustrations. It even covers some parts that professor did not mention during the class time. It also high light the important formulas to remind students every times when they open the book.. If student can read it in an efficient way, it will be really powerful to prepare exams. These opinion was summarized from interviews done before. Moreover, the ideas from online resource support the statements above further. Textbooks are comprehensive. Students can master the information in the books easily, without extensive learning. Some parts of books are even helpful to students' further study. Beyond those above, textbooks are not only sources of learning subject, but tools for training students better ways to thinking, which are really beneficial for students to surmount difficulties in their future study. These opinions come from Alan M. Frager and Maurren Vanterpool, who did research and write "Point-Counterpoint: Value of School Textbooks". Despite the fact that these voice support and reinforce the idea that reading science textbooks is a good studying style, there opinion from the contrary is not negligible. 
Many of my friends thinks textbooks are needless. "After I buy it, the only thing I need is the online assessment code inside." This was what my friend told me. Most of students do not like read textbooks of science course due to a same reason. They think there are too much things included in the books. The book is so detailed that they can not find the important parts. It is true that science books always have plenty of words to describe. The whole page of words gives students a bad first impression when they open the book. Students are not interested in to read it. The interest is the most important factor that makes people want to read something. That is why good articles always have a title and introduction to hook reader's interest. The too much of words sometime mess up students' thought. Some students said that they even can not remember what the paragraph talk about in the beginning when they read to the end of the page. This is not slander textbooks. I also have the same kind of feel sometimes. The science book always describe some abstract topics by using many terminologies, which makes the book harder to read and understand. Students usually do not have so much patient to read and think. Comparing with textbooks, lecture slides are much easier to find significance. The lecture slides are usually a summary of content of courses. 
Although textbooks is so detail that hinder students' interest to read, it makes students more clear about the conclusion parts, which are the important parts mentioned above that exams teat about. Students will find that the details that they used to think trivial and disturb they reading help them to understand the conclusion parts further, if they can finish reading with patience. As long as they understand the principles behind, there is no more memorization of formulas, and they can use the formulas more flexible. Some harder question would be solved because they know the principles rather than purely follow formulas. Therefore in conclusion, reading textbook is necessary when we study. 
