English106 
Why did Korean mothers become like tiger mothers? 
	Since I was in elementary school, I saw most of my friends having hard time because of all the homework and classes that they have to deal with everyday after school. My mom always told me that I am very lucky to not have those kind of parent. She never told me to get an A or be the top three in class like my friends' mothers did. I never got better grades than my friends who always had their parents extreme attention. Still, I am really glad that she was not the type of parent who would force their children to stay up late to study. A lot of my friends were depressed all the time and wanted to be free from their parent's attention. Even though some might believe that Tiger moms raise better children because they tend to get better grades and go to better college, some of these students get really stressed and some even want to suicide because of all the pressure they get from their parents. Furthermore, some students meet failures because of their lack in self-reliance. 
	First, many Korean students who are raise under tiger mothers receives to much stress and are very depressed. One of my friend from my elementary school had to deal with hair loss. I remember that she always talked about how strict her mom is with a grimed-face. She told me that her doctor told her mom to stop giving her daughter too much pressure to get good grades since she is only ten. Also, she have to play outside instead of memorizing two hundred English vocabularies everyday before going to hakwons- private after school academies. Not only my friend's case, but also I have seen many cases on television and newspapers that Korean teenagers' suicide rate is one of the highest among the OECD countries. I can not say that this is one hundred percent because of the Korean tiger moms' parenting method, though, many times that students get too much pressure from their parents and the competitiveness of Korean society that they chose to end their life. Spending endless time on studying after school either at school or private academies, students doubt about why and for whom they are studying. Some even lose their interest in studying because they are forced to study more just to get higher grades to get admitted to top ranked universities. So, I believe Korean government should either change Korean education system or band private after school academies in order to lessen the negative impact of tiger mothers on Korean students. 
	Secondly, some students raised under tiger mothers lack in ability to solve their own problems when they grow up. For instance, my cousin who have graduated from <place>, a top ranked school for engineering, quit his job recently. Unlike me, he was raised under my aunt's extreme hard work to make a perfect child that she thought of. My aunt is a professor in <place> and she had very clear plan for her son to succeed. According to my mom, she punished my cousin when he gets low grades in school and send him to a lot of different hakwons to make him the first in the entire school. He finally graduated from high school as a validictorian and even made it to graduate from top university. However, without his mother, he failed to withstand the pressure that he got from his boss and superiors in his company. When he did something wrong at work, his superiors scolded him. Because he never experienced real world under his mom's extreme boundary, he could not stand the pressure that he got from his superiors. Thus he chose to quit his job in less than a half year. 
	As seen in two examples, Korean tiger mothers tend to raise their children with good grades with excellent college degree, students either lack happiness or self reliance. These two aspects are the most important thing in life however Korean students raised under tiger mother lack these. Thus Korean mothers should be more lenient to their children for their childrens' own sake. 
