Argumentative Essay Draft #1 
Dietetics in China: pursuing other countries 
	As a developing country, China has its own distinctive dietetic career and educational system from other countries in the world, but this system is poorly developed as well-known and requires more regulations and improvement. The demand to change the current situation is apparent. However, the direction of changing becomes a controversy, whether building improvement upon original system or standing in a line with other countries in the world. As a dietetic student and a Chinese, both identities make me think standing in a line with others is the best way for China. I came up with this conclusion from several perspectives, such as global impact, progress of scientific research, and human resource. They are discussed and explained in detail in the following. 
	One reason that China must reestablish a dietetic system like other developed countries is global impact. According to Sun and Dwyer (2013), more than 40 countries in the world joined an organization named the International Confederation of Dietetic Associations (ICDA), and their dietitians follow the international standards presented by ICDA. This is how dietetic system becomes globally standardized in most countries. One most important factor that causes current chaotic status is that China is not a member of ICDA, making China isolated in this field. Now, no one is supervising the operation of dietetic system in China. Therefore, flaws exist everywhere without regulations. However, The global impact is very influential. If China joins ICDA and builds a dietetic system based on international standards, the situation can be improved to a great extent by relying on global impact. Other members of ICDA would monitor and supervise China in order to ensure the ICDA standards are executed strictly as in other ICDA member countries, Thus, the current unregulated situation can be terminated with the supervision of ICDA. 
	Global impact is not the sole reason that the dietetic system in China needs to be parallel with other countries. The consideration of human resource of dietetic professionals is another crucial aspect. Because China doesn't have a formal dietetic education in college, more and more young people who are interested in dietetics, like me and Sun(2013), choose to study abroad in order to learn the most advanced dietetic knowledge and develop required practical skills in this field. Dietetic students normally pursue registered dietitian(RD) credentials after they graduate from college. However, this RD credential approved by the United States, which is widely recognized by the members of ICDA, is not recognized by China since their dietetic systems and standards are different. Therefore, Chinese dietetic students who receive a RD credential in the U.S. have to stay in foreign countries for job even though they eager to contribute to the improvement of human health in their home country, China. Gradually, China would not have dietetic professionals who have received the most advanced dietetic information to improve overall public health, so that the dietetic system in China can only become even worse and underdeveloped. However, this possibility can be eliminated by establishing a dietetic system on the basis of international standards. Therefore, dietetic professionals in other countries would have an opportunity to devote themselves to the progress of dietetics in China when the dietetic system in China is internationally standardized. 
	In addition to global impact and human resource, progress of scientific research in nutrition is another aspect that demands the internationally standardized dietetic system in China. From the interview with Sun who is a registered dietitian in Johns Hopkins Hospital, I know that nutrition is a fairly new science compared with other physical sciences and there are still a lot of unknown things to be discovered. Since dietetics is a study based on nutrition science, progress of scientific research is crucial for dietitians to provide dietary consulting and health care with quality and updated new knowledge. If dietetic system in China becomes standardized with other countries, Chinese dietitians will be able to communicate and exchange the information of newly updated research with other countries in order to reach the co-development and advance in this field for the purpose of improving human health. Furthermore, Chinese dietitians and dietitians from other countries will have the chance to conduct research and facilitate the development of better health care together. 
	Despite of all the potential benefits of becoming internationally standardized, some people still think China should improve the dietetic system based on the original one because they think the international standard doesn't apply to China due to the unique dietary culture in China. Chinese herbal medicine is one of a kind in Chinese diet. Chinese believe herbal medicine is capable of preventing disease and improving physical conditioning when it is cooked with other food ingredients. These people oppose the international standards since they think it is difficult for other countries to understand how Chinese herbal medicine plays a role in diet and also difficult to explain how it works due to culture and history uniqueness. However, in fact, their concern is not inevitably true. The obstacle can be overcome by analyzing the chemical composition of Chinese herbal medicine. Although nutrition scientists and dietitians may not be able to understand the traditional Chinese medicine, they can easily recognize its chemical composition and immediately know its function according to chemistry. This is a doable thing, and some scientists in China already start to analyze the chemical composition of Chinese herbal medicine, expressing traditional Chinese medicine in a way that is understandable and appropriate for people from other countries. Therefore, these conservative people who contest applying international standards to Chinese dietetic system should be open-minded and accept newly updated items. 
	For above mentioned reasons, China has to reestablish a dietetic system with international standards in order to reach progress of nutrition science research, provide job opportunities and developing space for dietetic professionals, and, the most important one, have other members of ICDA to supervise the operation of dietetic system in China, preventing the chaotic status from happening again. Because of these promising improvements, becoming international standardized in a line with other countries is a must-do thing that requires immediate action. 
