Why People Have Extreme Desire to Pursue Perfect Body Image 
Have you ever thought about the deep motivations and purposes under your every behavior? You know you skip meals because you want to be slimmer. But do you know why you want to be slim? But keep asking why, we may end up like "It is human's nature to pursue being beautiful." People naturally like beautiful clothes, decorations and perhaps beautiful persons. Under this circumstance, we should not blame these people for going on a diet. It makes sense. But it is only part of the truth. When skipping meals becomes eating disorders, positive desire becomes endless stress, we cannot explain it just with "human nature". It will be unusual to control weight at such an abnormal level. In China, there is an old saying: things turn into their opposites when they reach the extreme. I am forcing on these extreme behaviors rather than healthy ways like working out to keep slim. Again, asking same questions, I think another answer will be that they hope to own an easy life by having good appearance. They long for acceptance from others. In other words, those people don't have strong self-identification. 
As people have such a human nature, when they see attractive people in daily life, who are also popular, being the center of the groups, they will probably compare themselves with them and feel a little bit sad: They are so amazing. My legs are not that long and my eyes are small. For most people, this emotion will not last long. They are sure they have good personalities. It is fine not being attractive physically. And then they continue their normal life. However, when you observe people with serious body dissatisfaction, you will find it lasts for months and years. Their experience like being mocked is so indelible that it influences their judgment greatly. It means they cannot tell correctly which are the results of having imperfect body. They tend to blame all their misfortune for imperfect shape by comparison with the advantages attractive people have. For example, they think they are not welcomed by others because of the appearance. Generally, this attitude leads to anther situation: I do not have courage to pursue something since I am not good-looking. This situation causes long-time inferiority. We all know people with inferiority long for other people's recognition. So do those with extreme body dissatisfaction. They need acceptance. In their opinion, only being perfect can earn it. 
It is reasonable for people trying to get acceptance from others. Unfortunately, this desire for people with extreme body dissatisfaction are under an abnormal level again. Why they concern about others' opinions so much? Are they vain? I do not think so. We know a confident person think in a way like I can do it by my effort. But it is not true for low self-esteem people. They doubt their abilities. The reason is the same. They cannot tell the correct relationship between their misfortune and their appearance. But they have to deal with various difficulties. Where can they get confidence? The only way is from others. They believe in others more than themselves. Otherwise, how can they spare no efforts to win acceptance? If someone laughs at me and says you are ugly, I will feel angry and answer: It is none of your business. But for people with inferiority, they will agree with this judgment and feel sad. What they are lack of? That is self-identification. It means those people cannot find their own progress and feel satisfied. They can only receive satisfaction by other peoples' words. Similarly, if someone laughs at he, he will not try to argue with it, but just accept. It in turn gains his inferiority. 
In conclusion, seeking acceptance from others is the main motivation for people to do some unhealthy behavior. But we should notice it is the lack of self-identification that leads the desire to become crazy. 
