Imagine a world where you could go around the world in an airplane twice or maybe even thrice without stopping or refueling. Imagine paying only about $30-$50 for an airplane ticket. Yes, it might sound too farfetched but it will be possible in the future sooner than one might imagine. Researches and tests are being conducted on the use of solar energy in airplanes and many of the researches show positive results. With the use of solar energy in planes, they no more require jet fuel to power the engines, and by using only the sun's energy to power the engines, in theory one could fly on forever! Solar power is nothing new to mankind. It has been around since a very long time. It has been used in houses for heating purposes for a long time and has been in use for several other purposes. But using solar energy in airplanes is a relatively new concept. Through various researches and studies, it has been found that solar power can be used only in surveillance and research airplanes and not in commercial airplanes. 
Solar energy provides sufficient energy to heat up houses. Or it can even be converted into electrical energy to operate electronic devices. But it just doesn't produce enough horsepower to power large engines, especially large airplane engines that require a lot of horsepower. That is why it is not practical to run large airplanes on solar power. But it is possible to incorporate this technology into smaller and lighter aircraft. NASA has been experimenting on its solar plane, the Pathfinder, which would be used for environmental research and assessment. It would be used to detect forest nutrient status, hurricane effects, coral reef health, and for several other researches. The Pathfinder is also an unmanned airplane that would be used to observe remote and inaccessible places of the earth (NASA, 2014). 
Many researches have concluded that solar powered airplanes can be used for research and observatory purposes. But it just cannot be used in commercial airplanes because commercial airplanes are huge and require an immense amount of power that cannot be attained from solar power. Solar powered research and observatory planes can be used to observe and assess different parts of the globe, especially in remote areas, where human access is very limited. Its true satellites are doing the job at present. But it costs millions of dollars to send a satellite in space. The solar airplanes can orbit the earth at normal flying altitudes nonstop for years, and in theory forever. This is because it requires absolutely no fuel. It utilizes the sun's energy during the day and uses fuel cells, which recharge during the day, at night. These solar planes can be used for communication purposes as well. According to an online article in the Treehugger by Michael Graham Richard (2014), Google is planning to operate a few unmanned solar powered planes that would help in communication and data collection. It would also be used for imaging and mapping. This would greatly reduce the operating costs that would have been otherwise spent on satellites. These planes will fly for years gathering information and is much cheaper to repair and replace them. 
Manned solar airplanes have also been developed. But because of the extreme weight restrictions, only one or two people can travel at a time in a solar airplane. One very revolutionary use of solar airplanes could be in transportation. Though they cannot be used in commercial planes, they can be used as a single seated transportation vehicle. It is very common to rent cars presently. Imagine renting an airplane! The concept of car rentals can be infused with solar planes. Since solar airplanes are single seated, or at max double seated, sometime in the future we could be renting airplanes to go from one place to the other. It would be cheaper too with the increasing fuel prices, as solar planes use absolutely no fuel. And it would definitely be faster. 
So to summarize it all, solar power can only be used in research and observatory airplanes and not in commercial airplanes, though it can be used as a single seated transporter in the future. Solar airplanes consume no fuel, therefore it would greatly impact the economy as well as cause the environment no harm. It is therefore a technology of the future. 
