Argumentative Essay 
Asian carps-the problem can't be ignored 
Since Asian carps were first introduced in U.S river system, they very soon occupied every corner, taking overwhelming advantage compared to local fish species. People hate carps; the government feels helpless about them; local fish species are at the edge of dying out. However, with the specialists' efforts, Asian carps have been proven to be controllable as long as barriers are used and proper utilization. Despite the fact that people have been long "scared" of Asian carps, carps can actually even become a great resource if people deal with them in scientific way. However, the number of carps is tremendous: rivers in U.S. can't wait longer for actions in eliminating carps. 
Now, the most significant latent danger of Asian carps is that carps are sneaking into Great Lake, which might cause billions of economic loss every year. Barriers have been tested to be effective in stopping Asian carps out of the Great Lake system. Nevertheless, many people, especially politicians from Republican Party, are holding a skeptical attitude in whether billions dollars spending in building barriers would be worthy. According to IBtimes, federal government is planning to spend 18 billion dollars in electric barrier near river entrance of Illinois and Michigan P. Ross, Feb 14, 2014. <name>, who I interviewed a few weeks before, stated that this type of barrier can effectively stopped up to 80% of carps. Notwithstanding a few carps can still run in the Great lake, <name> also stated that with multiple type or barriers including sound and bubble barrier, light barrier using together, the barrier could act like a steel wall that no carps are able to slip out of the barrier <name>, Interview, Nov 3, 2015. One reason Republican Party uses to against barrier construction is that the barrier could act as a hinder in Great Lake area 's water transportation; barriers won't allow big ship running on the river. Conversely, building barrier will actually help shipping in the Great lake area. Building barrier will accompany with building dam elevator. Currently the lake capacitate 70,000 tons ships, but dam elevator will double the shipping capacity GLIN, Nov 22, 2015. It is undeniable that building dams will cost billions of dollars. Given that Great lake produces 1. 5 million jobs position and 62 billions of wage every year, the crucial position of Great lake ecosystem is so obvious Sea Grant, Nov 22, 2015. More importantly, the invaluable, beloved and beautiful Great Lake is irreparable once carps become the king of the lake. Building barriers will definitely be the best choice in either economical way or ecological way. Barriers that stop Asian carps could be treasure for the future generation of United State citizens and whole world. 
Barrier can be effective in stopping Asian carps, but utilization of carps is the final weapons to wipe Asian carps out of U.S. Asian carps have a notorious reputation in North America, though carps have been delicacy in oriental countries for thousands years. American people don't eat carps is a consequence of the American's stereotype towards Asian carps. The bad reputation comes from another fish that also named carp. This type of fish is feed on the riverbed nutrition, so the meat also contains a type of earthy smell. On the contrary, Asian carps feed on plankton that floats in the river, and this fact grantees Asian carps taste exquisitely. Another reason American people don't eat carps is carps' bony structure. Actually, carps can be cut into fillet that is boneless, and volunteer who tried the carps stated that carp meat actually taste like cod B. Ciaramitaro, June, 1975. In addition, carps meat can also be grinded and then made into fish hot dog. Unlike pork and beef, carps are high in protein but very low in cholesterol and fat; eating carps dog can effectively prevent stroke and heart disease. The low price and good taste make Asian carps hot dog the best choice for high quality protein J, Cermele, May 9, 2012. In the case that Asian carps have been proven to be the cheaper, healthier, higher-quality food, American who had a bad impression should dump their stereotypes and give a try for carps. Once American can start utilize carps, people can gain cheap and high quality food as well as their healthy river. 
Reference 
Ross, P. 2014, February 18. Chicago Plans $18 Billion Defense Against Invasive Asian 
Carp After Reports Of 'Dangerous' Attacks On Boaters. IBtimes. 
GLIN Greaet Lake Information. 2015, November 22. Great Lake Port & Shipping. 
Michigan Sea Grant. 2015, November 22. Economic Vitality and the Great Lake. 
Barbara. C. June 1975. How to Clean, Fillet, and Cook Carp. Mother Earth New. 
Joe. C. 2015, May 9. Grab The Mustard, It's Time for Asian Carp Hot Dogs. Field 
Stream. 
4 
[Type text] 
