The popularity factor analysis of electric vehicles 
What is the first impression of people while talking about electric vehicles? Green-power, non-pollution and excellent performance. There are so many good qualities attract customers' sight. After more than 10-year development, electric vehicles earned great attention recently. However, electric vehicles, which are seen to be the tendency of future, are not so popular in the vehicle market nowadays. Although electric vehicles should be popular because of a good number of benefits, their high prices set back the popularity of them. 
In all ages, customers select goods by comparing different factors and evaluating the advantages and disadvantages, especially on expensive goods like cars. And if just thinking about benefits, electric vehicles should be so popular for their great advantages. 
Basically, there are two aspects. First, the benefits of electric vehicles in environment area are significant. Unlike normal gasoline vehicles, electric vehicles do not consume any fossil fuel. With no fuel combustion in the motor, they can be "0" pollution. (Yang and Zhang 1664-1667) If they become popular, the consumption of gasoline in the whole world range will have an observable decrease, for gasoline vehicles used a great part of the gasoline produced worldwide. That is the result that everyone happy to see. What's more, Dr. Blake Hylton, a professor of Purdue University College of Engineering, mentioned that although electric vehicles consume energy just like gasoline vehicles, which is criticized, the energy they use, electricity can be generated much more environment-friendly than fuel. That's because compared to producing the right amount energy within each gasoline vehicles, producing the same electricity they need in a big power station results in less resource waste and helps to control the pollutant release better. So the electricity can been thought cleaner. With the environment issue become more and more serious nowadays, more and more people are trying their best to protect the environment. So the environment-friendly electric vehicles can their first choice. Meanwhile, the electromotor produces less and less noise than gasoline motor. The only noise will be the tire noise which has an amount that is less than ten percent of the amount of gasoline vehicles' noise. (Yang and Zhang 1664-1667) Electric vehicles can help to make the city road less noisy and more pleasant. When all gasoline vehicles have been replaced by electric vehicles, the city road won't be hot and uncomfortable anymore. From pedestrians' point, electric vehicles produce less harmful noise. From drivers' point, even the one who do not care about environment at all has a good reason to choose electric vehicles because driving electric vehicles is quiet, in another word, comfortable and enjoyable. 
Second, the great performance is another reason why electric vehicles should be popular. Since vehicles were invented, people are always pursuing faster and faster vehicle's speed. Vehicle is not only a transportation but also the machine that helps people reach the speed that human can never be and the place human can never get. Even though some people do not care about speed, they will still willing to choose high performance vehicles because high performance means easier to control. The performance benefits of electric vehicles are great too. They can be shown by data. One of the best electric vehicles, Tesla Model S, has an attractive specification. It can speed up from 0 to 60 mph in 3. 7 seconds and travel more than 300 miles without being charged. That's an amazing goal! What's more, Tesla Model S can adapt all of 110, 220 and 440 volt of voltage, vests it great suitability. And the charging time is short, as well, can be finished 80% in on half an hour. (Wong 36-38, 40, 42-44) It is a dream partner for people who love speed. All this data shows the benefits of electric vehicles. Remember, those data shown above are based on a car that has been released for more than 2 years. The electric vehicles technology is developing at an unimaginable rate that the performance benefits will become bigger and bigger in the next few years. From performance aspect, they have transcended gasoline vehicles in almost all areas. 
Of course customers need to think about many things other than benefits like price while doing selection. Not to be surprised, in most time customer take price an even greater concern than benefits. If just thinking about advantage, it seems there is no reason for customers not choosing electric vehicles. However nothing is perfect in the world. Electric vehicles have pretty much higher prices. The price data from one of the greatest vehicles' information websites, Cars.com, shows that two same model vehicles, the one powered by electricity is at least $10,000 more expensive than the same model gasoline vehicle. Sometimes this price difference can be $30,000, the total cost of a luxury car like BMW 3 series. Because most customers just want a vehicle for family use and won't pay a lot for the vehicle, high-price electric vehicles are not their best choices. For the price of electric vehicles' prices is much higher than the prices of gasoline vehicles, there is no way for electric vehicles to be popular in the market. The past research indicate that the greatest factor of high electric vehicle's price is the high cost of battery cost. Dr. Blake Hylton also stated that the battery technology has been left behind for really a long time. And the producing procedure needs rare metal, which is very expensive. That makes the cost of battery become the biggest part of the cost of whole vehicle. Another reason is electric vehicles manufactures are still using high price to cover the research cost. After all, electric vehicles are very new products. (Brooker, Thornton and Rugh 1-12) 
Electric vehicles have a mass of benefits. No matter the low output of air pollutant and noise or the high performance, they are all very attractive to customers. It seems they should be popular in vehicle market without surprise. But the market is realistic and the customers are rational. High price do obstacle the popularity. In fact, it has a significant effect. So if electric vehicle manufactures want to sell their products, it is their priority to lower the price. Fortunately, many engineers are working hard on the improvement of battery technology. And as time goes by, manufactures do not need a high profit to cover the research cost. Eventually electric vehicles will be popular one day after their prices become approachable because of cost decrease and yield increase. 
Work Cited 
Hylton, Blake. Personal interview. October 20, 2014. 
Yang, Yang, and Rutong Zhang. "Study on Effect of Electric Vehicle Industry to Energy and Environment." Advanced Materials Research. 805-806. (2013): 1664-1667. Print. 
Wong, Bill. "All-Electric Vehicles Prepare to Shock the Automotive Market." Electronic Design. 58. 6 (2010): 36-38, 40, 42-44. Print. 
Brooker, Aaron, Matthew Thornton, and John Rugh. "Technology Improvement Pathways to Cost-effective Vehicle Electrification." (2010): 15. Print. 
"Find New & Used Cars." New Cars, Used Cars, Car Reviews. Cars.com, 8 Dec. 2014. Web. 8 Dec. 2014. <http://www.cars.com/>. 
