P05D03 Argumentative Essay 
April 18, 2015. 
What Society Should Do to Improve Air Quality 
	In this era of modernism, excessive development have cause a potential threat not only to the future generation of humanity but the present generation as well. The current society is so driven to advance rapidly and their persistency to do so has led to a massive problem that is a serious threat to Mother Nature - air pollution. Air pollution is considered one of the most harmful pollution compared to other types of pollution. However, despite air pollution already being such a harmful phenomena to humans, there is only a small fraction of people working together to help reduce or improve the current situation. In order for this situation to improve, society should practice good habits to conserve whatever unharmed clean air resources that are left for the future generation. 
	The poor surrounding air quality is partly due to the extensive usage of gas-powered lawnmowers and outdoor barbeques. These activities releases harmful emissions into the surrounding environment. We should also use lower our usage our barbeque grills and convert to other healthier alternatives such as grilling or steaming. Gas-powered lawnmowers should be replaced by chargeable electric powered ones because they will emit a lot less emissions which will cause less air to be polluted in the process. According to a study led by researchers at Harvard School of Public Health, reduction in fine particulate shows an increase in life expectancy (Dominici, Dockery, & Correia, 2012). By changing our lifestyles towards the healthier alternatives stated earlier, we not only help improve air pollution, we also lengthen our years of life and lower cost of living by doing so. 
Another main reason that air pollution is on the rise is because of the increase in daily usage of transportation especially personal vehicles such as cars and motorcycles. This is because owning a personal vehicle has grown to become a necessity in the current society to get from one place to another. According to a research regarding worldwide vehicle ownership and income growth, there is an observed upward trend where vehicle ownership increased from 400 vehicles per 1000 people in the 1960's to over 800 vehicles per 1000 people in year 2002 (Dargay, Gately, & Sommer, 2007). Similar trends are also observed in the Asian and European region. The rapid increase in vehicle usage cause carbon monoxide and other hazardous toxic emissions to be released into the air and consequently humans are exposed to them. In order to overcome this problem, we should practice the habit of car-pooling and utilizing the public transportation available such as buses and trains. The demand for personal vehicles would then decrease thus the manufacturers would not produce as many vehicles. 
When the demand for personal vehicles decreases, the manufacturers would also produce less vehicles. This would also reduce the amount of factories and plants needed to produce the vehicles. This reduction in required factories and building plants for manufacturing would then reduce deforestation of a lot of rainforests. This would mean that there would be more trees to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen through the process of photosynthesis. This would indirectly reduce air pollution and improve air quality for humans to breathe. To improve it further, trees planting known as the process of reforestation should be organized to further populate the forests. In the long-term, this can preserve the clean air for the future generation. Planting more trees can also prevent the many occurrence of soil erosion. The tree roots are strong and can help stabilize the soil in the ground 
especially during the rainy weather when water is absorbed into the ground and starts to loosen the soil (Popular Mechanics, 2013). 
	Some parties such as workers' unions may argue that the reduction of plants and factories may cause an uproar due to the possible hike in the unemployment rate. The high unemployment rate would then cause the poverty level to increase which will then decrease the standards of living for many citizens. However, these problems can be overcome by the government reintroducing recycling habits. The government can encourage active recycling habits by starting a program which rewards people for recycling their recyclable items. Following the increase in the recycling habit, there would be a higher need for the expansion of recycling centers all over the country. This expansion would then create more jobs for people in the society which will indirectly contra most of the jobs lost in the beginning. This attempt might be seen as a long-shot but given time and continuous effort between organizations and the government, it is highly likely to happen because the habit of recycling is not the introduction of an entirely new concept to the people but just merely an upgraded continuity of what has already been practiced for some time now. 
	Air pollution took a long period of time to develop and worsen. People need to know the severity of this matter if our ignorance towards the poor air quality is allowed to go on. People seem to take this matter lightly as its effects are still not jeopardizing a big part of their lives yet. But the longer we wait, the problem with our air quality will definitely take for it to be restored to its original state. To ensure that the severity of this matter does not continue, governmental and non-governmental associations as well as the general public must cohesively work together in order to improve the current air quality. It will only slow down the process if there is no cooperation between 
any of the parties involved. When we are united and driven towards the cause, we can fix the matters at hand which is air pollution and how it is deteriorating our standards of living and hopefully put in extra efforts to preserve whatever natural resources we have left. 
