Argumentative Essay, D3 
Eng 106i 
4.23. 2016 
Drug addiction in babies- an overlooked tragedy 
All societies deal with a vast variety of problems and conflicts. One major problem in most societies is drug abuse. It has been a problem over a long period of time and it has come to the point that drug abuse, to a certain extent, has become a common and consistent problem which society chooses not to deal with, or simply runs away from it. The reason I believe that drug abuse is such a crucial issue is that; in it lay the roots of many other problems for example, violence (domestic or other), high suicide rates, high crime rates and now drug addiction in infants and new born babies. In the following paper I will be discussing the latter. Even though drug abuse, being an old problem, has faded into the subconscious of many it has given birth to a new and outrageous crisis, which is drug addiction in babies. Drug abuse by pregnant women is at a rise and subsequently the number of reported cases of substance dependent babies has also increased thrice the initial value reported between 2006 and 2008 (Warren, 2016). This needs to stop and the public needs to be aware of this horrible occurrence. 
Substance abuse has infiltrated the rational reasoning of pregnant women. They abuse drugs despite knowing that it cannot be good for the fetus. This substance abuse leads to babies being born already addicted to the drug abused by the mother during pregnancy. Some may argue that drug addiction in babies does not necessarily mean high fetal/infant mortality rate and hence does not need immediate attention. This a misconception is because as a consequence of this drug abuse the fetus/infant develops Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS). This has a caused a 74-fold increase in sudden infant death syndrome (Minozzi S, Amato L, Bellisario C, Ferri M, Davoli M.). Along with this increase in mortality the baby suffers from narcotic withdrawal which includes tremors and seizures, postnatal growth deficiency which comprises of slow weight gain and rapid weight loss, microcephaly (A condition in which a baby's head is significantly smaller than expected, due to abnormal brain development) and neuro-behavioural problems (Minozzi et Al.). 
These grave incidents are ignored and are not given importance by the society. Many people are not aware that drug abuse by pregnant women can lead to such a consequence and hence need to be educated about this horrible occurrence. Drug abuse carries a social taboo with it and where this social taboo maybe a good thing in a sense that it does not promote or encourage substance abuse it also has a disadvantage as people avoid talking about it and they avoid being associated with it. As a consequence of lack of discussion, drug related problems are often hidden and are not allowed to surface enough to be dealt with. An article published in the guardian spoke of reasons of addiction where the author said "Addiction is a symptom of something very wrong with our society. The reason why drugs are popular is because drugs work. They allow people in pain, whom society has rejected." (Chris Arnade, 2016). Since people are not educated about how to deal with such a problem they are unable to help those around them. 
Due to this neglect by members of the community there has been a rise in reported cases of such babies. Between 2006 and 2008 the cases of drug addicted babies reported was 1. 7 in every 1000 babies born and for the years from 2010 to 2014 the number of reported cases was 5. 3 in every 1000 babies born (Warren, 2016). To stop further rise in these cases of substance dependent babies, society needs to step up and start taking responsibility. Since this a problem that exists in communities it is best if members of the community try and bring about a change at a very basic and fundamental level. A simple gesture of help to the woman abusing drugs can bring about a great change in her life and may turn things around. As mentioned by <name> , a Ph D candidate for research in substance abuse at <place> (2016), if a person experiencing drug abuse is shunned and isolated from his or her society it raises the chances of their habit getting worse. 
People may propose that in order to curb drug addicted babies, society should help teenagers who abuse at a young age so that they should not grow up to become substance abusers and hence the numbers regarding drug addicted babies would decrease. If a teen is engaging in these risky behaviors, he or she probably isn't quite ready to be a parent yet, but those same teens appear to be the most likely to have a child appear to be the most likely to have a child (Cavazos-Rehg, Krauss, Spitznagel, Schootman, Cottler, Bierut, 2010). Whereas this maybe a valid claim many of the drug abusers associated with the phenomenon of drug addicted babies start using later in their life. As schedule 1 drugs such as Heroin, LSD and Ecstasy are easily available to a more mature and adult population because drug dealers often avoid selling such drugs to minors. 
Among youths aged 12 to 17, the rate of current illicit drug use was 8. 8 percent in 2013 and the rate of current use of illicit drugs among young adults aged 18 to 25 in 2013 was 21. 5 percent. (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (2014)). Secondly hardcore drugs are better biologically managed by an older population. This means that their body is physically mature enough to handle the effect of the drug along with the fetus. The response of a child to a drug is different from the response of an adult to the same drug for multiple biological and physiological reason (Yaffe, 2000) 
In conclusion, drug addiction in babies is a real phenomenon that is increasing in number due to both lack of awareness and hence; action by society. This is starting to become a very neglected and suppressed problem and it needs immediate attention and action. The babies undergo many difficult withdrawal symptoms such as tremors and irritability and they may also have to deal with the disabilities that will be attached to them their entire life. People need to start taking action by reaching out to those at risk of being a victim of drug abuse and if not that then they should attempt to gain knowledge about it and pass it on to other so that the helping network grows. 
Reference: 
Arnade C. (2016, February). Why I don't use Heroin. The Guardian, Retrieved from http://www.theguardian.com/society/2016/feb/25/by-understanding-why-people-use-drugs-i-now-know-why-i-dont-use-them 
Cavazos-Rehg PA, Krauss MJ, Spitznagel EL, Schootman M, Cottler LB, Bierut LJ. Associations between multiple pregnancies and health risk behaviors among U.S. adolescents, Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 47(6), Dec., 2010. pp. 600-603. 
Minozzi S, Amato L, Bellisario C, Ferri M, Davoli M (2013). Maintenance agonist treatments for opiate-dependent pregnant women. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2013, 1(12). Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0013878/ 
Warren C. (2016, February). Number of drug-addicted babies on the rise in Sonoma County. The Press Democrat, Retrieved from http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5074500-181/number-of-drug-addicted-babies-on?artslide=0 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (2014), Results from the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Summary of National Findings, Rockville, MD U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Retrieved from: http://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/NSDUHresults PDFWHTML2013/Web/NSDUHresults2013.pdf 
Sumner Yaffe, M.D (2000). Rational Therapeutics for Infants and Children: Workshop Summary. Washington D.C The National Academic Press. Retrieved from: http://www.nap.edu/read/9816/chapter/4 
1 
