Unfair Situation for International Students to Get Scholarships 
International students are less competitive while they want to get scholarships. They cannot apply for scholarships directly from the school because of some policies, and they have to compete for the limited amount of scholarships given by departments. In my view, it is very unfair. There should be equal chances for both international students and domestic students to compete for the scholarships, for the reasons that international students pay more than domestic students, work as hard as domestic students, and have the same desire of getting scholarships. 
One of the reasons that international students cannot get scholarships from the school is that this part of scholarships came from tax revenue of the government, and governments want to give this part back to tax payers. However, I believe that since international students pay much more on tuition than domestic students do, and also they pay taxes when they do purchases in the United State, so they should have their own chances to apply for the scholarships. As for some need-based scholarships, I think that international students can apply for it with some work. Different from a job, this kind of scholarships can help international students improve their life well without restrictions. 
Other than the fact that international students pay a lot, international students work hard so that they deserve the chance of applying for scholarships. There is still one common stereotype that many international students do not work hard. However, international students work as hard as domestic students do. There are large number of international students learning in libraries and cafeterias, and they spend over five hours a day on learning by themselves. I have a friend who is an upperclassman. He usually gets up at eight and study all day, including three hours of class and five hours of self-studying. When I asked him why he was spending so much time on learning, he answered that he wants to work hard to get good grade. Thus, international students actually work as hard as domestic students do, and they should have the equal chance to compete for the scholarships. 
In conclusion, international students pay more than domestic students so that their payment to school and government is also a large amount, work as hard as domestic students do so that they also deserve the chance of competing, and have the same desire of competing for the scholarships. Overall, the university should give international students an equal chance to compete with domestic students for the scholarships. 
