10 December 2015 
Food Social Safety Nets: a good way of solving food security problems 
In developing countries 
Because of some historical, environmental, political and populations problems, the food insecurity became a huge problem in a lot of countries, especially in developing countries (M, Duncan, Cynthia). Governments cannot let this problem become more and more serious and they built food social safety nets. A completed food social safety net can solve food security problems in developing countries. Because it can bring poor people money for food and healthy food. In order to build and improve a food social safety nets, developing countries' governments need to pay a lot of money and attentions. They have to request money and food aid from international organizations even UN because of the national money lacking. 
People in developing countries get benefits from food social safety nets. One of the biggest reason why people in developing countries can't get food is because they don't have enough money The price of food can be controlled by food social safety nets and the ridiculous food price rising can be avoided (FAO). If people still don't have enough money to buy food, they can also get some aid money from the social safety nets. With these money, they can buy food they need.10.2% of households In Jordan and 25.3% of households in Syria received cash assistance through the food social safety nets (Doocya). This function was called Price subsidies (Haggblade, Diallo, Staatz 5). 
Another biggest problem is the quality and quantity of food. The food social safety nets can offer people much healthier food. These are a lot of examples which shows that food social safety nets are a correct the useful way to solving food insecurity problems. In the article Food Safety Nets: International Experience and Implications for Mali , this function of food social safety nets called directly feeding. Government provide school lunches for poor students, Soup kitchens and homeless shelters, provide free prepared food to selected poor people. 
In Mongolia, government use 9 million US dollars to design and start the food stamp program, and another 3 million US dollars were used to improve the program. With these money, at least 100 thousand poor families can get healthier and nutritious food. The world bank approved a 13 million US dollars' program in order to help the food and agriculture safety net in Cambodia(Mohamad). If the food social safety nets are not useful, The World Bank will not approved so much money on the social safety nets program. Except getting food from international organizations, food social safety nets can also use the national food resources. In Swaziland, because of the unbalanced food distribution, a lot of people have food insecurity problems. Then, community food kitchens appear. Neighborhoods share food and urban households can get food from rural households (Tevera 248). 
But there are still a lot of people thought that food social safety nets are useless. Because of the serious corruption situation in developing counties, money for food social safety nets cannot totally used for solving food security problems for people (Dr ze). In China, each year, government used billions of dollars for the the food social safety nets. But money is not directly sent to people. Firstly, government sent money to the provinces' account, then small cities' account, different districts in cities, street councils, finally those people. When money was sent to those people who needed, only little left. And after so many years running food social safety nets, the food security problems in developing countries did not change apparently. People also think that without making good plans and rules for food social safety nets by considering the current situation, even those developing countries can get a lot of supports from international organizations, the food security condition still cannot change. 
As we all know, every coin has two sides. If we want to know whether the food social safety nets are useful, we need to compare the two sides of it. The corruption problems are big problems in developing countries and it really make food social safety nets lost a lot of money. However, there are still a lot of money can be used to solve food insecurity problems. In Jordan and Syria, because of the war and other emergencies, the corruption was really common in these countries, however, there are still 18% of households in Jordan and 93% of households in Syria can get aid food (Doocya). Food insecurity problems are not some problems which can be easily solved, it always combined with human civilizations, especially poor developing countries. A very small progress in food security is a huge success for the food social safety nets. Different countries have different situation for food insecurity problems, making plans and rules are definitely not an easy work to do. Governments need to considering history food insecurity problems and and current condition. Only with a lot of experiments, even failures, the good plan for the food social safety nets can be found. 
Food social safety nets can make benefits to more than just people, it can also make multiple benefits to developing countries. With the social safety nets, the aids and food donates can be well organized and effectively distribute. Without the safety nets, there are still a lot of aid food. However, because of the lack of organizing, food can not be well used, most of they will be wasted. Also, building connections between social safety nets (developing countries) and international organizations (like UN) can let organizations know the food insecurity situations in those developing countries better, then organizations can help with more specific targets in order to solve the different food problems in different developing countries. Solving food problems are not only the responsibility for governments but also what citizens should pay attention. Food social safety nets are the backup insurance for people, which can also encourage people trying their best to solve food problems. 
Food social safety nets in developing countries are really a good way to solve food insecurity problems. However, the sure thing is that there are still a lot of other useful ways to solve the difficult and serious food problems. Such as improving productivity and reducing the waste during transport. As one of the human, we need to try our best to help solving food insecurity problems. In that case, less people will die because of hunger and this fits the idea of humanitarianism, which means our world will be more and more peaceful. we hope one day in the future, food problem can be well solved. 
