WOMEN IN COMBAT: YES OR NO? 
Women have shown their strengths in a wide array of fields in the 21st century, including in some the toughest and most dangerous- in the front lines. Although women have been part of the front lines for a centuries allowing women to join the combat units of the army is still a controversial as well as one of the most debated topics the United States Department of Defense DOD has to face. Although a petition was finally passed in 2013 allowing women to join the combat units, there are several major reasons why women should not be allowed to join the combat units of the US army; These include internal conflicts within a squad due to the presence of mixed genders and the difficulty in maintaining the high professional attitude required by these soldiers. 
Trust is the foundation that any squad in the battlefield depends heavily on. Trust that their partner is watching their back while they are clearing a room or an area with possible insurgent activity, trust that they will not abandon you when you need them the most and most importantly trust that they don't shoot you "accidently". If this trust is broken then the whole squad falls apart as they are not working as efficiently as possible, and may even end up increasing the casualties rather than decreasing it. With the addition of women into the combat units the dynamic of the squad has to change in order to accommodate their female "bother in arms" which can be detrimental to the squad as now they also have to worry about society's male and female interaction criteria amongst other far more important things in a war. Additionally, given any social scenario having mixed genders inevitably leads to relationships being formed between genders and if you people end up liking the same female then there certainly will be internal conflict stemmed from the lack of trust. This issue will be more prevalent when the military hierarchy is at play, in other words the conflict involves higher ranking officer and a lower ranking squad member. Furthermore, in addition to decreasing trust and increasing internal conflict within the squad introduction of women into the combat units will also hinder the professional attitude that needs to be maintained at all times during a war. The presence of mixed genders will tend to make the atmosphere a bit more social which in turn nourishes the notion if forming relationships, which in turn decreases trust and increases internal conflict. 
On the other hand, it is indisputable how valuable the women were during the war in Iraq. During the war intel regarding the enemy's hideout was of top priority buy due to the local culture the women in the village would not talk to the me in the army. Therefore, women were the only way that the army was able to talk to villagers, specifically women, and gather vital intel about the enemy's movements and taken them down. While women's vital role in the war was inarguable, their only role was to collect intel and given the dynamic nature of the war everyone must be adaptable so that they can perform any task that the situation demands. This is due to the fact that human labor, specifically military recruits, is a scarce resource and if the recruits are adaptable it significantly reduces the casualties as the number of people fight would significantly decrease. Moreover, allowing women to join the combat units for the primary reason of gathering intel might not be the best use of this resource. Even more so, given sufficient time the men would have been able to gather the same intel, though the means and the time taken will be different. 
In conclusion, women should not be allowing to join the combat units of the US army it will induce a more social atmosphere which nurtures relationships between the troops causing internal conflicts and eventually causing extremely serious trust issues; all of which inhibits the squad to perform missions at optimal level and may even increase the casualties instead of decreasing it. But it is undebatable how valuable women have been in gather crucial info about the enemy and their movements which lead to US troops winning small battels. Then again it is also important to note that the battlefield is ever changing and so everyone have to be able to do everything should the need arise and allowing women to join the combat units for the main purpose of intel gathering may not be an optimal use of scarce resource- labor. 
