The future of retailing market will not only survive but thrive 
With the dramatic rise of online shopping, the business environment is getting tougher for retailing market to keep making profit. As a result, many people including experts predict that the future of retailing market is hopeless. Most reasons can be summarized by a report from an investment company called AMPCAPITAL (2013). The company stated that retailers are facing a deteriorating external environment, existing high fixed costs like rental expenses can account for anywhere up to 45% of a retailers' operating costs based. The increase in capital expenditure leads to a sharp decrease in margin. Compare with the depressed retailing market, the performance of online shopping is way above expectation. Take a look at the latest news just updated by TECHINASIA (2015). Alibaba reached a sale of $14. 3 billion in 2015 double eleven shopping. And mobile sales accounted for nearly 70% of that revenue, which means Alibaba sold $9. 8 billion worth of goods via mobile devices. If most of the people shopping with mobile devices how could retailing market possibly maintaining its business? It seems that the retailing market is really on the verge of a tipping point. However will retailing market fade out in the future? Probably not. 
To figuring out why retailing market can survive in the future, first we need to know about how traditional stores perform nowadays. Patrick Dixon (2013) of Kings College in London pointed out that nowadays retailing is confusing for traditional shops. He concluded that people nowadays shopping in a mixed pattern with higher mobility: shopping in-store for delivery at home, or shopping online for collection in-store, or for collection at a petrol station, or another branch of the same store and so on. It's clear that nowadays people shop in a more complex and flexible way which pay strong focuses on higher mobility and efficiency. Traditional retailing market is gradually getting the key points of the customers nowadays and thus can survive for a long period of time. But as to thrive, others may say that how a physical store can beat out online shopping since everybody goes mobile. 
Most of the people have the stereotype about going online or mobile cause damage to physical retailers, but actually retailers can build a more efficient connection with customer by using digital resources. Google (2014) conducted a research with Ipsos Media CT and Sterling Brands suggested that the relationship between digital and in-store shopping is far more nuanced and interconnected than what we thought online shopping making local retail store obsolete. The research actually provided us some interesting information between online shopping and retail store. First of all, most of us would think that search results online will only send consumers to e-commerce sites. But the truth is that these search results are also a powerful way to drive people to stores. As a result online information can propel people to shop in-store. Second myth is that customers in the store often looking at their smartphone so the retailer loses their attention. The reality can be reversed if retailers can grab customer's attention through search results and their mobile site or app which turns smartphone into the best sales associate. Third rumor is that online research has lowered consumer's expectations of stores; they really just go to a store to transact. The fact is that consumers visit stores for more than just a purchase, and their expectations of retailers are higher than before. They're looking for an informative, customized experience. So Google give a short conclusion is that a store should tailored to the savvy shopper. By busted all those myths, it seems that going online can also turn into a weapon to fight against online shopping. 
Getting to understand the change can be done by going online can be a starting point to thrive. But in order to evolve to be invincible, retailing market still needs a unique skill to evolve. A unique skill that online shopping is lack of from the day it is created. So a whole new concept of retail which hybrids the advantages of both online and offline actually exist. It's called omni-channel retail. Article written by Candice Landau the Managing Editor of Bplans states that omni-channel is the logical evolution of multi-channel retailing simply means that you will use multiple channels (computers, brick-and-mortar stores, direct mail, catalogs, mobile devices, etc) to create a seamless consumer experience. Three tips mentioned by Candice Landau is really helpful. First from psychological side is to optimize locations based on new shopping behaviors. Second from physical side is to integrate all of your operations across channels to create a channel-less operating model. Simply describes as integrated the online shopping experience within a retail stores like using a discount they receive online or pickup online orders. Last of all, innovation. If you are a store owner come up with your own strategies to keep people buying. You will likely need to encourage a mix of mobile, web and in-store actions. Now by glimpsing the future of retail market, omni-channel is at retailing's core. 
Although online shopping does make impact on retailing markets and the trend of online shopping is irreversible, retailing market shouldn't sitting there waiting for death. The future of retail market is still optimistic even robust as soon as it integrate with the interdisciplinary experiences of consumer's behavior. Evolving to omni-channel is essential to win back the market share that previously taken by online shopping and improve profit margin. In conclusion, the retailing market is for customers and by customers. A change in mastering the power of going mobile combine with the talent of physical retail will make a huge difference in getting confidence back. 
