P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15th, 2015 
Are Purdue's LGBTQ Center Anti-Discrimination Programs Effective? 
	The oppression of sexual minority groups is not new - but, due to the slow progress society has made over the past few decades, it is fair to say that in this modern day and age, sexual minority groups such as the LGBTQ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer) group are slowly integrating themselves into the community and are shunned no longer. Especially on college campuses, where young adults are beginning to experiment with their sexual preference, it is even more imperative to design effective anti-discrimination programs that would protect these young adults should they find themselves identifying as LGBTQ. As such, this essay aims to consider whether Purdue's LGBTQ Center should come up with more effective solutions to combat LGBTQ hate crime so to protect the welfare of LGBTQ students. 
	One particular program that Purdue's LGBTQ Center has coordinated for the past two years is the Safe Zone program, whereby volunteers are trained to identify hate-crime incidents happening against LGBQT or minority students, and report these incidents accordingly. In addition, by the end of the training, volunteers are also given a placard that indicates that as being allies of the LGBTQ community. In a personal interview conducted with Dr <Name> the <position>, <Name> mentions that the amount of reports being made have increased, while the amount of actual incident rates have actually gone down. According to <Name>, more than 2000 individuals have volunteered to sign up for the program, and the numbers are increasing each year. These phenomena are indications that the Safe Zone program is in fact effective in reducing LGBTQ hate crime. 
	Besides the Safe Zone program that the LGBTQ center has coordinated, the center also hosts a wide variety of programs every semester in order to educate the public on the dangers of LGBTQ hate crime as well as disseminate relevant information. Such programs include inviting notable speakers to give seminars on recent LGBTQ news, as well as hosting requested panel sessions to discuss any related LGBTQ news. More notably, the center has also partnered up with Purdue's residence hall services to provide a gender-free, inclusive living community for LGBTQ students. This provides an extra level of protection for students against possible hate crimes. With that in mind, on a recent article written in 2014 by Perez and Hussey from the Center of American Progress, they suggested that in order to ensure that students are shielded from discrimination and hate crime, college campuses should provide resources for students and faculty to discuss discriminatory events that have happened to them. This strategy is reflected in the various programs that Purdue's LGBTQ center have hosted, in which they actively aim to disseminate information on how to identify and interrupt discriminatory bahaviour, and therefore indicates that these programs are helpful in protecting the welfare of LGBTQ students on campus. 
	However, as mentioned during the personal interview with <Name>, he says that up till now, there has been no official statistics released on whether these programs do indeed correlate to a decrease in LGBTQ hate crime on campus. As the center had only opened three years ago, the span of time the center has been in operation is too short to conduct research on the impact of these programs. With that being said however, the center does in fact keep track of how many volunteers have been through the Safe Zone program, and while that number is not released officially on Purdue's webpage, it is still an indication that the program is effective. 
	In conclusion, whilst there are no official statistics released on the effectiveness of the Safe Zone program coordinated by Purdue's LGBTQ center, however based on the growing numbers of volunteers as well as placards being placed around campus identifying volunteers as LGBTQ allies, it is safe to say that the programs offered by the center are useful in protecting LGBTQ students from any possible discrimination or hate crime. Moreover, the LGBTQ center also has a designated safe zone in its center that aims to provide students with a safe space to converse and hang out in general. As modern society progresses, although the discrimination and prejudice against social and sexual minority groups have considerably lessened, however it is still necessary to take preventative measures. 
