Adoption should be encouraged 
Adoption is a process which becoming one's parent of non-biological children. But, adoptions means more than that. People share love and joy through adoption. Nowadays, the rate of adopting has grew rapidly in the past few years. As the percentage of adoption increase, it cause lots of issues and concerns. People argued that adoption is whether significant or meaningless. "Adoption, all in all, has served women, children and society well." Carton, 2001. However, I do believe that adoption is beneficial to the women, children and society. Hence, adoption should be encouraged by people. 
The main focus for the adoption agency is to offer the orphans the right home to live along with love and happiness is not mainly to make profit for themselves. It has been argued Goldman, 2013 that adoption should be abolished because adoption agency spent too much money on advertising and made a lot of profit through adoption. The agencies are concentrating on making money instead of focusing on finding the right home for the homeless kids. However, as Goldman states, this argument is not entirely true because a research "Impact of Adoption" 6. Showed that 87% of the kids who are adopted are happy with where they are and satisfied with what they have now. 87% is high percentage for kids who love their current home, and it strongly shows that adoption agencies do mainly focus on choosing the right home for the orphans. Moreover, companies have to make profit through adoption since it is a company with thousands of employees and the reason they spend money on ads is to expand the business and to encourage more people to adopt. In conclusion, most of the adoptive kids are happy where they are and who they are with after adoption. 
Adoption should be encouraged and adoption can even enhance the relationship between adoptive parents. "Adoption should be abolished" by Robinson. The writer states that adoption should be abolished based on her own experience. She got divorced with her husband because they have problems finding the right kid to adopt. The kid she likes her husband did not agree to adopt. Two of them are not agree with each other's decision and they fight for what they want. In spite of this argument, I still thinks that adoption can enhance the relationship between the adoptive parents. Based on what she argued, couples should have at least 3 years' marriage before they are allowed to adopt now. But, back in the day she decided to adopt does not have a rule like this. She did not even have a stable and strong relationship with her husband before they decide to adopt. One of a good example form Mrs. Wells who I interviewed two weeks ago, she stated that the relationship between her husband has enhanced after adoption. They both felt motivated to strive for a better future for their kids and they cherish each other more after adoption. All in all, adoption can strengthen the relationship between couples. 
Adoption, not only can enhance the relationship betweens couples but also is advantageous to the adoptive kid. According to Living in the Shadows Myst, 2009, the writer stated that a story which is one adoptive kid was abused and punished to do everything for the parents. The parents does not treat the kid well. The kid felt like living in the shadows and his personality was totally changed under that situation. However, things like that do happen. But, only a few parents will not be responsible for the kids. In my point of view, adoption is significant and meaningful for the kid. It offers them a chance to be chosen to be in the right home and to be loved. Otherwise, they do not even have the opportunities if society do not offer the chance for them. It is not fair for the kids since only a few kids got punished. Today, the government has really spent time doing the background check for each family before they decide to adopt. Most of the states, people who have ever convicted of any felony before is not allowed to adopt. Under this background check, most of the kids should be in a safe and healthy environment after adoption. To sum up, adoption has lots of benefits for the kids. 
Adoption has more advantages than disadvantages. The main focus for the adoption agency is to offer the orphans a chance to be chosen in the right home to live along with love. Furthermore, couples' relationship enhanced through adoption and adoptive kids have a safe home to live after adoption instead of living in the shelters. In conclusion, adoption is significant and meaningful, not only for the kid, but also for the family. 
