P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Introduction Paragraph....... Graduate school is necessary. 
As Walker pointed out in "Grad School - Now or Later?", a master degree can "set people up in a better position socially, financially, and academically" (p. B5). A graduate degree could have a lot of physical benefits. First of all, a greater earning power is the most common reason to attend graduate school. Compared with undergraduates, graduates can do more irreplaceable tasks, such as research and development, technical control, and system modification. Secondly, obtaining a master degree can open up a wider array of career positions. Financial people usually combine Finance with another major, like Math, Computer Science, and Accounting. Those combinations through graduate programs may lead to a advanced career from banking to investing and consulting positions or help a transition to get a job in IT company. In addition to career dream, graduate study allows students to explore more in their interested areas. If Accounting Principles changes in disposing of property, someone's focused topic, it's a good time to follow up and keep up with advancements. 
Graduate study is so necessary that it's worthy to go back school for it even if people have entered into the job market. It provides a system to help organize one's experience and guide practice. During graduate-level study, people could relate advanced theory with their work experience. For example, MBA programs usually have a plenty of examples of business practices. Having a discussion with other business experts (professors and classmates), people could share and better analyze previous business behaviors. Meanwhile, in some disciplines, having a graduate degree is a necessity for getting a "career" job. While obtaining a graduate degree doesn't always guarantee a future promotion, some government position and senior executives won't allow people without a graduate degree to enter. 
Some people also regard graduate school as a waste of time and money. Of course, people need to somehow move themselves from the job market to pursue a master degree. In this several years, graduates seem to have a tough time. However, to simply consider attending graduate school a debt because people could have been earning money is not that scientific. If people get yield in the future, the current input will usually be counted as investment. When comparing income, people should have to look at someone's entire career and calculate the sum. Looking at the first few years and starting salary doesn't seem very intelligent in the long run. Except from the possible higher salary in the future, graduates have a larger chance to get financial support in school, such as applying for scholarships and financial aids, assisting research, and getting paid as TAs. 
Personally, I would say if you have a good goal in mind, graduate is a right decision as it may benefit you intellectually and professionally. In the highly competitive job market, there is no doubt at any time to pursue a better possible position. Under the help of a graduate degree, to advance one's career and education is not far away. 
