12/3/2015 
Argumentative Paper 
Pros and Cons in Artificial Sweeteners 
Artificial sweetener is taking huge leaps in food processing technologies and its implementation, which provides significant advantages like cost effectiveness, health and the fact that it consists of fewer calories, is definitely a boon to this health conscious generation. Since artificial sweetener is a relatively new product, many people are curious about what happens in human body after ingesting artificial sweeteners and whether it has a negative impact on human health. Some people believe that injecting a large amount of artificial sweeteners can lead to some serious diseases or cause human body to gain weight. After reading tons of research papers, I still feel that artificial sweeteners create more benefits than drawback for either human health or the society. 
To support my argument, I should state that artificial sweeteners are zero calories. It is a hope for people who are struggling because of obesity. According to Journal of American Medicine, more than one-third of U.S. adults have obesity. Obesity is a pressing issue among current teens and many have sought of ways to curb it but haven't been successful. The introduction of artificial sweeteners to the market has really given the society something that actually is a substitute for some carbohydrates but in a much healthier way. Consuming lower calories ensures lesser fat accumulation on the most prone areas like the neck, belly and the buttocks. Also consuming lower calorie sweeteners ensures a healthy heart and it prevents people getting diseases like diabetes. 
Furthermore, artificial sweeteners are also good for teeth compared to regular sugar. Bacteria in mouth ferment regular sugar into acid, which will lead to teeth decay. Consuming a zero calorie substitute that cannot be digested, bacteria in mouth doesn't react with artificial sweeteners and will not cause any dental problems. The enamel corrodes on our teeth over time making it more prone to such decay. A reason for such corrosion is the sugar due to its high content of calories, which reacts with the enamel on the teeth to produce an acid strong enough to corrode it but by replacing our normal sugar by an artificial sweetener substitute, we not only reduce the corrosion but also prevent tooth decay as the artificial sweeteners do not react with bacteria and hence very little or no corrosion takes place. Using artificial sweeteners to make candies for kids will also save a lot of children from the pain of decayed tooth. When I was little, I loved chocolates and candies. Although my parents banned me from eating them before going to sleep, I always snuck one or two into my mouth when they were not paying attention. At the same time, I hate brushing teeth. I would never brush my teeth if my mom wasn't there watching over me. After years of eating candies without brushing my teeth, four of my major teeth had serious decay and I had to go to the dentist. The pain of scooping out the decayed part of my teeth was so much that I never wanted to eat candy or forget to brush my teeth. If we are able to make candies or chocolates out of artificial sweeteners, thousands of children will be avoided from the pain of decayed tooth. Can you imagine how much happiness will that create for both parents and children? 
Artificial sweetener also helps diabetic patients to enjoy their favorite sweet food. Since human body cannot digest artificial sweetener, this won't cause blood sugar to increase as well. According to the American Database Association, around 9.3% of the people suffer from diabetes and as we know it is hard for diabetic patients to find a substitute for their daily sugar dosage, but with the introduction of artificial sweeteners this has become fairly easy and simple from people adding sugar free cubes to their favorite tea or even a pastry or a cake for instance just to enjoy the same delicacy of sweetness and remain healthy. Diabetic patients cannot afford to eat too much normal sugar as sugar largely increases body weight, which aggravates the function of kidney, liver and pancreas. This can decrease the amount of insulin that pancreas produce and make diabetes more severe. Artificial sweeteners play an important role in preventing these as they are made of substitutes that do not harm any organs and cannot be absorbed by human body. They are added to the food to make it taste better and will be excreted out with the remaining food. 
However, some people believe that while digesting artificial sweeteners, brain is stimulated in the same way with taking regular sugar, which need to be consumed by energy. Since human body cannot digest artificial sweetener, instead of losing weight, taking artificial sweeteners cause the opposite for some people. This is because even when they consume more they get less energy from the same amount of artificial sweeteners due to its low calorie content and hence end of consuming more than required and hence resulting in gaining fat and moving towards obesity. In my interview report, I explained how Dr. <name> tested artificial sweeteners in mice and the result she got was opposite with what people thought. Instead of losing weight, mice that were injected with artificial sweeteners became even heavier than they used to be. Dr. <name> believes that same situation may occur on humans. 
If increase of appetite is really a side effect of artificial sweetener, there is an easy way for people who want to lose weight to solve it. Be aware of the side effects and pay more attention to their diet after eating food with artificial sweeteners inside. Have more low-calories food such as cucumber and celery specially after taking artificial sweeteners. If those methods are used properly, I believe artificial sweeteners will actually have a great and positive impact on weight losing and give people a healthier body at the same time. 
All in all, artificial sweetener has its pros and cons. It depends on different body situation to determine whether to use artificial sweeteners or not. Overall if we all use it correctly, artificial sweeteners create more benefits and provide more people with a healthy life. It is definitely aimed towards revolutionizing the health industry if used in the right way and sense but if not it can pretty much lead to more terrible results than what we expect it to be. Although, this might be a bit terrifying but I guess it will be safe to say that the pros definitely outnumber the cons proving that the artificial sweeteners definitely succeeds in serving its purpose to a large extent. 
