Improving Transportation for Better Logistics and Business 
Purdue University 
05/01/2015 
	The global economy has been transformed in recent decades, due largely to improvements in communication and logistics. As shown in multiple sources, communications especially has had a tremendous effect, including on logistics. The spread of online connectivity combined with new and more powerful computer systems has altered the standards of logistics and transportation, but unfortunately such a revolution has not occurred in the actual transportation of goods since the 1970's. We still use the same trucks, trains and ships that we did then, albeit with some improvements. Since electronic technologies have hit a sort of plateau in terms of revolutionary development for the past six or seven years (a trend that might be continuing for some time), the next step in improving logistics needs to be in transportation machinery. 
	A very large portion of the transportation of goods is by eighteen plus wheeled semi-trucks, especially in America where they are the driving force (pun intended) of our economy. While there are many newer designs out on our highways, how much of an improvement do these trucks really offer in the larger scheme of things? They offer marginally better fuel economy, but that is as far as it goes. 
	As the world's population grows larger and larger it will become increasingly difficult to provide goods and services to all of the people. Trucks provide nothing but a limit on our capacity for transportation. While smaller trucks will remain necessary for delivery to local areas, on a larger scale trucks will have to be replaced with more modern and more efficient systems, especially as the demand for sustainable energy logistics grows larger and larger. 
	The future rests in two technologies, and ironically neither of them is truly new designs. The first is trains. Yes, trains being outdated have been discussed in this very essay; however there are many ways rail infrastructure can be improved to meet the demands of the future. Many people have heard about Elon Musk's "Hyperloop" ideas, and while those are a little.out there, less extreme versions of the same idea can be implemented starting today. Magnetic rail propulsion, electric systems rather than diesel hybrids and automation are all ways rail transportation can be improved. 
	The other technology, which can have a big role in the future, is airships (zeppelins or blimps). While they were last used on a wide scale in the 1930's, it was a mistake to abandon the concept altogether due to a few unfortunate accidents. There are actual functioning airship prototypes today that are perfectly safe, can transport a very large amount of product, and are extremely efficient since they are buoyant and use energy only for forward propulsion. These new airship designs have gotten rid of most concerns that generally involve "balloon" type vehicles, such as popping/deflating, to the point that the U.S. Military is planning to commission airships for deploying supplies to battlefields. As stated before, due to their naturally buoyant nature, these aircraft do not waste energy on creating lift for themselves, allowing nature to do that work for them. As a result, a very large craft can be propelled through much less energy usage than a comparable traditional aircraft such as helicopters and airplanes. On an interesting side note, pilot, businessman and heavy metal singer Bruce Dickinson (best known as the lead singer of Iron Maiden) has invested heavily in the new British airship design from Hybrid Air Vehicles. 
	So in conclusion, while these past three decades have changed our economy and logistics/transportation through communication technologies and electronics they have not shown as much of an improvement in the actual vehicles we use for transportation. The future is looking bright though as current concepts and prototypes show a new and interesting future in which we might be using magnetic trains traveling hundreds of miles per hour and airships to transport products. These two technologies would address the current issues of sustainability while also increasing payload and reducing delivery time. 
Resources 
Baker, B. (Nov. 21, 2014) Commercial crossover makes Aeroscraft military airship dream come true. Army-Technology. Com. Retrieved from: 
http://www.army-technology.com/features/featurecommercial-crossover-makes-aeroscraft-military-airship-dream-come-true-4429199/ 
Barrie, J. (Apr. 1, 2015) Iron Maiden's Bruce Dickinson has an insanely ambitious plan to bring huge Zeppelins back to the skies. Business Insider. Retrieved from: 
http://www.businessinsider.com/iron-maiden-zeppelins-airlander-10-2015-4 
Le Beau, P (Feb. 25, 2015) Elon Musk's Hyperloop Moves Closer to Becoming Reality. NBC News. Retrieved from: http://www.nbcnews.com/tech/innovation/elon-musks-hyperloop-moves-closer-becoming-reality-n313276 
Mead, D (Feb. 18, 2014) Why New Semi Trucks Are a Win for the Environment. Motherboard. Retrieved from: 
http://motherboard.vice.com/blog/why-new-fuel-economy-standards-for-trucks-is-a-huge-win-for-the-environment 
THE DIRTY TRUTH ABOUT BIG TRUCKS (AND WHY THEY SHOULD BE CLEANED UP) 
Retrieved from: http://www.cleanairtrust.org/trucks.dirtytruth.html 
3 
Running Head: TRANSPORTATION IN BUSINESS 
