Space Research Funding versus Poverty Reduction 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
People often wonder and pose questions to themselves about the events that have led to our existence and also the events that might take place in the cosmic future. Well, that's what cosmology and astrophysics are there for. Space researchers are on a constant mission to find answers to such questions about both our past and our future. But, is the cost associated in satisfying this interest justifiable? This research paper takes into account some of the counter-arguments that might be posed in this topic and shows why they are not justified. It also takes into account statistical figures and tries to comment upon what could be better done with these funds that would prove beneficial for more people. 
Space Research Funding versus Poverty Reduction 
Open a scientific journal and you will get to read at least three to five articles that describe to you some of the most recent and intriguing research taking place in the field of cosmology. Recently, the idea of oxygen being an indicator of life on other planets has been disproven, since it has been shown that the reaction of titanium dioxide with water can produce oxygen, even without the involvement of life (Redd, 2015). Arizona-based World View Enterprises aims to start launching customers to the stratosphere in 2017 beneath giant balloons, for $75,000 per seat (Wall, 2015). Each year, we see satellites, telescopes or rockets being released into the external atmosphere, each with specific tasks assigned to it: ranging from studying stars in the exterior of the solar system to finding exoplanets having atmospheric conditions suitable for sustaining life to studying Mars to find if it ever sustained life. And often, we, the general public, possess an interest to know about these, probably due to the mystical nature of all these findings. 
However, there is a cost attached to everything. "President Obama is proposing an additional $18. 5 billion for NASA, building on the significant investments the administration has made in America's space program over the past six years" (Granath, 2015). People reading this might not find it shocking but they might be in unison on the opinion that such funding in space research should better be directed to combating poverty. 
The figures: 
Over time, the budget of NASA might have reduced to half of a percent of the US federal budget but still the nominal value is a whopping $ 21 billion dollar approximately, as of 2015 (Rogers, 2010). What are these being used for? The answer: research to find Earth-like planets outside the solar system, to investigate the beginning of the Universe, to see if it is possible to sustain life on Mars or on some other planet, to find new details of other heavenly bodies, etc. And it is just up to our imagination when all the funding received by all these agencies around the world is tallied up. But how have these been helpful in improving the living conditions of the poor amongst us? "About 21,000 people die every day of hunger or hunger-related causes, according to the United Nations. This is one person every four seconds" (Poverty.com, n.d.). Wouldn't it have been more beneficial to have these funds get spent on improving the media of transportation of the basic necessities of life to these people? 
Sometimes, these research don't even come to definite conclusions either: for example, Wang, Wang, Tong, and Yuan (2012) discuss the irregularities in the pulse frequencies of the Crab Nebula. Based on experimental results based on such glitches from 2000 - 2010 at the Xinjiang Astronomical Observatory, Wang et al. then discuss the findings and display some statistical analyses done on the empirical values before concluding that the random glitches of the Crab Nebula have no correlation between their strengths and their time lapses. 
Well, in the first place, this research might not even have been required because we, on Earth, have got nothing to do with the Crab Nebula. Had the funding and also the immense amount of time used been spent on studying improving the ways in which the poor receive funding around the world, it might have had lighted smiles on more faces than we could imagine. 
Counter-arguments: 
Some people might argue that space research gives us information which might turn out helpful for us in the future. For example, the Sun, which is now half-way through its life cycle, will become a red giant in around 4 billion years before nearing the end of its life cycle. This particular period of increased activity in the Sun will make life difficult to exist on Earth. At that point of time, such research on how it might be possible to sustain life on other planets using advanced technology will turn out helpful. Such researchers might point out that research taking place about plant biology in space can help us determine natural or genetically modified species that might grow well in space in zero-gravity conditions (Ruyters & Braun, 2014, p. 9). 
Another strong argument made by people associated with space research and astrophysics, including <name> of the Physics Department of Purdue University, is that while funding in space research are spent properly for the intended purposes, funding for humanitarian purposes are often misdirected as a result of the interference of political figures (<name>, personal communication, October 30, 2015). 
While both arguments might be valid, they do not address the present situation of the society. Neither of the arguments does guarantee us that the living conditions of the poor shall be improved in the future, whether on Earth or on some other planet in space, nor does it guarantee us that the corrupt politicians of the present shall not exist in the future. If the corrupt politicians are still in the so-dreamt space future with us, would these supporters of space research think themselves to be successful in having contributed to the society as a whole? 
Rather than think about what might happen with mankind in the next four billion years and spend billions of dollars on research that might finally reward us with no result at the end, what is more important right now is to improve the living conditions of the poor and to help in narrowing the gap of inequality that exists in income levels. Even if that might require the investment of funds specifically for the removal of corrupt leaders, a larger number of people might be contended and happy simply because they are able to live their lives to a greater potential. 
An argument sometimes put forward is that space research is helpful as it helps us trace back our history to the very beginning of time. Research upon unanswered questions such as the events of Big Bang and the existence of dark matter, which has got scientists and researchers all over the world searching for its existence in deep space including Chechin (2014), and also intriguing fields of stars, giants, supernovae, and black holes generate a lot of interest in the public. But on the other hand, what value does such research have that is simply for the sake of gaining interesting information? What comes first: human welfare or personal interests? 
Conclusion: 
Space research might seem interesting but if it takes place at the expense of the sacrifice of the living standards of some of us in the society, then we need to change our mindset. It is not about completely stopping any research taking place in astrophysics but about prioritizing what is supposed to be addressed before what. And in that respect, improving the lives of the several millions of people still living below the poverty line becomes a priority. Having said that, if poverty gets close to being erased, we might have more people in the future taking an interest in space research and its results. 
Reference 
Chechin, L. M. (2014). Recent astronomical results of dark matter searching. Gravitation and Cosmology, 20(4), 240-46. 
Granath, B. (2015, February 2). 'Reach for new heights' -- NASA budget unveiled for fiscal year 2016. In NASA. Retrieved from https://www.nasa.gov/content/reach-for-new-heights-nasa-budget-unveiled-for-fiscal-year-2016 
Launius, R.D. (2003, August). Public opinion polls and perceptions of US human spaceflight. Space Policy, 19(3), 163-75. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0265-9646(03)00039-0 
Poverty.com. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.poverty.com/ 
Redd, N. T. (2015, October 2). Oxygen on exoplanets may not mean alien life. In Space.com. Retrieved from http://www.space.com/30722-oxygen-on-exoplanets-alien-life.html 
Rogers, S. (2010, February 1). NASA budgets: US spending on space travel since 1958 updated. In The Guardian. Retrieved from http://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2010/feb/01/nasa-budgets-us-spending-space-travel 
Ruyters, G., & Braun, M. (2014). Plant biology in space: recent accomplishments and recommendations for future research. Plant Biology, 16, 4-11. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/plb. 12127 
Wall, M. (2015, October 6). World View's balloon-based space tourism to lift off in 2017. In Space.com. Retrieved from http://www.space.com/30750-world-view-space-tourism-balloon-flights.html 
Wang, J., Wang, N., Tong, H., & Yuan, J. (2012). Recent glitches detected in the Crab pulsar. Astrophysics and Space Science, 340(2), 307-15. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10509-012-1058-x 
