Spring Travel Rush: online ticket system 
With the significant increase of people who come back during Spring Travel Rush every year, booking offices are extremely overwhelmed. Many people complained that they could hardly get the tickets, unless they arrived at the ticket booth three hours in advance. Besides, they have to suffer from the bad, cold weather during the long waiting. Fortunately, there was a new policy enacted in 2013, which states that the government will make a network platform, and people can buy tickets online. However, many migrant workers claim that they do not have access to the online booking because of the low economic condition and computer knowledge "New Policies for Spring Travel Rush", 2013, p. 2. On the other hand, in my opinion, I believe that booking tickets online is a much better method. This new way can not only reduce the stress on buying flow, but also prevent some bad guys, such as scalpers, from reselling tickets in an illegal way. 
To begin with, booking tickets online can relieve the burden of buying. In other words, that divides the method of getting tickets into two ways: online shop and real booth, which means that people can have tickets more easily. Now, people do not have to wait outside the booking office in the early, cold morning. The only thing they need to do is clicking their mice and waiting a minute in front of the browser. "We guarantee that almost everyone can get his or her desirable tickets," as an expert said from transportation department <NAME>, personal communication, March 25, 2016. Therefore, it is much more convenient than before. Nevertheless, some migrant workers argued that they do not have chances to book online, because some of them do not even have computers. Consequently, they hold the opinion that this new policy does not provide them with any benefits. In spite of the fact that they seem not to be the direct beneficiaries, they get many benefits. In essence, booking tickets online reduce the total number of people getting tickets from booth. There are still many people, such as college students, having the abilities to book tickets online. That is to say, some portions of the population will change their buying methods, which makes the number of people waiting outside booking halls reduce. Accordingly, although many migrant workers might not have access to the "Online" policy, they still have more opportunities to buy tickets from booths. Obviously, there is no doubt that booking tickets online is beneficial to everybody. 
In addition, cracking down on ticket scalpers efficiently is another advantage of buying tickets online, which is also very helpful to migrant workers. In the early days, there were many scalpers who bought tickets and resold them at a very high expense, which did great harm to passengers Lu, 2015, p. 3. Migrant workers, who have lower economic conditions, are the most serious victims. Although their salaries are lower, they have to spend more money to get the tickets. The reason why they bought tickets from scalpers is that they are often told there are no tickets for today when it is their turns. In contrast, now, people would not need to worry about whether they can get tickets anymore. As for those people who have the abilities to book tickets online, they would only need to reserve the tickets by clicking mouse. In other words, they will never have chances to meet with scalpers. Moreover, as for migrant workers, they can also buy tickets more smoothly and safely because there will not be as many as people waiting outside the booking hall as before. The number of people waiting in line will be reduced dramatically, because many people transfer their buying method from real booths to an online shop. Therefore, the waiting time will also be decreased, which gives migrant workers more opportunities to get their desirable tickets. 
In conclusion, everyone will benefit from this "online ticket" policy. Buying tickets online is a new remarkable way that is very different from the traditional method. However, it does appear to work. This method relieves the buying flow to a great extent, which is very helpful to buyers. People from all walks of life can get tickets more easily and conveniently by choosing their own different methods. Furthermore, this new way also prevent scalpers from reselling tickets to get high, illicit money. People buying tickets online can completely avoid meeting with scalpers. On the other hand, as for people who choose the traditional method, they can wait in less time and have less chances to be bothered with scalpers. 
