Argumentative paper-Final paper 
December 10, 2015 
Argumentative paper- video game effect 
Over half the century, video games have become prevalent among all the ages and races. There is a special type of video game, MMORPG, which usually contents violence and pornographic scenes. However, this type of entertainment will bring several risk factors to our next generation. The virtual world of MMORPG always includes bloody behavior, kills and crime that a normal adolescent never act in society. Although some people think video games can be beneficial to adolescents due to its advantages of improving eye-hand coordination, reducing pressure and fulfilling psychological needs, video games can also bring significant negative effects such as addiction, antisocial and aggressive behavior. Hence, in the rest of paper, I would like to discuss the positive and negative sides of violent video game. 
As many people might think that there are some positive effects of playing video games. The perspective of majority people is that playing video games can be a good way to reduce the stress and depression. Many parents allow their young children to play video games as rewards after daily study. Some people think that playing video games can improve children's eye-brain coordination. They believe that in terms of using what you see in your eyes then coordinating muscles and operating accordingly would improve eye-brain coordination. Others stress that due to video games are directly controlled by the player, adolescents can fulfill their psychological needs, such as satisfaction, feeling of control and fulfillment of self-worth by playing video games. 
Although video game can make player relax while playing, it can also cause poor school performance and inattention. Chan and Rabinowitz (2006) have published a research, which is measured based on 72 ninth and tenth-grade adolescents in high school and 72 parents. Adolescents are asked questions about exercise, grades, work, and school detentions. Parents are asked to complete the Conners' Parent Rating Scale (CPRS) and answer questions about their children's medical conditions. The results prove that adolescents who play more than an hour video games per day are more likely to have poor scholastic performance, and the GPAs are also lower than other who don't play any Internet video games. The consequences of spending too much time playing video games can also lead to adolescents at increased risks for problems in school. Chan and Rabinowitz (2006) have mentioned that adolescents who play video games frequently might increase tendency intense symptoms of ADHD (Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) or inattention. Moreover, based on interviewed with <name>, she stresses that one main reason why video games cause poor school performance is because video game can let heart rate and blood pressure go up. So that children will have trouble with sleeping and concentrating on their study. In a nutshell, playing video games for relaxing is not a wise choice. There are many ways for adolescents to release themselves from daily heavy schoolwork. Such as exercising, playing puzzle, reading a book, which have been shown to have no negative effects. 
Most people think that playing video games can improve adolescent eye-hand coordination, but it will also trigger aggressive behavior and addiction. A forward research has found that comparing 31 video game users and 31 non-users, video game players' eye-hand motor coordination is significantly better than none-users'. (Jerry etal.1983) However, even though video game indeed develops the eye-hand coordination, we can never neglect the negative effect of video games. According to the Wikipedia, the definition of addiction is people who compulsively involve in rewarding stimuli and bring the adverse consequence. For instance, my cousin was addicted in MMORPG, he even could play 36 hours without any rest. Video games addiction lead him to aggression and bullying, low grades and bad school performance. Here is a well-known forward psychology called Bobo Doll experience. Researches make children sit in a single room and let them watch an adult beating up the doll. The reward of research shows that children are modeling what they saw, the majority of children begin to beat up the doll. According to interview with <name>, she mentions that adolescents who addicted in violence media will tend to react more quickly and aggressively. For instance, when others causal bump a student, the type of students who are not playing violent video game doesn't feel angry or intention to bump back. On the other type of students who are addicted in violence video games seems aggressive, some of them bump back immediately. Moreover, if children play media games as a little age, the much younger they are, the bigger influence they might have. Hence, playing video games can make children addict to them and act more aggressively. There is a large number of exercises, such as taking notes, reading or certain activity for improving eye-hand coordination. It is not necessary for people to concern about improving eye-hand coordination. Although it cannot deny that video games indeed improve eye-hand coordination. Dr. James and his colleagues (2007) was found that medical student who playing video games tend to do well on laparoscopic then others who are not. Recently Dr. Jones found that surgeons completed the " warm up" sessions with specific select video games could reduce errors and perform faster in a laparoscopic surgery. Thus, this study proved that video games indeed improve eye-hand coordination. However, considering adolescents who are not mature enough to control their behavior or distinguish the rights and wrongs. Thus, adolescents should better not playing video games during juvenility stage in order to avoid aggressive behavior or other antisocial characteristic. 
Other people think that video games can fill the psychological need in daily lives. Some parents also allow their child to play video games as a reward after study. However, playing video games can cause children unwilling to study. In most cases, when children start playing video games, no matter win or lose during playing, they always want to play it again. If parents don't supervise their children, kids might become irresistible to get addicted to video games. Currently researches have proved the evidence that meeting the psychological needs is a core reason why people are addicted to video games, no matter what ages stage they are. Wan and Chiou (2006) find that one reason of why people are addicted to video games may due to they can fulfill four feelings while playing. The four psychological areas were found as following: "entertainment and leisure", "emotional coping", "excitement and challenge seeking", and "escaping from reality". Those four psychological areas could explain why adolescent enjoy and addict playing video game. For example, if children get a bad score on final exam, they might want to play video game in order to escape from the reality. While they are playing more and more, the tendency of addiction will go up. Thus, the best way to avoid adolescent become addicted to video games is to supervise while they playing. Parent show be aware of which type of video game child play as well. 
	In conclusion, all the three positive opinions that majority people hold towards video games are not as right as they thought before. The first viewpoint that people think is that playing video games is a good way to help adolescent relieve stress. Although we cannot deny that video game indeed reduce pressure, the research published by Chan and Rabinowitz (2006) emphasize that playing video games for a long period can lead to ADHD (Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) and poor school performance. Other people put forwards that playing video games is a good way to improve eye-hand coordination. However, according to Bobo doll study, video games would increase the tendency for adolescents to act aggressively. <name> in the interview mentions that the younger adolescent exposure in video games or other media, the bigger impact in personality can be found when they grow up. Although Dr. James and his colleagues (2007) proved that video game could improve eye-hand coordination, due to the fact that adolescents are not mature enough to recognize rights and wrongs and built a complete personality, adolescents should not play video games. Besides, some adolescents think that playing video games is able to fulfill the psychological needs in daily lives. However, one core reason why people addicted to video games is because video game can fulfill people's psychological needs. Overall, comparing with positive effect and negative effect, the negative effect that video games can bring to adolescents' daily lives are much stronger and irreversible. 
Reference: 
Chan, P. A., & Rabinowitz, T. (2006). A cross-sectional analysis of video games and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder symptoms in adolescents. Annals of General Psychiatry, 5(16), 1-10. 
Griffith, J. L., & Voloschin, P., & Gibb, G. D., & Bailey, J. R. (1983). Differences in eye-hand motor coordination of video-game users and non-users. Perceptual and motor skills, 57(1), 155-158. 
James C. R., & Paul J. L., & Laurie C., & Douglas A., & Jonathan K., & Ronald M., (2007). The Impact of Video Games on Training Surgeons in the 21st Century, Archives of surgery, 142(2),181-186. 
Wan, C.S., and Chiou, W.B. (2006). Psychological motives and online games addiction: a test of flow theory and humanistic needs theory for Taiwanese adolescents. Cyber Psychology & Behavior 9:317-324 
