The Argumentative Paper for New Korean education 
	As a student who went through the whole educational curriculums in Korea, i always have thought that there are better ways they can be improved. There are lots of students, teacher, and parents who think Korean education needs a revolution. However, some people have different ideas. They are skeptical of the changes of educational curriculums. According to them, maintaining current system is the best way for the whole Korea. Maybe nobody have answers. Everybody have their own idea about the Korean education and they have their right to express their ideas. At this point of time, Korean government announced the newly changing curriculums. There was a sharp division of opinions between those who approve and disapprove. 
	Public education of Korea is losing its role as a education. It limits students' s academic leeway, parents no longer rely on the curriculum, and even people working on the field say that Public education of Korea is a total waste of time and money. More and more students try to go outside of country to find their ways to success. Korean public education is only focused on studies of traditional subjects, such as physics and history. We never experience lab-classes and just sit at the desk all day. Students mostly rely on private education and this phenomena make poor students get left behind. Many students are now studying in other countries and even though Korea has lower population, the number of Korea students who are studying in different countries ranked third all over the world Jang, 2015. To improve this situation, Korean public education should be more practical and help students to prepare actual fields. Therefore, it can satisfy both people in industry and students. Also, it should be more competent enough to compete against the public education, so that we can make schools can help poor students who want to study and never force them get left behind. Every students have their own rights to study and Korean government rightly do those duties. Education should do its role as a guidance of students' s dreams, not a pretensions of wealth. 
	On the other hand, some people are skeptical of the newly changing curriculum. Basically, what they are suggesting is that since current curriculum has lasted more than 20 years, it will cause a huge chaos to many people. According to interview with my mom, private education industry is taking around 1.5% of GDP and lots of people is working as tutors in this field M. <name>, personal communication, November 1, 2015. People say that if the curriculum change, those who are working on that field might lose their jobs. Also, some professors in science and engineering majors strongly insist that if the curriculum change, students who are trying to major in Science and engineering will decrease seriously. Since, science and engineering major is challenging compared to other major, they expect nobody would like to go to this major. Additionally, they expect that their specialty can be decreased, if the curriculum changes Choi, 2015. However, I think those suggestions are very selfish. There are lots of students who want to study but they can't because they don't have enough money. If the economic scale of private education industry keep grow big like now, social problems would prevalent because of the gaps between the poor and rich. Also, there are lots of students who have complaints of current Science and Engineering tracks. They say those tracks have seriously narrow and limited access to the field, so improvement is necessary. I expect also, that there would be serious chaos to whole society if we bring change to the new curriculum. However, we should go through those procedure to bring better way to educate students which ultimately make our country better place. 
	To sum up, I know change is not always welcomed. Some people might welcome it, but some might not. What we need to think here is this case is different. Education in Korea can seriously affect the overall society. If we give poor students to be competent, he can be big help to our society. If we make our curriculum more flexible and practical, it can be a pillar factor of the country. We should never forget that with the rotten education, one, people, and the society can never have a chance to develop themselves. I hope people in Korea be more wise and prudent this time. 
Jang.B.2015. Students in different countries. LA Joongang Ilbo. 
Retrived from http://www.koreadaily.com/news/read.asp?art_id=3834468 
Choi.J.2015. Disapproval of changing curriculum. Hankyung Ilbo. Retrived from http://www.hankyung.com/news/app/newsview.php?aid=2015091854611 
