P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 25, 2015 
Drinking Age 
	Unlike United States, Korea's drinking age is 18; therefore, many people start drinking at young age. Since many people can experience drinking culture at young age, there are some bad sides such as alcohol related incidents. Every year similar incident happens; college freshman died because he or she drank too much alcohol because upper classmates forced. Since this incident happens every year when the school starts, many people suggested government to change the legal drinking age. However, the drinking age should be remained the same because it will bring chaos if the government make a sudden change. 
	Since it is taking away people's privilege or rights, people will oppose it and refuse to follow the law. Even though the legal drinking age is 18, many younger people are trying to get alcohol illegally; this applies to every country because underage drinking can be found in any country. Therefore, raising the legal age would not prevent the underage drinking. Also, many college freshmen who just graduated high school drink the most because they are just released from hard studying and the stresses. Most high school graduate students release their stress by doing what they could not do during the high school year. Also, drinking is a big part of college life; in the beginning of the school year, many college students (especially freshmen) go to Membership Training or Orientation Training for two days, during that days they drink and play games. Instead of rising the drinking age and banning college students from drinking, the government should make the school to regulate those college events. If the government rises the drinking age, many people will have opposed feelings toward the government. 
	Even though it will be convenient to remain the drinking age the same, the drinking problems are becoming serious and getting bigger, so many people are raising their voice to make the drinking age higher. Nowadays people are concerning the college drinking culture because many drinking incidents are happening to college students. They think that higher drinking age will stop the college students from drinking alcohol and prevent alcohol related incidents in the beginning of the school year. However, making the drinking age higher would not solve the alcohol related problems because even in countries with high legal age like United States, there are many underage drinking problems and high legal age could not stop the problems. Instead of trying to solve the problem by rising the drinking age higher, the college should inform the students about the drinking alcohol. 
	In conclusion, Korea should not change the legal drinking age; rather than changing the drinking age, they should come up with new remedy to prevent the drinking related problems. If the government takes away the people's rights and privilege, the citizens will have opposed feelings toward the government. Also, lower drinking age will allow people to experience the drinking culture at the younger age and it will help them to get use to the drinking culture when they start working. However, the school and the community should make sure that all the students are educated about alcohol and know how to drink safely without passing their limits. Since drinking is a big part of Korean culture, it would be really different if the government makes the drinking age higher like United States. 
THE ARGUMENTATIVE ESSAY 	 2 
