12/3/2015 
Argumentative essay 
Draft #3 
Work Experience Helps People Success in Graduate School 
One of the biggest choices college students must make is to go to graduate school or to work after graduating. Some think that bachelor degree is more than enough and decide to make money after graduation. Others would like to continue further studying and go to graduate school. There's a tradition that people prefer to go to college and graduate school in a row, without any gap years. However, after my research, I believe that people who work for a few years and then go back to graduate school are more successful than those who go to graduate school right after graduating from college. 
First, the practical working experience make it easier for people to understand the theoretical knowledge in school. When learning simply from textbook, people cannot realize the problems in practical. For instance, every engineering student has to build mathematical models. It is not hard for engineers to do the math and calculate the result. However, when it comes to apply the model to real world, all kinds of problems will appear such as machine errors, short of time and budget. With previous working experience, engineers are able to build models that are more suitable for practice. Since they've already faced kinds of difficulties in work, they are aware of making the model more efficiently. According to the article "Learning from tacit knowledge: the impact of the internship" by Teresa Wasonga and John Murphy, students who attend internship will behave better when they return to school. The article shows that work experience can help people to obtain better learning skills, which will benifit them in school work. 
Secondly, people can acquire leadership skills and communication skills during work, which are vital for people to achieve future success. In society nowadays, knowledge is not the most valuable treasure. Being able to lead a project and work with a team is key to success. On my first engineering class, the professor addressed that teamwork is the most important ability to engineers, even though engineering sounded like a job with math and machines rather than people. Again, every job requires people skills, which can be learned by working instead of schoolwork. 
Lastly, working in related field of major can point people to the right ways of their careers. There are tons of people changing jobs every day. With major related working experience, people can decide if they are passionate about this career. During my interview with <name>, <position> in Purdue University, she told me an example of a biological engineer named <name>. She worked for a company after college, and found her passion about a specific field in biology through work. She chose to go back to graduate school to do further researches and was successful academically. What <name> told me supports my thesis that if people go to graduate school right after graduating from college, it may take them longer to realize what they are really interested in. 
However, for some majors such as sciences and literature, some think that it's better to attend graduate school right after graduating from college. Most of their focuses in these majors are research, not working. Going to graduate school would give them the continuous of research. Moreover, for those who are in science majors, undergraduate education is not enough for them to apply their knowledge in working field. They need further study in graduate school instead of working experiences. 
Although students who major in science and literature don't need working background for further study in graduate school, business and engineering students are highly recommended to have some working experiences prior to applying for graduate school. According to the article by Ainin Sulaimana and Suhana Mohezara "Student Success Factors: Identifying Key Predictors," nearly 100% students from top schools such as Harvard Business School and University of Pennsylvania's Wharton Business School have work experience before being admitted into graduate school. Although working background is not an admission requirement, schools tend to admit students with previous skills in work field. Moreover, for those who are in science major, working experience provides a good chance to enhance teamwork skills, which are very helpful for doing projects in school. Even for doing research, almost every lab needs several people as a team to finish. Working out there in the field can enhance people's teamwork abilities as much as possible, since they'll be working with colleagues of various ages all the time. So, working is helpful for those who want to do research in the future. 
In conclusion, though situations may vary for different people, I believe that working experience help people success in graduate school. After working in the field, people can obtain better understanding in theoretical knowledge, leadership skills, and determination of career paths. Working for years and go back to graduate school is a better option to achieve academic success. 
Work cited 
Wasonga, AT, Murphy JF, (2006). Learning from tacit knowledge: the impact of the internship, International Journal of Educational Management, Vol. 20 Iss: 2, pp. 153 - 163 
Sulaimana, Ainin, Mohezara, Suhana (2006). Student Success Factors: Identifying Key Predictors, Journal of Education for Business Volume 81, Issue 6, 2006, DOI: 10.3200/JOEB.81.6.328-333 
