P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 10, 2015. 
India's Modernity - A Question. 
According to Angus Maddison, by 1922, the British held sway over 458 million people, hence bringing modernity to about one-fifth of the world's population during that time. A lot of debate and discussion has gone over whether the British rule in India did actually lead to it's modernization and this question, which is very broad, can be interpreted in many ways and hence can have different answers based on these interpretations. Modernity can be defined as the enlightenment of ideas such as fraternity, liberty and education. The British rule in India did not only pass along these ideas of modernity to India but also brought about various reforms and infrastructural developments, hence being a catalyst in modernizing the country. 
One of the primary questions that I chose to answer was whether the British Raj in India led to the abolishment of 'Sati,' a ritual in India where widows burned themselves on top of their husband's cremation pyres. There are various arguments regarding the extent of British role in doing so. In her book, Contentious Traditions: The Debate on Sati in Colonial India (1987), Lata Mani talks in great detail about the debate regarding the practice of 'Sati'. The people who were in support of Sati, who generally consisted of the Brahmins and Pundits, gave religious reasons for not abolishing Sati. They stated that there were scriptural sanctions for Sati. On the contrary, the anti-supporters of Sati said that the practice was mentioned in a different manner. They were of the belief that the Pundits and the women's family coerced the women to perform Sati for their own material gains. The British then banned Sati in 1829. 
Mani states that it was actually the colonial officials who started the debate by using their own legislation to prove that 'Sati' violates human rights. However, Ms. Chakraborty says that British only helped because a section of Indians were also actively campaigning against the removal of Sati. She primarily states that it was largely because of the initial efforts of Ram Mohan Roy and his group, 'Brahmo Samaj,' that the British used the legislation to prohibit Sati. However, we can also pose an argument to this fact. In their book A Concise History of Modern India: Third Edition (2012), Barbara and Thomas Metcalf have written that Ram Mohan Roy was educated in the western style education and was adept in English. Roy was also the leader of the Brahmo Samaj. So, we can say that Ram Mohan Roy only raised his voice because he was educated in the Western style education, which indirectly states that it was the British who were responsible for the abolishment of Sati. I feel that no amount of articles in newspapers or protests could have been enough to officially ban Sati unless the British interfered. 
In her interview, Ms. Chakraborty said that 'Modernity came to India because of the British rule.' Modernization is not only limited to reforms. The British also brought along with them new kinds of transportation and technology, which the Indians were unaware of. They introduced the concept of railways and also introduced new techniques of irrigation in India. Apart from this, they invested heavily in telegraphy, roads and ports as well. 
Even though what the British did was only for their own personal gains of colonization and never for the well being of the Indians, I feel that the British should receive their due credit for bringing modernization to India. As Ms. Chakraborty said, Modernity can be defined as the enlightenment of ideas such as fraternity, liberty and education. So, by aiding in abolishing the practice of 'Sati,' the British liberated and freed the women of a ritual imposed on them. They also brought about a degree of education in India by providing a western style education to the people. The idea of modernity however is open to one's interpretation and their way of thinking. 
