Argumentative Essay 
11/18/2015 
Draft #3 
"Human"-eostasis? 
As people grow up, problems come up and evolve into a harder problem. The need of love, financial, caring, family, jobs, foods, and health wellness are the most common problems encountered by human beings around the globe. Overcoming those problems will give us the pride moment of ourselves. However, it does not matter if by achieving those we do not put our mind in a state of a peaceful mind what scientifically called homeostasis. So is a state of so called homeostasis is a treasure for human? I personally believe that the involvement of homeostasis in people's life is very significant because it enables the great atmospheric in their minds which bring them to peace in mind. Although there are a lot of positive sides of being homeostasis, there are some few conditions that may worsen if a person is always at the state of peace without knowing the fun problem that they may encounter to enhance their experience of life in the real world. For my paper, I will be arguing more about how being homeostasis is a benefit for people and the world as a bigger picture. After several researches and exploration on the web and interview with a connoisseur of the subject discussed, I've proven partially right that homeostasis is a real big of a deal for the human existence. 
To begin with, homeostasis is a big need to be in fit to do anything such as work, school work, making friends, and make a good judgement in life decision making problems. I had a lot of problems regarding school work that I could not done it because my mind is not in a peaceful and focus condition. Being in a peaceful condition may bring more than focus. At that time in high school, I was doing some mathematical homeworks which was due for the day after the class, but at that day I got a lot stuff coming up, such as bad grades, organizational problems and assignments, which made my mind to be relatively unstable and stressed at that time making my state mind scattered. Even though I could not do the homework, I stayed up until late trying to answer the mathematical problems. At that moment I did not understand that it was not an effective work, I could just do it the day after before the hour paper due. I was not in a great shape condition for my mind and my body. Due to the condition, I made a bad decision and I could not work it through the problems. I put myself in a black hole that kept me in a cage with a dark thought of myself in this moment. I was carried out by the state of my mind in a bad way. My feeling and my state of mind were not in a good fit; therefore, it led me into negative thoughts throughout my entire head and speaking for themselves. I can see that from my experience there, I lose my good judgement because of not being homeostasis at that time. 
As important as homeostasis helps you to have a good judgement in work and stuff, it also affects the human body itself. The article "Peace of mind as an important aspect of old people's health" by Anne Nystrom RNT, Cand. Phil. and Kerstin Andersson-Segersten RN, Ph D shows that it correlates peace of mind with the human body health. The article deepens the thought that homeostasis is one important thing for old people's health. The article illustrates some interview with men and women for the age over 60. The article tells that the interviewees' descriptions of health were arranged as a concept model, divided into 3 hierarchical level. The first level is the possibility of living a fairly comfortable life. The second level is the concern of self-esteem. And the third one is the most important and crucial thing which described the existence or non-existence of a mental state of mind defined as peace of mind. I believe that it proves that peace of mind is really the concern mostly for the old people age over 60, and nursing support is really needed for them. And yet it does not close the slight chance that lack of homeostasis can also harm young people's health. 
In addition to health problem stated above, Mental illness could happened if the person does not put his or her mind in a homeostasis state. To understand this subject better I interviewed with the person which I can call a connoisseur for the knowledge of being homeostasis, <name>. She is majoring on Psychology with a concentration in pre-med as a junior undergraduate student at <place>. She explicitly explained that it would be healthier for a person to be in a homeostasis state of mind because someone with a peace of mind would be absent of mental illness, anxiety or anything else that could cause them problems living life. I believe that life would be easier for a person to life if their mind is in the state of peace and they would not have the problems someone with mental illness might have. Sadly, Becky had experienced a life with homeostasis problem, she has been struggling with anxiety for a long time. And she knows that if she did not have it, she would be healthier mental wise and that would probably lead her to be a healthier person. From her past experience, she explicitly depicted the stress and the disadvantages of incapable of being homeostasis to me. It brings me to a conclusion to my mind that "yes" that health problem is depending on how peace our mind is. 
On the other hand, there are some people who believe that being homeostasis in length of time would affect badly the characteristics of a person. Some people stated that characteristics changes may conclude a homogeneous humanity which means that people turn to be the same making the uniqueness disappear. 
How peaceful our mind is also based on our emotion and, in reciprocity, homeostasis affects our emotion in life. I see a lot of people feeling happy or sometime sad or maybe undecided for some common things. This happened because they do not put their minds in a state that gives your mind a space to take a break and reboot. Every person and things in the world need to take a minute or sometimes a day off. Melanie Klein said "One way in which contentment at a later stage in life can therefore be found is to enjoy vicariously the pleasure of young people,." (1). Saying that happiness, fun, and even satisfactory elements help younger people by peace of mind. It simply state that one of the result of peace of mind is joy for a simple example and explanation. 
As a bigger picture, imagine what could have happen to the world if everyone is capable to put peace of mind or homeostasis as part of their life. A peaceful world with wonderful aspects of life that give a great environment to live and to endeavors the treasure of life. 
In conclusion, I believe that homeostasis is a treasure for every human being which could help us, enhance us, and giving us great glitches of life. People are all too busy to notice how important such small element of life like peace of mind could affect the whole life of a person and his or her environment. Therefore, now we are all in a treasure hunt to find one of life greatest treasures, homeostasis. 
