The Social Impact of Documentary Films 
Purdue University 
The social impact of documentary films 
Throughout the history, different societies, nations and civilizations strived for change that has improved the quality of life and standards of living, change that has improved the meanings and definitions of equality and human rights, which we humans all share. And throughout the history, activists relied on different tools and means to carry out the change they wanted to happen. Some were effective and some were not. 
This paper will examine a very effective tool for social change in the modern history, Documentary films, and the influence they have on creating real change in societies. And through this discussion, three parts will be presented to understand the position that this research is taking and why. The first part will discuss an example of how documentary films can play a big role in decision making in big corporations, in favor of consumers, that otherwise would be difficult to influence. The second part will discuss why documentaries are more powerful than fictional films in terms of making change. And the third part will discuss the implementation of the artistic and the cinematic tools in modern documentary films, and how can that tell stories in an even more powerful and appealing way. 
The power of Super-Size Me (2004) 
	In 2004 Morgan Spurlock, a well-known filmmaker, directed the famous documentary Super-Size Me. In this film, Spurlock examined the influence of the fast food industry, and he explored the consequences on his own health of diet based on only Mc Donald's food for 30 days. The results were terrifying, Spurlock gained 24lb, his cholesterol level increased drastically, and started suffering from psychological and physical problems such as his sexual ability. 
These results were terrifying to the audience who watched the film, and therefor terrifying to Mc Donald's as a business. Knowing that this film could sharply affect their image and sales, Mc Donald's soon started making huge changes to their menu ranging from eliminating the Super Size options to adding more healthy choices that included salads and fresh greens. 
Mc Donald's claimed that the film had nothing to do with the changes they made to their menu, and to the introduction of healthier options "The timing between the release of their "Go Active" campaign and the release of the movie is clearly related. Mc Donald's knew that the movie would have adverse affects on their image so in order to lessen the blow; they preemptively made the changes to their menu." (Carpenter, 2004) 
Despite the denial by Mc Donald's that the film, and the campaign accompanied it after its release had forced the corporation to reconstruct its image, the synchronization of the company's new policies and the release of the film was a clear evidence of Spurlock's Super-Size Me influence not only on the fast food chain, but also on the millions of people who watched it. That influence came more effective in the documentary style that tells real stories and involves real lives. And this leads to the second part of the argument. 
Documentary Vs. Fictional films 
	Researchers La Marre and Landreville of Ohio State University conducted an experiment where they viewed two films that talked about the same topic, but was approached in two different styles. The researchers wanted to measure the perception and learning among the university's students who watched Hotel Rwanda (2004), a featured fictional film, and the documentary Triumph of Evil (1999). The topic of the two films was the Rwandan genocide. In their experiment, La Marre and Landreville found that students learned more about the genocide, and showed more emotional engagement with the documentary version than the fictional one. (C. Nisbet & Aufderheide 2009) 
But there's another side in the film industry that believes that fictional could have the potential to be more powerful in terms of reaching wider audience for many reasons. Professor Bobby Chastain of Purdue University's film and video studies department suggested that fictional films can have a greater influence on the bases that they reach more viewers, and therefor can create more powerful impact. Professor Chastain (2016) said: "You have a documentary film and a fictional film that talk about the same issue, but the fictional film has Matt Damon in it, which one do you think will attract more viewers?" Matt Damon is a superstar, well known American actor whose movies attract millions of viewers. 
Chastain compared two films that talked about Fracking industry. The first one is the documentary Gas Land (2010) and the second one is the fictional Promise Land (2012). Chastain pointed that Promise Land had Matt Damon starring as the main character, and that would attract more people to watch the film than the documentary would. But the question is; what if the documentary and the fictional were viewed by the same amount of people? Which one would be more effective in creating a real impact? And the answer, as the last experiment showed, is documentary. 
The artistic side of Documentary films 
The necessity for immediacy of the content to most of the documentary films produced in the past made it acceptable to have cheap look that lacked an artistic vision. Many films were shot on a hurry on the basis of first-responders and for that reason, filmmakers needed lightweight, easy to move around equipment to capture what could be a one-time event. That trade made it definitely harder for filmmakers to create artistic images that would add to the content of a film, and therefor viewer would only remember images powerful, moving events that were not presented the way a filmmaker would want. But today with the fast and amazing advancement of the technology, high quality filming equipment became more affordable and amore mobile. This advancement has transformed documentary filmmaking from only a journalistic, investigative tool to a form of art itself. And as an art, filmmakers are able not only to tell powerful and influential stories, but also to implement their own artistic vision (E Jones, 2011). But a debate started that the implementation of the filmmakers' vision in telling real stories makes them a less reliable source of investigation. And with the directors and producers interfering in the way a story told, that would only create a biased, one-sided story that is being told from the filmmakers' point of view. However, this argument ignores the fact that films are statements on specific events, made to target a specific audience in order to make a specific change. And the implementation of the artistic tools in documentaries has often served making stories more powerful and effective in terms of making social change. Waltz with Bashir (2008) is a great example of how documentary filmmakers employed their own visions to create artistic, influential stories. The film was produced, directed and starred by Ari Folman, an Israeli filmmaker who pioneered in his unique production of Waltz with Bashir (2008). The film talks about the famous Sabra and Shatilla Massacre that happened in Lebanon in 1982, where the Christian Phalanges militia killed over 1000 Palestinian refugees under the Israeli army's eyes. The film was unique in the way Folman chose to make it, which was an animation documentary. 
"The film is structured like a conventional documentary, with Folman visiting old army friends and piecing together what they saw and remember. The freedom of animation allows him to visualize what they tell him -- even their nightmares." (Ebert, 2009) 
Conclusion 
	Although some still think that documentary films have only as much influence on societies and decision makers as fictional films have, it is clear now that that argument is not accurate. And as this research showed, documentary film can be a great tool for change not only in America, but around the globe too. An Inconvenient Truth (2006) is a great example of how a documentary film can make real change in the world. With its effective presentation of the issue of global warming and what needs to be done. The film helped raise public awareness of global warming around the world, and was a great success and a role model for other filmmakers who want to make a real change. 
As technology advances quickly, great tools become available for those who have a cause in life and care about everything that makes us human. And as it is easier now for filmmakers to shed light on almost every important issue in our lives, documentary will not only become one of the most influential tools of change, they will also become the gate-keeper for protecting human rights and limiting the ultimate power that corporations and governments have over humanity. 
