Social Media 
Introduction 
	In this information era, information technology has changed people's life. Social media is one example of a technology that has changed the way people communicate. 
For example, Facebook and Twitter have become popular social media software that have changed everyday communication. It is also rather amazing to see how email has replaced letter writing as one of the most common and formal ways that people communicate. After that, the cellphone and instant messenger software came out. And we can see most people take a cellphone with their daily life. But the social media is a whole new area. Because they cannot only be used as email or instant messenger software, but more than that. You can also use it as a newspaper, a blog, or even an advertising platform. That is why the social media technology are is closely linked to daily life in many ways. And it's worth to find out the impact of social on people's life. Because teenagers and college students are the main groups of people who use social media. It's good to start this research by analyze the impact of social media on these people. And education and family are two main parts of their daily life. Therefore, the research questions of this paper are as follows are what is essential differences between the social media and other traditional means of social communication like face-to face talk? How social medial changed young people's life in higher education and family relationships. 
Social media and education 
In the interview, I asked my TA of computer science class, have he ever use social media communicate with his student in teaching progress. He answered me due to rules of computer science department, to avoid personal information or test answer leakage, it is forbidden for them to use their personal social media like Facebook or Twitter in the teaching progress. However, computer department has its own social medial web page which called Piazza. In this page, the instructor, TA and students can discuss study question with each other. Student can post a question on the web page, and not only the instructor, but all the other student can fellow the question and are encouraged to discuss. It is worth to mention that, in the article Mobile computing devices in higher education: Student perspectives on learning with cellphones, smartphones & social media, the author also stated that the mobile dives and social medial allow student interaction with content and also help them study regardless of location (Joanne, & Michael, 2013, p. 21). In addition, they all mentioned that the social medial can also detract the students' attention at some level. All these data show me that how well the social media technology can be used in higher education. Obviously, the social media is a great tools and give us a new way of communication in teaching progress. But student should it appropriately, because it may distracting them sometimes. 
Social media and adult-youth relationship 
As my TA are also an international student, I also asked him have he ever use social media communicate with his parents. As I expected, his answer is yes. He said that in the past, the only way he can communicate with parents is by phone call. But today, he can use social media, not only he can send text, picture or video online, but more important, his parents can get his information in real time by check his status update on social media which allow them keep track on his daily life. And his also check his parents' status and this one give a close relationship with his parents. In the article Mentoring in the digital age: Social media use in adult-youth relationships (Sarah, et al., 2014, p. 31), the author made a analysis in use of social media in the relationships between teenager and adult. The results showed that the impact of digital media use in mentoring relationship was generally perceived to be neutral or positive. And the researchers pointed out in particular that the use of social media "does not seem to detract from the closeness and quality of face-to-face mentoring relationships, but may actually supplement and strengthen them." (Sarah, et al., 2014, p. 31). Therefore, all these data showed us the social media can be used as a great tools in adult-youth relationship and can mutual promote the traditional ways of adult-youth communication. 
Conclusion 
In general, by analyzing the data from interview and articles, there is reason to believe that the social media helped young people live better in many areas such as higher education and family relationships. But the data also showed us, it will have some problems if teenager don't use social media improperly. However, like all the advanced technology, the technology itself is good. What impact it may have is depends on how people use it. As the result by analyzing the data, the social media have more chance to make people's life better instead of causing problem. 
Gikas, J., & Grant, M. M. (2013). Mobile computing devices in higher education: Student perspectives on learning with cellphones, smartphones & social media. The Internet and Higher Education, 19, 18-26. 
Schwartz, Sarah, E. O., Rhodes, J. E., Liang, B., S nchezc, B., Spencerd, R., Kremere, S., & Kanchewaf, S. (Forthcoming). Mentoring in the digital age: Social media use in adult-youth relationships. Children and Youth Services Review. 
Social Medial 
3 
