Assignment #5 - Argumentative Essay - Draft #1 
April 10, 2016 
The Positive Effect of School Uniforms on an Educational Environment 
What will you wear for school today? A question you will likely ask yourself if you are still attending school. Usually, if you are a picky person like me, this is a problem. However, if you are attending a school that requires you to wear a uniform, then this problem has been solved and all the miserable time you will spend preparing an outfit for tomorrow morning in over. School uniforms are a great debate. Many people believe they are a disadvantage. In this paper, I will illustrate otherwise. I believe that school uniforms are an important factor behind building and equal educational environment. Because school uniforms help promote discipline, achieve academic success, embrace loyalty and sense of community. 
To begin with how school can make schools better, School uniforms can promote discipline by reducing formation gang formation, peer pressure, and bullying. This was brought up in the article "Do Uniforms Make Schools Better?" by Marian Wilde. Although Wilde's article only gives an overview of the school uniform debate, it also serves our purposes by suggesting how school uniforms have the potential to reduce gangs formation on campus and peer pressure. She provides us with a valuable presidential point of view, stating that " President Clinton provided momentum to the school uniform movement when he said in his 1996 State of the Union speech, "If it means teenagers will stop killing each other over designer jackets, then our public schools should be able to require their students to wear school uniforms.""(2008). This quote targets two things about discipline; teenagers influencing each other over designer jackets, and fighting about it. Which means that non-school uniforms create an unhealthy surrounding, where young adults compare their peer's fortune, pressure their friends over appearance inducing superficiality. Leading those young individuals to form groups and bully each other. And according the president Clinton, uniforms are the solution. 
Second, School uniforms help students achieve academic success. Now that we have already argued earlier that school uniforms keeps students attention from worrying about appearance, then it is only natural to assume that their attention is now concentrated over academics. And in fact, this is the case. According to Ann Bodine's article, " Schools, Academic Achievement, and Uses of Research", there are statistically significant evidence that school uniforms produce academically successful students. In Bodine's paper, she corrects the results of a previous paper that suggested that school uniforms have no effect over academic achievement. This correction is important and worthy to mention because the previous paper was cited by many advocates that used it as a support for abolishing school uniforms. 
Third, School uniforms build loyalty and a since of community. Acknowledging that uniforms help reduce fighting in schools, do they aid in "spreading the love"? Well, maybe. To answer this question, I went to <place> , The number one elementary school in <place> . There I have interviewed <name> , a general elementary education teacher. I asked <name> if she believes that school uniforms aid in feeling loyal sincere to the school. She replied to my question by referring to her high school, as she went to a uniform school. <name> said that at her high school they had great school spirit in many athletic events. She mentioned proudly that her school had the loudest crowds. However, she says that what was behind their school spirit was being a small school more then being required to wear uniforms. Which could be a valid point, however, I believe otherwise because of my own experience. Since I was in a uniform school. I represented my school in many nationwide science fair competitions. It was a great honor, because I made my school and my parents proud of me. But most importantly I was, and still am, proud of my school and myself. Wearing my uniform and representing my school among many other schools at such occasions, made me feel proud of where I came from. This has influenced my personality, because it has gave me the feeling of responsibility towards delivering an image. By wearing my uniform, I am not only representing myself, but a community. And this I shared with Mrs. Witeaker too, she responded by suggesting that if schools in her town had different uniforms, like how it was in my situation, then this would be true. 
Opponents to my argument might argue that school uniforms prevent student's form having their individualism. Such as Judy Park, in her article "Do School Uniforms Produce Uniform Minds?: School Uniforms and Appearance Restrictions in Korean Middle Schools and High Schools". Park claims that elementary school children in Korea are more creative than high school students because they are not required to wear uniforms, where as, high school students are. However, park is forgetting that she is comparing children to teenagers that are in adolescence. Her claim could be just a natural affect of the changes these teenagers experienced. And as suggest by <name> , after I asked her about her comments on this argument, students in uniform schools still could show their individualism by shoes or make up. 
To conclude, school uniforms has a great positive affect on producing an exceptional educational environment that teaches students about being humble, good to others, loyal, cooperative and most importantly lead to academic success. 
Work Cited: 
Bodine, Ann. "School Uniforms, Academic Achievement, And Uses Of Research." Journal Of Educational Research 97. 2 (2003): 67-71. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Mar. 2016. 
Park, Judy. "Do School Uniforms Lead To Uniform Minds?: School Uniforms And Appearance Restrictions In Korean Middle Schools And High Schools." Fashion Theory: The Journal Of Dress, Body & Culture 17. 2 (2013): 159-177. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Mar. 2016. 
Whiteaker, C., Personal Interview. (March, 23, 2016). 
Wilde, Marian. Do uniforms make schools better?. Great Schools. 2008. Web. 28 Feb. 2016. 
2 
