December 4, 2015 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse among the Youth 
Draft #3 
Impacts of Drug and Alcohol Abuse among Teenagers 
Since last three decades, drug and alcohol abuse among teenagers has skyrocketed. This has completely changed the way teenagers interact with each other and their family members. The important question is that are these changes good? Few believe that the changes are good or not harmful. Whereas, others believe otherwise. I, personally, believe that they are not good, especially because of the psychological effects it has on them and the influence it has on their friends and family members, and also because of how commonplace it has become. According to a survey conducted in 2014, nine percent of eighth graders, twenty three percent of tenth graders, thirty seven percent of twelfth graders reported past-month consumption of alcohol, and around one in four teenagers have used illicit drugs sometime in their lives. Also, according to another survey, around one-half of all teenagers feel that underage drinking is acceptable. After doing a lot of research on the internet and having an interview with an expert in this topic, I have realized that the impacts of drug and alcohol abuse among teenagers are not positive. 
There are numerous reasons to why teenagers engage in drugs and alcohol (as I have talked about in my previous papers). However, I believe that the main reasons are popular culture and peer pressure. After watching that their friends and family members drink, teenagers feel an urge to try a sip of alcohol, or in a party with their friends they might be pressured to have drugs or consume alcohol. They may not think that this is a huge deal; they may think it is cool, or it is something independent people do, or it is not harmful as people say it is. However, the reality cannot be any further away from the truth. Drug and alcohol abuse does have negative impact on them. According to Hawkins, Catalano, and Miller (1992) declining grades, absenteeism from school and other activities, increased potential for dropping out, and other school-related problems are associated with adolescent substance abuse. Furthermore, in my research interview with Dr. <name>, <position>, she talked about one study that concluded that the earlier you start drinking, the more likely you are to have an alcohol use disorder or addiction in your lifetime. She further stated that during the teenage years, the brain is still maturing and alcohol interferes with the brain. So, by engaging in alcohol, teenagers are physically changing their brains during its time of maturation and learning new stimuli and everything in the environment, and this further puts them at risk of alcohol dependence. Also, I have talked in my previous paper that teenagers who engage in drugs and alcohol are more likely to get into trouble with the law or get into road accidents, which is one of the leading preventable causes of death in the world. 
To further my point, I would like to give an example of my friend. About a few years ago, one of my friends got into bad company and indulged in drugs and got addicted to it, and he had a very rough time becoming sober again. It was not just he, but it was his entire family who had a rough time. He was in rehab for about more than four months. And because of this, he had to repeat his ninth grade as he then had below pre-requisite attendance and had missed a lot of classes for him to possibly catch up with the school curriculum. Thankfully, after everything that happened he recovered and is sober again. But no one can deny the fact that he and his family had gone through a lot of hardship because of all that happened. 
On the other hand, many people believe that alcohol and drug abuse, especially alcohol abuse, is not very harmful or not harmful at all. A huge percentage of people with who believe this are uneducated about the effects of alcohol and drugs on the human body. However, there are quite a few people who are well educated and give a rational explanations for their belief. They do not say that alcohol abuse is not harmful; instead, they say that limited consumption is not harmful. Not just that, they also believe that limited consumption of alcohol may actually boost your health. These people rationalize this by talking about liver. Liver is an organ in the abdomen whose function is to filter and process blood as it circulates through the body. They say that liver successfully purifies the blood of all toxins including excess alcohol in the bloodstream, and thus reducing the harmful effects of alcohol to nil. The same people further state the fact that liver destroys itself while carrying out its function and regenerates itself after being damaged as it is the only organ in the body that can regenerate itself. Since liver has to do more work to remove alcohol from the bloodstream, alcohol puts more on liver to do its job and regenerate faster, and this pressure on the liver and strengthens it. They compare it with muscles in our body which require exercise to strengthen up. However, they do not question the fact that excessive alcohol can damage the liver, cause alcohol intoxication, and damage the body in many ways. These people also do not say that underage drinking is not harmful. They merely say that if alcohol is consumed wisely at a proper age it can be beneficial to the human body. 
To conclude, I strongly believe drug and alcohol abuse among the youth is a major concern that today's society faces today, and I don't think that this problem will go away anytime soon. So, to reduce this, people, especially the youth, should be properly educated about this issue and realize that a change is necessary. Unfortunately, you cannot completely get rid of this problem; there will always be a few who will engage in such activities despite all the efforts. However, it can certainly be reduced if this issue is tackled effectively. 
Citations: 
1) <name>. Personal Interview. November 5, 2015 
2) "Underage Drinking", National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Web. 
3) Hawkins, D., Catalano, R, & Miller, J. (n.d.). Risk and Protective Factors for Alcohol and Other Drug Problems in Adolescence and Early Adulthood: Implications for Substance Abuse Prevention. 
