Why it's difficult for International Students to Succeed in University with Respect to Domestic Students ? 
Abstract 
This project aims to answer the following questions: What kind of challenges we can face as international students? How can these problems affect academic as well as social success of international students? Finally what are contrasting points between international and domestic students? 
Why it's difficult for International Students to Succeed in University with Respect to Domestic Students? 
Plutarch the Greek biographer once said, "The mind is not a vessel to be filled, but a fire to be kindled". There is no better phrase to describe current state of educational system in developed countries. Foreigners in developing countries look at foreign education as a system, which is powered by high research and tremendous amount of opportunities for students to explore in their field of study. Looking at wide array of opportunities available, international students flock to countries like America, United Kingdom etc. to secure higher education. On their dream of pursuing better education, they reside in these countries, far away from their families, on temporary resident visa. Initially many of them face much difficulty in acclimatizing to environment, language and culture. These problems can therefore act as hindrance in their University success. 
Domestic and International students face transition issues in their first semester of study, but with distinct differences. Ramsay et al.(1999) found that first year international students at Australian Universities had problems understanding lectures in terms of terminology and pace while domestic students found difficulties in terms of course material dissatisfaction and instructors policies. Such problems of international students provoked feelings of embarrassment, frustration, and disappointment and boredom. 
Hechanova-Alampay et al. (2002) found that international students experienced less social support than domestic students, most likely because their family and friends were far away. The findings also indicated that the more interaction international students had with Americans, the greater their adjustment. Only a small percentage of international students reported having close friendships with domestic students, however, this was due to lack of opportunity and preference for friendships with co-nationals. 
Rajapaksa and Dundes (2002) discovered that international students felt more lonely and homesick than domestic students. Their adjustment, measured by feelings of loneliness and homesickness, was affected by their satisfaction with social networks as opposed to the number of close friends. American students' adjustment was unrelated to these factors. They reported having more close friends than international students, while the latter were more apt to have friendships with international students than with Americans. The studies suggest that social support is important to international student adjustment, and that while friendships with domestic students are helpful, they may be uncommon. 
