P5d3_arp 
8 December, 2015 
Binge Drinking & college: Is it really worth the consequences? 
One of the first words that come to mind when college campuses are mentioned is alcohol. Drinking is looked upon as a social and entertaining habit, and since having a social life during college is necessary for students, alcohol abuse is a very common activity. Students think that they're expanding their college experience by binging every Saturday night, when they clearly aren't. Countless studies have been conducted on alcohol and students, such as "Effects of Binge Drinking on College Students" by Veronica Harper, and results included severe car injuries, intoxication, unwanted sexual activity, academic crisis, and possible death. That is a sum up of why I am against students binge drinking. A late night drink and laugh with great company sounds pretty enjoyable, but when it comes with a side of liver failure, vomiting, and a GPA below 2.0, it's a different story. 
In early October, I conducted an interview with a Purdue Police Officer to figure out whether alcohol is causing major problems on campus. At Purdue University, on days with a sports game, students would drink alcohol in large quantities with their group of friends at around 9 a.m. in preparation for game day. This is called the Breakfast Club. When asked about the Breakfast club, the officer expressed an overwhelming amount of knowledge and experience with this topic. He stated that people are caught driving under the influence of alcohol every night of the weekend; it's constant. They've stopped people for drunk driving all the time. Drunk driving does not only affect the driver; but the passengers too, and everyone else around them. Alcohol slows down reaction time, meaning it would take longer for a driver to push the brake pedal if a pedestrian is seen crossing the road. In addition, students took the football goal posts down, in the past, taking them down to the Wabash River, and throwing them in. The police department have set rules to alleviate that, but there have been a couple of riots on campus, where large groups of students would go around and destroy public property. Being adults, this is unquestionably shocking behavior. Alcohol is supposed to be used as a way to enjoy the day. If the outcome includes trouble and possible arrest, I do not see why anyone would risk it. Students are at college for an education, but if exercising a certain activity results in a major drop in GPA and study habits, I do not see why it is still sane to continue. 
A research conducted by Boston University School of Public Health showed that in 1998, 10,052 18-24 years old college students died from alcohol-related unintentional, non-traffic deaths. These cover intoxication, homicide cases, suicide cases, and unintentional injury deaths. Death is not something to play around with. Some students can drink moderately and responsibly, as per the officer's words, but others take it way too far. If a student is not responsible with alcohol, death is an open door. Unintentional injuries stated earlier happen when an individual is faced with physical and fatal harm, such as shooting themselves by accident. For example, an eighteen-year old freshman at the University of Kansas fell from the seventh floor of a residence hall. The story sounds rather astonishing, but with a blood alcohol level over double the legal limit, it makes a lot more sense. The student lost his life, when it was just getting started. Not only was he dead, but his loved ones must have had such a hard time; especially his parents. It must have been such a hard time, for a very long time, and the simple cause was that the student decided to have a little fun and drink excessively and illegally. 
Many people argue that drinking is a personal preference. Anyone can choose to drink, because they are harming themselves and no one else. Just like how people can choose to smoke, they can choose to drink. They feel that as long as it in kept within personal confines, and is not harming anyone else, it is okay. Many people like to drink in order to socialize with other people. As long as they are drinking below the legal limit, and are causing no harm to the surroundings. Drinking is just as bad as passive smoking for the public, if not worse. A pedestrian is at a greater risk of being hit by a drunk driver, than getting lung cancer by passive smoking. There are so many rules to public smoking on campus, yet no major action is being taken for alcohol abuse. A student walking on campus can be raped or even killed by a drunk individual. Do you really think that binge drinking cannot affect the people around the abuser? Is harming your body for fun worth another person's life? 
Finally, I believe that each student is different from the next. One method of alcohol abuse prevention may not work for other students. On-campus Police Departments give alcohol presentations all the time; they do a number of them each year for anybody. Students don't seem to worry that much on binge drinking, but just because nothing has happened in the past, it does not indicate that nothing major will happen in the future. Therefore, it makes sense to provide students with up-to-date stories on life threatening alcohol-related scenarios that have occurred recently all over the United States. This will help them realize the risks they are prone to, and hopefully educate students about how to make the right decisions. With the newfound freedom to college students, one can easily be influenced and become lost in life. If everyone follows the rules and obeys the law, drinking would never be or would have been the dilemma it is currently. 
Bibliography: 
Harper, V. (2005). Effects of Binge Drinking on College Students. Retrieved from http://public.csusm.edu/smosleh/GEL101(Fall09TR)/Documents/GEL110/Crtical-Thinking/Effects of Binge Drinking on College Students.htm 
Magnitude of Alcohol-Related Mortality and Morbidity among U.S. College Students Ages 18-24. (n.d.). Retrieved November 1, 2015, from http://www.collegedrinkingprevention.gov/media/Journal/136-Hingson.sep.pdf 
Emerg, A. (n.d.). Fatal nontraffic injuries involving alcohol: A metaanalysis. Retrieved November 19, 2015, from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10339681 
