The world's best player 
	Who is the world's best soccer player? The world's best soccer player is the one who shines on the field the most and makes the craziest plays. What is required to these skills? Do we need the natural talent or can people overcome with each person's effort. I believe that natural talent is more important than one's effort. These days there are two players that are universally known for their crazy plays. Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo are two players that make the craziest plays. However, they grew with different aspects, Ronaldo grew by extremely hard work and Messi was just naturally talented. I believe that natural talent will produce the world's greatest soccer player. 
	Cristiano Ronaldo had a weak physique when he was young. It held him back from being a professional soccer player, but with hard work he became one of the world's best players. As of now, he is scoring 66 goals per season. This was all because of his dedication in soccer. He did many sit ups and pushups every day. He did not have any talent when he was young. However, he got better eventually by working very hard. Despite his terrible environment, he overcame everything. However, his existence is still smaller than Messi. Messi's existence in a professional game is different than any other players. 
	Gifted with high level skills of dribbling, shooting, and passing, Lionel Messi has risen to become one of the world's greatest soccer players. His talent, incomparable to others, is a god- given gift. When one sees Messi play in a professional game, one will know why he is praised as the best player in the world. His plays make him stand out in the game. He shines in every game and makes the most unpredictable plays. While Cristiano Ronaldo can make a game score 1-0 to 6-0, Messi can make the game from 0-1 to 3-1. This is what you call talent. The skill to make the game change. 
	Both of these players are great in their own ways. Ronaldo is a goal scoring machine, while Messi makes the greatest passes. Their history is also different. While Ronaldo was poor and had a weak physique, Messi had the money and opportunities to grow. Ronaldo grew up in a hard environment, he started soccer without cleats. He played in the streets and got scouted because his plays were outstanding in the streets. Messi began at an elite level. He was in the Barcelona youth team and spread his wings tremendously there. Both of these players have worked hard, but Ronaldo is a step lower than Messi. 
	Ultimately, between talent and hard work, talent is the better. No matter how much hard work one puts in, the one with natural talent will always be ahead of the hard workers. Even if they put in the same amount of effort, natural talent will always be ahead. No matter how much Ronaldo puts in effort, he will never have the insane dribbling skills and the soccer sense of Messi. Hard work will only beat talent when talent fails to work hard. If a talent like Messi works hard, there is no player that can stop him. Talent is the key to winning games in sports. 
