11/29/15 
Argumentative essay 
Draft 2 
The reasons of not having genetically modified food 
In today's society, people are getting more and more cautious on selecting food. The reason is that there are a lot more different types of food appearing on the market and most of the people prefer the healthy ones. Among all the kinds of food, there is a type of food called genetically modified food. Nevertheless, genetically modified food, which is also called GM food, is never a preferential choice to people. Even though GM food is actually important to developing countries. In this paper, I will talk about three reasons of why people not choose genetically modified foods which are environmental problem, health issue, and consumers' rights and famers' violation. 
First of all, I will talk about the environmental problems that genetically modified food brings to us. As the article "10 reasons to avoid GMO" by Jeffery Smith stated, growing GM food is very harmful for the environment since the use of toxic herbicide is higher than the normal amount and obviously it is not a good thing to the earth or marine ecosystem. He said that GM crops and the associated herbicides can also jeopardize not only the earth but also animals including insects, birds, amphibians, and soil organisms. In order to prove this point, author Smith also mentioned a few examples in this article. According to the research, wild GM canola which are growing in California and North Dakota are threatening to transmit its herbicide tolerant genes to weeds, monarch butterflies' population has been reduced to fifty percent as well because of the growth of GM crops in the US. He also indicted that "roundup herbicide can lead to birth defects in amphibians, embryonic deaths and endocrine disruptions, and organ damage in animals even at very low doses" (Smith 2). Overall, these evidences strongly support my idea of environmental damage of GMO. Thus, as I said before, genetically modified food is harmful to the environment. 
Secondly, the health issues which come from eating genetically modified food is also extremely serious. Having GM food can be harmful to humans. However, most of the people do not know how to identify GM food and non-GM food. Take my own experience as an example, I liked sweet corn and I thought sweet corn was both delicious and healthy when I was little. Nevertheless, after I did some research about genetically modified food, I found out that not all of the sweet corn is healthy and natural; there is a kind of corn called GMO sweet corn that is harmful to our bodies. The research stated that like most of GM crops, genetically modified sweet corn has not been thoroughly tested that it is safe, and actually GM food would never be safe. From the same article "10 reasons to avoid GMO" by Jeffery Smith, Mr. Smith also mentioned that eating GM food can cause organ damage, immune system disorder, accelerated aging, infertility and gastrointestinal which are mostly long-term health problem and can transfer to our DNA. My interviewee, <name> told me that since GM crop is basically the crop plant by transferring other genes, most of time humans' bodies are not able to absorb it and it could have negative effects on human health. In conclusion, genetically modified food can result in health issue. 
Last but not the least, GM food can also have adverse impacts on consumers' rights and farmers' violation. Also, the article "10 reasons to avoid GMO" by Jeffery Smith mentioned that governments' superficial regulations and safety assessment ignore the health and environmental risks that GM food could bring to our people. It shows that government does not attach importance to the danger which comes GM food; people probably pay a lot of money to buy unhealthy food for their families. He emphasizes that governments are even lying that it is totally fine to sell genetically modified food; they claim that there are no information shows that GM food are substantially different from other natural food. My previous research paper also indicated that the farmers who are not planting GM crops could be sued by the companies of producing GM food for restricting GMO uses. Therefore, having genetically modified food could be harmful to both consumers and farmers. 
However, we still cannot ignore the benefit of genetically modified food. Although most of the developed countries' citizens are not willing to have GM food, for the people who live in developing countries are happy to have GM food. Because in many developing countries, people die due to starvation; having food to survive is more crucial than having healthy food for them. 
Different people have different starting points and attitudes toward genetically modified food. For the people who do not need to consider starvation, they should stay away from GM food. But for the people who need to survive, GM food is not a bad choice to them. 
To sum up, the three reasons of not having genetically modified food I discuss are to inform people to try their best to avoid GM food. I used my own experience, some articles, and the information from my interview to prove my point. I hope there would be one day that everyone can have healthy and natural food. 
Work cited 
Smith, Jeffery. "10 Reason to avoid GMO." Institute for Responsible Technology. Institute for Responsible Technology, Aug 25, 2011. Web. 19 Nov. 2015. 
2 
