Social Issues Caused by Smartphone 
Forty years ago, people used letters and books to keep in touch with the whole wide world. Nowadays, people just need to click buttons on their smartphone. There are people who believe smartphone has brought the human being a brighter future on many aspects, such as education, medication. The way people gather information has been as fast as possible. It is a common sense that everything has two aspects. Smartphone benefits people but at the same time it also brought underlying social issues. In this argumentative essay, I am going to talk about the social problems smartphone has delivered to students. I think the use of smartphone should be controlled for people's better socializing abilities. 
It is true that smartphone helps students make friends quickly; however, many of they were obsessed with a smartphone, some of the students can only frequently chat with a friend on a smartphone but when they meet each other it seems both of them can not find a topic to continue the conversation. The main reason causing this phenomenon when using a smartphone was they can not see each other, without facial communication their conversation can by misleading. Meanwhile, countenance was always a critical part of a good conversation. By chatting by using smartphones for a long while, this kind ability will gradually degenerate. As a victim of the smartphone, I encountered such problems before. When I meet my friend in person, it was so awkward that I have no idea have to communicate with her, and I was speechless all the time. That situation was due to the overusing smartphone. I felt safe typing words on my smartphone but can not come out with a single sentence when meeting in person. I believe many students have the same situation I faced before. A good way to retrieve the ability is to put down your phone and communicate with someone face-to-face. 
Some people may feel that the main reason for the loss of socializing ability was not the smartphone; it should be attributed to only personal reason, but I disagree because nowadays almost everyone has a smartphone even my parents can not break away from it. Many times, my parents educate me not to spent so much time on the smartphone, it is bad for health, for academic performance, for making real friends. At the same time, they already spent hours on it every day. Every night when I lied in bed, the last "mission" to end my daily routine was to check my smartphone. I was so tried, but I can not put down my phone. Tons of novelty, anecdote and news smartphone can give me. However, I realize I don not need that information, and I will possibly forget it in hours. To "gain" this information, I also spent my precious time. Even worse, I will be extremely drowsy next day and unable to participate in the class. In my opinion, the reason students are addicted is because smartphone are too easy to access. For some students whose self-control were not high enough, the harm will appear on them. 
It might be claimed that smartphone has contributed to many domains, helping people with education, navigation and communication. However, an article I read before claimed that overusing smartphone has a chance to cause mental issues with several health problems. I think this is critical because if without a healthy body we are incapable of doing anything. It is hard to control, but it is necessary, many of them unlock our smartphone then has nothing to do. They rather swipe the screen but can not put it down. I was one of them, and I have experienced the harm it brought to me. We will not receive any benefit if we have lost our socializing skills and we will suffer the pain it brought to us. Maybe after years, someone will wonder why he can not make friends. 
Everything has its double sides. I believe people should not rely on smartphones, because when we gain something we will lose another at the same time. The important part is how to balance between those two sides. People should treat smartphone as a tool to help them gather information when needed, but not depends on it treat it as a part of their daily routine. Tools are made to help people with efficiency; it should never control people's life. Do not spend limited time on the tool, those things we obtain on the smartphone was not always helpful. 
