12/02/2015 
Argumentative Essay 
D#3 
Taekwondo 
With the progress of education and the severe arguments it creates, persistent issue is happening whether Taekwondo is one of the strongest martial arts in the world. This litigious issue is now popular among general people or martial art experts. Naturally, various people born from diverse backgrounds have different perceptions towards it; however, according to my understanding, Taekwondo has sufficient reasons to be classified as strongest martial arts based on the following reasons: Taekwondo is approved martial arts by Olympic game, it is stronger and has longer range compared to other martial arts, and its kick has the strongest power. With rational thinking, scrutiny for some of its essentialities will be divulged in order to support the claim. 
	Taekwondo takes an important role in martial arts field, and it is shown through Olympics. Qualifying as one of the Olympic games is not an easy task. To be selected as an Olympic game, the martial art has to be well-operated in at least 75 countries in four continents, and it has to pass the complicated examinations. Since 1994, Taekwondo was selected as an official Olympic Game. This shows that Taekwondo was well-operated in at least 75 countries in four continents. It also passed the complicated and difficult exams. Even though there are noticeably good results, some people might say that having Taekwondo as one of the Olympic games does not prove that it is better than other martial arts that are not in the Olympic. However, I think it can at least prove that it has some specialties which other martial arts do not have. Therefore, unless these are reputed, it will be difficult to side with this argument. 
	Another reason that should be taken into consideration is that Taekwondo has the longer range and is stronger than other martial arts which use arms. Most of the martial arts use arms instead of legs; however, Taekwondo mainly uses legs, so it has more possibilities to reach the opponents, and as most people know, kicking is much stronger than punching (Approximately 3 times stronger than punching). The most important skills for the martial art is hitting, so having longer range than the opponents is a good advantage. Some opponents might claim that Taekwondo only uses legs, and that is big defect of Taekwondo. However, it can be easily countered with my interviewee's answers. My interviewee, <name>, said that Taekwondo, which people usually see in the public is an WTF (World Taekwondo Federation) style, and it rarely uses hands. However, there are many different types of taekwondo and they usually use both kicking and punching. Therefore, taekwondo is one of the strongest marital art in the world. 
	Lastly, Taekwondo is the strongest in kicking out of all of the martial arts. There are few martial arts which mainly use legs. For example, according to the article "Measurement and Comparison of Taekwondo and Yongmudo Turning Kick Impact Force for Two Target Heights," some researchers were curious about which one of the martial arts can perform the strongest kick, and they compared Taekwondo, Muay Thai, Kick Boxing, and Capoeira. Researchers gathered marital arts experts and measured the power of each martial arts' kick in order to rank them. Each expert kicked the punching bag, which has impact measuring machine inside in it, three times in order to measure accurately. As a result, Muay Thai was stronger than Kick boxing, and Kick Boxing was stronger than Capoeira. Evidently, Taekwondo was the best among those martial arts. Some might counter that Taekwondo cannot be defined as the strongest martial art in kicking just by the experiment within those few martial arts. However, I can rebut that those few martial arts are most well-known in kicking field, so it is reasonable to say that Taekwondo is the strongest in kicking out of all martial arts. These approved research will make my thesis statement stronger. Therefore, I can definitely claim that Taekwondo is best out of any other martial arts or anything that uses legs. 
	As shown above, there are conflicting positions regarding whether Taekwondo is one of the strongest martial arts in the world or not. However, this essay is of the position that Taekwondo is satisfied to be known as the strongest martial art. The indubitable reason is that it is a sport which is chosen by Olympic committee. Taekwondo also is stronger and has the longer reach point than the most martial arts which use hands. Lastly, it is proved that Taekwondo is the best martial art if any one wants to use martial art that uses legs. Therefore, I have a confidence with my opinion that Taekwondo is one of the strongest martial arts in the world. 
Work Cited 
O'Sullivan, David, Chulsoo Chung, Kikwang Lee, Euihwan Kim, Sungchul Kang, Taewhan Kim, and Insik Shin. "Measurement and Comparison of Taekwondo and Yongmudo Turning Kick Impact Force for Two Target Heights." Journal of Sports Science & Medicine. Asist Group, n.d. Web. 14 Oct. 2015. 
3 
