Final 
November 17, 2015 
Artificial Intelligence - Final Essay 
Recently, artificial intelligence has generated much interest in the academic circles and general public since the advent of artificial intelligence and all its capabilities. Therefore, my project is about the benefits and drawbacks of artificial intelligence that can bring to human beings. In order to do this research, I have explored my topic by interviewing my computer science professor and the teacher assistant of computer science, searching information online, and reading professional essays. In this paper, my argument is that should we develop artificial intelligence? 
My answer is, we should and have to develop artificial intelligence industry. And the reasons are as follows. Firstly, artificial intelligent machines can enhance the efficiency of work and make human life more convenient. On one hand, as Stephen (2015) said in the article "Artificial intelligence and the promise of better information access", the systems like IBM and Palantir combine the function of statistical and linguistic methods to output many different versions of texts. It is convenient that users can interact with the servers through interfaces and gain the information that they need more efficiently. With the development of the artificial intelligence, search system has become more efficient and humanistic. On the other hand, professor <name> pointed out that "robots are able to access 100% of memory and process information at very fast speed. Compared to robots, human can only use less than 20% brain capacity." For instance, it will take us probably 5 minutes to compute the results of adding 25 three-digit numbers together, but computers can finish it in less than one second. 
Secondly, robots can replace humanity to do difficult and dangerous things, and more importantly, are able to do what we cannot do. Such as underground coal mining, it is dangerous to let people go down and plenty of accidents had already occurred. But if we send robots to do such things, we won't lose a human life. On the aspect of doing impossible things, we cannot jump on top of the car without any tools or see butterflies 5 miles away, but it can be achieved by the device. These are very basic cases. And there are lots of diffident areas in the scientific research that will use robots to do the things what we cannot do, such as Aerospace Engineering. 
Thirdly, artificial intelligent machines don't have emotions. They will treat everyone in the same way and make right decisions. Altman (2015) in the article "Robotics: Ethics of artificial intelligence" says that we should build artificial intelligence on health care. It can benefit fairly to everyone in health care, which is impossible to achieve in current health care system. Because different level of doctors will treat patients differently. Rich people will pay more money to see higher level doctors. Thus, poor people will have no choice to choose. They can only see lower level doctors. Also, machines can't and won't tell lies. When we are working, we will probably have self-interest and tell lies. However, this circumstance will never happen when machines are working. Because artificial intelligent machines will only consider the group interests. 
In conclusion, we should develop artificial intelligence industry. Because human life needs the merit of artificial intelligence. There are some science movies about artificial intelligence. They claim that intelligent robots will take over our world from us one day, which causes a panic in the public. People are afraid of artificial intelligent machines and dislike artificial intelligence industry. Based on this phenomenon, my professor <name> mentioned that "they are good science fictions, not good science." People don't have to be afraid of them. They are our friends, not enemies. Hauert (2015) in the article "Robotics: Ethics of artificial intelligence" suggests that scientists should become the messengers to talk to the public and show the advantages of artificial intelligence, as intelligent machines can benefit human in every aspect of human life. Besides that, he also points that funding agencies and institutes should support artificial intelligence to communicate with the public. As intelligent society is the inevitable trend of the development, we are supposed to support the development of artificial intelligence industry. 
