Earth Destruction; we are the killer 
What if I told you, that you only have till the end of today to live? I guarantee that it gave you goosebumps even when you want to start answering. After all, is it the fact that we can never predict our future. We even can't predict our own death, it will probably happen in the mere future and sadly, the same thing applies to our earth. The condition of the earth nowadays is bad and becoming more corrupted if we compared to its condition from millions of years ago. The only thing that constantly corrupting our earth is no other species than human itself. With the hazardous inventions and technologies made by human from time to time, there is a great possibilities that human will destroy the earth intentionally or accidentally., Therefore, I am strongly emphasize that human act is the main cause of the end of the world by misuse of technology, massive nuclear war, and global warming. 
As we know, technologies will never stop growing. Today they're numerous of researches and projects that conducted by humans all around the world. As the outcome, new technologies will always be introduced. Increase in technology means that humans are gaining more power or ability to do something more than what's limits a capability of a normal human being. For example, we can't even talked to our next door neighbor but since telephone was invented, we can even talk to someone from the other side of the world. With that, imagine what will technology give to human in the future, in this case, the ability to cause a massive destruction. This is also agreed by Nick Bostrom, a professor of Faculty of Philosophy in Oxford University in his article explaining about misuse of nanotechnology. According to Bostrom 2002 "A person of malicious intent in possession of this technology might cause the extinction of intelligent life on Earth by releasing such nanobots into the environment" p. 6. Many might opposed the idea of blaming technology as the cause of human destruction because technology already helped us a lot. The statement is true, but invalid for this case. Technology really help us a lot in a good way, but in the very end, it was the human itself that decides what to do with the technology. There is a high chances of someone with bad intentions decides to use a technology that originally built for good purposes to commit global crime. 
Baga. Photographer. Terminator Salvation [digital image]. Retrieved from http://www.hdwallpaperscool.com/terminator-desktop-wallpapers/ 
Undeniably, human nature resist any kind of violence and always craving for love. However, there are always conflicts and rivalries between human itself. This situation can get even worse when the conflict is getting more critical and involved some individual with greater power. As we can see nowadays, there are a lot of wars and killings between humans all over the world. These hideous acts will get uglier when nuclear weapon is involved. There are many bad side effects of nuclear war. Firstly, the post-war would give a big effect on our climate, which is well known as the nuclear winter. Nuclear winter is a phenomenon that slowly destroy the entire living things in the earth. This theory is logical and recognized by the director of Meteorology in Weather Underground Inc., Jeffery Masters. According to Masters during the nuclear winter, "Global temperatures would plunge 20 C to 40 C for several months, and remain 2 - 6 C lower for 1-3 years. Up to 70% of the Earth's protective stratospheric ozone layer would be destroyed, allowing huge doses of ultraviolet light to reach the surface. This UV light would kill much of the marine life that forms the basis of the food chain, resulting in the collapse many fisheries and the starvation of the people and animals that depend it. The UV light would also blind huge numbers of animals, who would then wander sightlessly and starve."p. 1. As we can see, there is a really tiny chance for a human can survive when all of the food chains are collapsed. These all would happen if somebody started a massive nuclear war. Nevertheless, there are some countries that are still obtaining and having a high potential of using such horrible weapons. 
Sohail. Photographer. 2014, April 29. Rescued hedgehog [digital image]. Retrieved from http://flickr.com/photos/peteoshea/5476076002/ 
Next, one of the human action that could lead to pandemonium is global warming. Global warming is always an issue when we talked about climate change. Our earth is actually a lot cooler in a millions of years ago compared to now. It is because of the emission of CO2 by burning trees, gas, oil or coal. Not only that, the uncontrollable emission of CO2 is now getting worse, and the effect of global warming on our life also are getting clearer. For example, the CO2 in the air will irritates asthma and allergies, which makes the lives more people at stake. The point is, we can see the effects of global warming is really harmful to us, but imagine what would happen if humans keep ignoring all this sign and continue to make our earth sick. Not only that, a research from Ethan Siegel, a NASA columnist and professor at Lewis & Clark College declared that global warming will be the cause of earth's annihilation. He also explain about the details of how can global warming could end the world by expressing that "A billion or two years from now, long before the Sun becomes a red giant and starts fusing helium, the temperatures on our world will rise too high for plants, animals or any creatures we know to survive."Siegel, 2015, p.1. 
In conclusion, human act is the main cause of the end of the world by misuse of technology, massive nuclear war, and global warming. If humankind from all over the world could work together to avoid all of the factors mentioned, the life of our earth would be spared for a longer time. But sadly by witnessing the collapsing of our humanity nowadays, it is hopeless. People are still killing and competing with each other and if this is still happening, the end of the world is near. 
