Argumentative Essay Draft#1 
Who is beneficial from the Crashes 
Nobody could have failed to notice the fact that 2015 Chinese stock market Crashes is becoming a vital role in investors' daily activities. Since it happened, the outside media and economists kept analyzing the situation of Chinese and international economy. However, from what I researched for the past three papers, I realize that the underneath truth which most of people ignored - who is beneficial from this economic crisis ? Investors? Government? Local economy ? Other countries? Based on the curiosity to this question, I gathered lots of supporting information. 
At the beginning of hypothesis, I felt confident with the point of view that other foreign countries would gain the merits. As we can imagine, Chinese economy was impacted form the Crashes, the opposite countries might be happy to see the declining Chinese economy. A recent economic paper published on Internet, has succeeded in providing convincing evidence to prove that China itself will be beneficial from this event. Why does this result appear? There are several possible reasons for this. To begin with , The Shanghai Composite (SSEC) hit 6200 before the world wide Financial Crisis in 2007. It fell to 3500 in the crisis, then trailed off to 2000 by mid 2014. In February 2015 it was up to 3200, where it started it's bubble climb to Jun 2015's peak around 5200. In late Jul 2015 it's around 3800. So this bubble and crash are not abnormal. The data above showed that even though the Chinese economy was influenced, compare with the whole trend of economy, it is still increasing in general. Additionally, in the long run, China will acquire this experience. And the price of stock may fluctuate in the future so that the high price of stock now may not be continued in the future. To sum up, the author(Hoversten) include his opinion to the Crashes into two sentences: " The government can't stop a crash. The market will recover. " 
To my surprise , China become the one who gain benefits from the Crashes rather than other foreign countries. In this way, I want to comprehend more data about the reasons and specific outcomes. The most widely-accepted reason responsible for this case is the change of composite index. To be specific, China's benchmark Shanghai Composite index reduced 8.5%, which result in the 0 increase for this year in general. Many companies, even some large state-owned firms, fell by the maximum daily limit of 10%. The index is now down 38% after the peak in June. (Thompson & Riley, 2015) 
In conclusion, All the evidence supports an unshakable conclusion that China is the one which is beneficial form the Crashes. Even though the result I found was not as same as the answer I used to guess, but it also a reliable reason. Moreover, there were several aspects need to be improved under this circumstance. A case in this point is that government should save the stock less than it did . 
