Teens Running Away: Good or Bad? 
Running away from home among teens has been a serious social phenomenon. There is a million of teenagers running away in a year. Running away behavior will have a huge impact on both personal and social scale. Therefore, it is important to prevent. However, many people believe that running away behaviors should be prevented while others argue that it can help teens be more independent. In order to reduce the potential risks of teens' health, adults' economy and social system, the effort put to prevent adolescents running away behavior is crucial. 
Firstly, children who run away from home could cause health problems, both physical and mental health. According to Joanna R. Love, the most common reason that teens running away is their dissatisfaction of life, like negative family environment and inner emotional needs. It means that if teens are dissatisfied of the stuff they own or not own, it will cause depression. Moreover, after children running away, they may face the challenge of discrimination or sexual abuse. These factors affect teens mental health. Indeed, teens who run away from home are more likely to commit suicide, alcohol and drug abuse, which have the detrimental effect on teenagers' health. (1-8) 
However, some people argue that running away behavior is good for children at some points so do not be prevented. Firstly, children will be more independent and brave after they get into society because nobody will give support and everything should be done by themselves. Teens will be more familiar to social environment than other peers, which give them big advantage when they work in the future. Besides, after they running away from home and facing challenges, they will understand the important of home and be more mature after return home. 
Yet as Xiaoli Cui said, many adolescents cannot return their home after leaving because of children trafficking, and it will have huge effort for both economy and police office. 
Compared to individuals who never ran away from home, adults ran away from home as adolescents have lower income, or limited success in life. According to the data collected, the income difference between these two groups is approximately 9000 dollars. In addition to this, those have ran away have lower education levels on average than never ran away adults. Moreover, those runaways receive more welfare than others. (4) In the life experience, it can be frequently seen on the newspapers that parents are seeking for their running away from home children, which means that families have spent a lot on media to find their children. 
running away has a significant impact on society, like justice system. After running away from home, teens do not have enough ability to support their life. Therefore, they will adopt certain practice in order to survive in difficult economic circumstance like crime committed. In fact, according to Jennifer Benoit-Bryan, adults who runaway in adolescence are over two and a half times higher to be arrested than those who never ran away from home. (4) Furthermore, after running away, teens may be abducted by strangers, or children trafficking because lack of ability to protect themselves. It will be a problem for police to find those children. 
Although those people believe that running away is good for children, it has more disadvantages for teens, therefore should be prevented. Running away behavior have potential risks on teens' health, adults' economy and social system. Therefore, the prevention is significant. Indeed, according to Love, in order to prevent teens running away behavior, teenagers' emotional needs and environment around them should be satisfied to change their mind. 
