Ever since mankind has been planted crops, they are always trying to improve the next generation of crop. Over the past several thousand years, our ancestors chose the crops by natural mutation. They accumulated the good gene by natural and random method. When genetics was founded, artificial hybridization, which uses different kinds of crop to hybridize in order to have a good generation, is the main way to get the good genes. The technique of genetically modification applies technological methods like biological engineering, which involves extracting genes from one type of food into another. The purpose of that is having a good and specific genetic material. Therefore, people apply the GM to change the characters of next generation. Whitman, who is B.S. (Biology, Phi Beta Kappa), Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, said that "For example, plant geneticists can isolate a gene responsible for drought tolerance and insert that gene into a different plant. The new genetically-modified plants will gain drought tolerance as well." (Whitman, 2000) GM foods have been modified to enhance desired traits. For instance, it can increase resistance of insect and herbicides or improve nutritional content. With so many benefits, GM food is very popular in the modern world. However, there are some of the criticisms against GM foods. They consider that environmental problems, human health risks and economic problems could be the main problem of GM food. If people avoid these problems with science methods, GM food will be the mainstream in the world.
Benefits of GM foods
Pesticide resistance
The pests are one kind of enemy with crop. They eat crop for life, but pests also damage the crop. Sometimes, pest can make a devastating damage of farming. Locust is one kind of pests that have large damage for farming. Locusts like warm and dry circumstance, so the plague of locusts always relates the drought. Since early April 2010, a large number of locusts swept the four states in southeastern Australia. It covers approximately 50 million square kilometers of area and gives a serious impact on production and life of the local residents. Famers always plant more trees or build water projects, such as dam, to change the local environment. Therefore, the best way to prevent the locusts is pesticide. People used pesticide to protect their farming and pests could be immediately killed by the pesticide. It seems to be a good way to prevent the crops. Therefore, almost all pesticides are made of chemical things, this is a potential problem. Chemical pesticides may cause the environmental problem: water pollution, soil pollution and air pollution are caused by it. In addition, pesticide use may also reduce biodiversity. There are some endangered animals may be extinct by pesticide. It also causes health risks. The food, which have been used pesticide, Many food crops, including fruits and vegetables, contain pesticide residues after being washed or peeled Many food crops, including fruits and vegetables, contain pesticide residues after being washed or peeled including fruits and vegetables, contain pesticide residues after being washed or peeled. "Chemicals are resistant to breakdown for long periods and it will remain in soil and water and thus in food."?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pesticide? People can be damaged by these chemicals.
People do not want eat foods that have chemical things, but famer still have to find a method that can prevent the crop from pests. So the GM foods become popular in people's life. Scientists find some other genes and lead in the crop that we need, so this crop has a resistance of pests. For example, GM paddy that has pest resistance genes have much more output than conventional paddy. Also, it has few chemical things. Not only it has pest resistance, there are many resistances of GM foods if we lead in the genes that we need.
Herbicide tolerance
Herbicide is a substance used to kill plants that we do not need. The herbicides can make the plants grow abnormally and the plants will lose their dysfunction, then they are dead. Much information shows that using herbicides in quantity may cause cancer and fetal abnormality. These chemicals are harmful not only to increase the proportion of children with deformities, intelligence decline, and cancer but also cause other effects like long-term accumulation in the body that will affect the next generation's health. So people apply the GM technique that leads the genes, which have herbicide tolerance, in the crops' soy. The problem has been solved.
Cold tolerance
Cold weather can make the plants dead immediately. Let's look some information from website:
"In general, a frost (31-33 degrees F.) will kill beans, cantaloupe, corn, cucumbers, eggplant, okra, peas, pepper, potatoes, sweet potatoes, squash, tomatoes, and watermelon.
Colder temperatures (26-31 degrees F.) may burn foliage but will not kill broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, chard, lettuce, mustard, onion, radish, and turnip.
The real cold weather champs are beets, Brussels sprouts, carrots, collards, kale, parsley, and spinach." (Sakko, 2002)
The GM strawberries have cold tolerance.
(http://aggie-horticulture.tamu.edu/PLANTANSWERS/vegetables/coldtoler.html)
This information shows us that the different kinds of vegetables will be dead in different temperature. So the cold weather is one of the very important elements in farming. "An antifreeze gene from cold water fish has been introduced into plants such as tobacco and potato. With this antifreeze gene, these plants are able to tolerate cold temperatures that normally would kill unmodified seedlings." (Whitman, 2000) As Whitman said, people also put the specific genes in the crop in order to let them have cold tolerance.
Similarly, scientists can use specific genes that we need to change the crops' characteristics. For example, we can let the plants have ability, which have drought tolerance or salinity tolerance.
Nutrition
People eat food not only for hunger, but also for nutrition. Nutrition is very important part when we eat. Each food has its own nutrition, but sometimes we need one kind of food includes multiple nutrition. Tryptophan is one kind of protein, which human beings need it necessarily. It cannot be synthesized artificially, human only absorb it by some animals, because plants have few tryptophan. Scientists still use GM technique put tryptophan in corn, this is good news for vegetarian. Here is a list from Sakko's article:
* Rice with built-in Vitamin A that can help prevent blindness in 100 million children suffering from Vitamin A deficiency;
* A tomato that softens more slowly, allowing it to develop longer on the vine and keep longer on the shelf;
* Potatoes that absorb less fat when fried, changing the ever-popular French fries from junk food into a more nutritional food;
* Strawberry crops that can survive frost;
* An apple with a vaccine against a virus that causes childhood pneumonia.
These are some of the benefits promised by biotechnology. (Sakko, 2002)
Professor Whitman said that "Malnutrition is common in third world countries where impoverished peoples rely on a single crop such as rice for the main staple of their diet. However, rice does not contain adequate amounts of all necessary nutrients to prevent malnutrition." (Whitman, 2000) If rice is genetically modified to contain vitamin or some nutrition, the nutrient deficiencies could be solved in third world countries.
Economic in GM food
Food price is increasing because extreme weather conditions damaging crops. The GM food is no doubt that the best way to solve it. Yet consumers are worried that these new varieties will raise the price of seeds that small farmers and third world countries will not be able to afford seeds for GM crops, thus widening the gap between the wealthy and the poor. Supporters said that GM food will have great profits. Initially, the GM seeds are more expensive than conventional seeds, but it will save money on pesticides or herbicide. This is a lengthy process.
Some of the criticisms against GM foods
"The problem with GM crops is that there is little known about what effect they will have in." (Sakko, 2002) This is a new technique in people's normal life. Generally, criticisms have several reasons that against the GM food. Firstly, it may cause unintended harm to other organisms. Last year a laboratory study was published in Nature (Nature, Vol 399, No 6733, p 214, May 1999) showing that pollen from B.t. corn caused high mortality rates in monarch butterfly caterpillars. Secondly, it may reduce the effectiveness of pesticides. Some people are worried that the pest will have a resistance with pesticide. Thirdly, gene may transfer to non-target species. It also can be called cross-pollination. The cross-pollination may create some weeds that we do not need. Then, GM food can lead human being in allergies and toxins. Lastly, there are many things we do not know about GM, so it could be some unknown effects on human health.
Conclusion
Different governments have different attitudes about GM food. Currently, testing of GM foods is voluntary. Japanese supermarkets are offering both GM foods and unmodified foods, and customers are beginning to show a strong preference for unmodified fruits and vegetables. India's government has not yet announced a policy on GM foods because no GM crops are grown in India and no products are commercially available in supermarkets yet. (Whitman, 2000)
There are more and more evidences and examples that show the GM food can solve the world hunger and malnutrition problems. Few researches can prove the GM can make large risks in ecosystem, environment and human's health. GM foods are not perfect to use. People need make much more researches to avoid the GM's risks. In a word, GM foods will be the mainstream in the world.
Reference
Frederic Golden (1999) Genetically Modified Food: Who's Afraid of Franken food? Time. Retrieved Monday, Nov. 29, 1999, fromhttp://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,992686,00.html
Jamal, Farrukh, et al. "Genetically modified (GM) foods: a brief perspective." International Journal of Biotechnology & Biochemistry 6. 1 (2010): 13+. Academic One File. Web. 7 Apr. 2010.
Deborah B. Whitman (2000). Genetically Modified Foods: Harmful or Helpful?
Kerryn Sakko (2002). The Debate Over Genetically Modified Foods. Retrieved on 2002, from http://www.actionbioscience.org/biotech/sakko.html
Laura Crowley (2008). GM may provide solution to rising food prices. Retrieved on 20-Feb-2008, from http://www.foodproductiondaily.com/Supply-Chain/GM-may-provide-solution-to-rising-food-prices
J. Lassen, K.H. Madsen, P. Sandoe. (2002) Ethics and genetic engineering - lessons to be learned from GM foods. Bioprocess and Biosystems Engineering , 24 ,(2002) , 263-271
