Rural Life Or Urban Life
What are the differences between rural life and urban life? In the argument between rural life and urban life, I live in civilian life. One of my relatives is living in a rural area. I went to visit him in summer. When you go to a rural area, there is no any kind of entertainment for example, there are no amusement, gyms, zoos and malls. There are only farms and Corrals. There are no libraries, cultural centers and the education system is very low. Internet is very slow does not allow for Chatting. There is no fun. Rural life needs work hard to living. In end, I miss to urban life. This is my personal story in rural life. Urban life is live in city or town. Urban life includes Skyscrapers, internet and airports. Rural life is very simple life. They live close to nature, farms and corrals. This topic is important for people who are looking for change where they live or studying. This essay will support urban life. Even though some people think that there are many disadvantages to living in a city, the research in this paper will compare health, education and entertainment that the difference in how the urban lifestyle has more benefits than disadvantages.
Urban life has with modern things for example, TV, phones and internet. Still, more and more people prefer to live in cities, because there are more facilities and means of comfort available there also, there are schools, colleges, universities, libraries, banks and business opportunities, hospitals and pharmacists, hotels and restaurants, museums, art galleries, night clubs and what not. In fact, there are varied means of getting desired education, medical aid and means of entertainment. Most of these things you can find only in urban cities. Most people in urban life are dependent on technology in their lives. For example, most people used cell phones and Internet. These things are very important things to live in urban life.
People in rural areas live in close proximity to nature and animals. The people who live in rural areas know each other and they help each other more than people who live in urban. Most rural people live on farms. Many Rural people produce foods from their farms and their animal. Due to a relatively lesser number of people inhabiting the rural areas, the rural parts are not overcrowded by people. Rural areas have managed to maintain an environmental balance, because there are a lot of trees and forests. There is no contamination of factories (Oak,2007). But that's not enough to get happy life.
Health is the most important thing in human life. Healthy life is helpful to get happy life without any kind of sickness.(Global Health University, 2006) . According to (Brandon , 2009) health benefits of rural living negated, because poor hospital in rural area. A national sampling showed 16. 5 percent of rural children were obese, compared to 14. 4 percent of urban children. The rural South had the highest levels of overweight (34. 5 percent) and obese (19. 5 percent) children. Almost 42 percent of rural children report not participating in any after-school sports or activities. Forty-eight percent of rural children ages 10-17 report spending at least two hours per day with electronic entertainment media, slightly higher than the 47 percent of urban children. The finding shows why health benefits of rural living negated. The finding happened because; there is no enough awareness community and health education rural life community for example health Screening, most people in rural life they do not care about it because awareness community and health education are very low. Rural hospitals are not advanced well, most rural hospitals are very simple. They do not process and address the high health situations as well as urban hospitals do, according to (Ernst,1992) the number of nurses is less than rural hospitals. Most nurses cannot adapt in urban life well, because most nurses come from urban areas and they don't adapt to rural living well. There are not enough nurses that live in rural life, or want to live in a rural area.
In urban life, there are many community awareness and health educations on websites or advertisements. Community awareness and health education has made many good habits in urban life for example, exercising daily and having annual health screening. In urban life, there are better hospitals and doctors for example, according to (Karin Rush-Monroe on July 19, 2011) the top 10 Best hospitals in the world are in urban area. For an example, Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore Massachusetts, the General Hospital in Boston and Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles California.
The most important advantages of urban community are the availability of avenues of employment, because there are many big factories. The factories need many employees to work on it. And many of the commercial markets. There are a lot of opportunities to get many jobs. Most people moved to cities and towns in search of employment, educational opportunities and higher standards of living.
This chart shows the population between urban people and rural people. Result of chart is between 2005-2010 Population of urban has become a high than the population in rural areas. On other hand in rural community no such opportunities exist in villages where the people depend mostly on agriculture. There are no big companies and factories need many employees. Narrow your search is one of the problems of employment in rural areas. There are many options to work. Most of the work to be hand for example, Sewing and harvesting crops.
Education is very important to develop a good community. Rural education has many issues (Carroll, Sue Ellen, 1990) for an example, economic changes, technological improvements, increase in demand for reform in curriculum and classroom management. Also there are teacher shortages, that have low educations, and the lack of financial support. In the past some states in America have taken responsibility for education, but there are still issues that are issues left unresolved. People who live in rural areas are more diverse though there lifestyle which create a good understanding within the community. Although they don't have as many benefits as urban living have, rural living is rural living and without it there would be not differences in Urban and Rural living. Yes, there are differences and similarities and one might be better than the other but our world needs both to understand and have a balance.
Entertainment is a very important part for our life. People like to have fun on their free time. Urban living has a lot of entertainments and things to do. Like go to the movies, hang out with friends and travel. One good example for urban living is New York City.
This picture shows how big an urban lifestyle can be, living among millions of people. According to frommers. Create a different lifestyle and accustoms for a person to get easily adjusted to and create a certain type of needs. There are many areas of entertainment in New York City for example, Warhol,Pollock at Mo MA, or the comprehensive and essential Metropolitan Museum of Art. All of these are support entertainment part in our life.
Rural living is a hard and tedious life. There are not many entertainment services and the Internet is very spotty and slow (Barrett, 2011). Most people in rural life engaged in agriculture and livestock breeding. There are few zoos or amusement parks in rural area. Internet has some aspects of the entertainment for example games and chatting online. Games and chatting online need high speed internet . Many rural areas cannot get the high speed internet service because there are not many Internet service providers in rural areas. It has simply been too expensive for traditional cable and phone providers to offer high-speed internet service to the few customers they might need it in such areas.
Life is easier in urban life. Urban areas are equipped with all the modern amenities. The modern-day facilities like the Internet, telephone, television and satellite communication facilities are widely available in the urban area. Due to a greater availability of all the modern facilities along with an increase in the number of educational facilities and career opportunities, people of the urban areas lead an economically more stable and a luxurious life.
In conclusion, Rural, and Urban living are both very different in so many aspect of habits, education, entertainment, and nutrition. Although urban living is much better in so many ways, for an example it is good for a community and beneficial for a persons health. Rural living has a down fall like there is the lack of good health care and education. Urban living has good educational systems and good hospitals. Urban living does have better improvement in a lot of issues that rural areas do not' have it. Urban living is not perfect but, urban living is the best.
