Online Multi-player Games 
At present, playing online multi-player games has been a very common entertainment experience for teenagers. Some of them require players to fight against each other. While other of them focus on teamwork of players. They must work as groups to continue the games. These games create the virtual spaces for player and provide them the chances of social interaction. So, these online multi-player games help players to develop their leadership, teamwork and communication skills in the real life because they provide opportunities for them to cooperate and communicate with each other. 
First, players will develop their teamwork skills through playing the games because it is impossible for an individual to do everything in multi-player games. The teamwork is the essence of multi-player games. Players must contribute to coordination to finish the tasks. When players work together, they can be more effective than any of them could be on their own. For instance, Defense of the Ancients is a five versus five game, which means the players need to form as a group to start the game. When they work as a group, each player has to play his role correctly. When working together, all group members must coordinate their actions in order to win. In some matches, the team failed because one player played did not play well or enemy players had a better coordination. In these games which focus on the players' cooperation, it is very common that someone plays very well individually but he or she still loses the game. Like these games, in reality, people need to do much teamwork. The multi-player games may help people practice teamwork skills. 
Second, players will develop their communication skills through playing the games. The games help players to talk to each other through the Internet instead of facing each other. Playing the games is about more than killing enemies. Communication is also a part of multi-player games. Most players do not want to lose the chance to talk with other players and the participation and interaction will help them develop their communication skills. However, some people have stereotype that people who play many online games are not familiar with real life and do not like to talk because they pay too much attention to computer games. In fact, while playing social games, players will learn how to use effective communication and collaboration skills among each other in their virtual world. They can then apply the skills learnt in the games while in real world, such as when meeting their friends at classrooms. People who play multi-player games are not necessarily lacking on social skills. They can interact with people better than or the same as those who does not play games in the society. 
Third, leadership skills of people will developed through the game experience because multi-player games require social interactions between players and they will naturally experience some events which help enhance their leadership skills. Usually, advanced players need to be leader and teach newcomers what they are supposed to do in the matches because his friends do not know how to play their roles. Matt Paquin, the President of Purdue DOTA 2 Club, is an advanced player in multi-player games. He stated in some situations, multi-player games will improve the leadership of every player. Related to his own experience, he has been an advanced player of DOTA 2 and always tries to bring his friends who are newcomers to play the game. He needs to be the leader of that team and teach others what they are supposed to do in the matches because his friends do not know how to play their roles. He stated the games help him to learn how to participate as a leader and he improved his leadership through the games. Furthermore, there was a data set from Georgia Institute of Technology in 2010 which showed the effect of multi-player games to leadership skills of people. It showed that over 90% people who have ever played online multi-player games had been once the leader of an important academic search. However, in the people who never plays online multi-player games, the percentage is smaller. The data completely illustrated multi-player games help people develop their leadership skills. 
In conclusion, online multi-player games impact social skills of people. While playing games, players learn to use communication, collaboration and teamwork skills among each other in the virtual world. They can then utilize these skills in real life. Players need to participate more in the game community to help them develop their social skills. 
