Beyond as a Biology Graduate
	What is the most important factor pursuing a career in biology? Many biology students wants to know the important factors that would guide them to work toward a certain career such as research technician or biology professor. In fact, the majority of the students may already know the answer to the question prescribed by heart, but they don't feel the same way with their heart. In order for students to pursue a career in biology such as biology research technician or biology technician, it is most important for students to have interest and passion about biology careers and want to learn more about the career they choose to pursue.
	One of the reasons why the student's interests toward certain biology career is most important in choosing a career is that student's interests allows student to be engaged more into the subject studying and specialized into a career. For example, a student who has interest in biology and teaching will focus into field of education in biology; student who likes doing more research and spending time in labs will specialize into research technician. In addition, according to article written by Kathleen Eyster, of Division from Basic Biomedical Sciences, University of South Dakota, she stated, "students then should assess their personal interests" regarding of students choosing a career in biology fields (Eyster 327). Dr. Eyster further pointed out that, it is also possible for students' interest in other specific area to combine with biology background to form unique career (Eyster 327). As a result student's strong interest toward specific area in biology guides student to field where he or she find most attracted to and eventually specialize into that field. Student with interest in specific field will focus more and try hard to achieve student's goal in that specific career field.
Another reason why student's interest is most important factor in choosing a career is that student will have to stick with the chosen career for quite a long time to become an expert in that field. It is possible for student to change the career during his or her career development duration. However it is not easy to change the career from one thing to another if student has been working in the field for quite a while. So why not choose a career that interest a person from beginning? According to biology professor Dr. <name> <name> <name> from Purdue University from an interview, he said, "I like biology and working with students in the university" as one of reason why he chose to become a biology professor <name> Dr. <name> studied both geology and biology in the university. Dr. <name> said that he could have worked for oil drilling company after studying geology, but since he likes biology and students over geology and oil company, he became a professor. He received his Ph.D. in 1981 at Purdue University and taught students over 30 years. Dr. <name> studied his field of biology for long time beginning from university student to now a professor in the university. It was possible for him because he had great effort and interest toward his field. Therefore it is important for students to find career that most interest them and be prepared to spend long time in that field to become an expert.
Even though student's interest is one of important factors in pursuing a career, a mere interest of individual is not the most important factors among other factors that actually help student to get to specific career and be successful. There are other factors that are far most significant to consider in pursuing a career such as skills and education. According to Dr. Eyster it is vital for student to have critical thinking skill and persistence if he or she wants to become a research technician (Eyster 323). Dr. <name> adds on that practicing organization, managing time, and getting along with people will help in both as technician and professor <name> In other words, if student's skill and trait doesn't match with the career, the student will not be able to be successful in that career. In order to become a technician a minimum of BS degree is required; earning through Ph.D. gives student more opportunities in the field. Normally to become a professor Ph.D. is required, but ordinary teachers can teach with BS degree. The time that takes to earn a Ph.D. is about 8~10 years, 4 years in undergraduate, 2 years in MS program, and 2~4 years in Ph.D. program. The education during this long period will continue to build on to student's knowledge and help student to have solid foundation for the career and be successful. Despite of other factors, without a student's strong interest in specific career he or she will not study related subjects and practice skills necessary in career fields. Student with strong interest will be engaged to be educated in long term to achieve his or her goals in that field. Student with strong interest will practice skills and traits that would help them to be successful in the career fields.
Interest in career motivates students to learn more and eventually specialize into specific career. Among factors that help students to pursue a career in biology, the most important factor is that student having an interest toward a specific career. It would be recommendable for students to think and research about career that interest them the most in studying and specializing into that career instead of forcefully taking courses in university. Students with interest in a career will study hard with positive mindset even though they don't like the courses in order pursue career they desire. Without an interest in a career, student will not look into the career.
