The Oppression of Female in China 
Recently, the issue of protecting women has been posed among the general public due to the death of a pregnant woman in Chinese society. In Xiangtan, China, a pregnant woman died in a cesarean surgery due to the amniotic fluid embolism. As for the reason of the woman's death, some people attribute it to the hospital, while others think that the family held up too much time to make the decision to excise the woman's uterus. This event aroused a heated discussion about what kind of roles women play in a family, and how women can protect themselves against some "expectations" like being a mother, a girl, and a female citizen from Chinese traditional culture. However, in my perspective, this case is not just about the medical safety, it is also about the women's status in China. After doing a series of researches, I found out that the oppressions of female still exist in China, and it is largely related to the Chinese traditional culture: Confucianism. Thus, in this essay, I will talk about the social facts of women oppression and the effect that Confucianism brought to women. 
The oppressions of women include stereotypes, doing gender, and gender discrimination. Dana Bisignani, who is a teaching assistant in Women Gender Sexual Study, accepted my interview and gave the clear definitions about these three different concepts: a stereotype is a simplified and standardized conception or image invested with special meaning and held in common by members of a group, which is often far from the truth; doing gender means individuals are judged in terms of their failure or success to meet gendered societal expectations, and people are assigned different tasks based on their gender; and gender discrimination is the unequal treatment of people and preference based on their gender identities. 
From my own observation, these facts are easy to be found in Chinese society. People often hold the opinion that women should be feminine, submissive, and compliant and their success standard for women is simplistic and superficial, somehow, a "happy" family and a "decent" job represent women's ability and success. Besides, female in China face a great gender discrimination and limitations on their daily life including their political rights, self-development and living standards. 
Unfortunately, when people face these situation as I addressed above, they usually treat it as a family issue or a social issue and have little awareness that it is about gender equality or human right. As a result, both men and women are victims of this gender practice and act as oppressors to the next generation. 
	From the journals I have read, I found that this social construction has been internalized into their nature in the fair long history and it is largely related to Confucian culture. The Confucianism required strict classical training developed through disciplined ritual practice and the strict confinement within the domestic roles of the family in the 18th century. Therefore, women were labeled success being a perfect trifle-dealer and a good husband-helper in the family. Additionally, in the political aspect, it is hard for women to get access to the central political power in a patriarchal society. Besides these invisible constraints on Chinese women, the authority, even with good intentions, established laws claiming women need special protection and certain work categories or positions are unfit for women. 
	After the investigations about women status in China, I admit the improvement of female consciousness and revere the efforts that people made for an equal environment. However, the injustice and inequality still exist, which we cannot deny and ignore. We can also draw a connection with Confucianism to women's liberation, and have a long term to struggle for women and improve women's status in China. 
