Argumentative essay (first draft) 
April 12th,2015 
1038 words 
Should we use paper to write math homework or Webassign to write homework? 
Which is better 
In ten year ago, we couldn't image that we can use the internet to do our homework. The only one way we can used to do our homework was writing on the paper. However, as the technology developed really fast, the online homework has gradually replaced traditional paper homework in different subjects. For me, I thought the most important subject is math, because math is the foundation of many other subjects, such as engineering and computer science. In Purdue University, we use webassign to do some foundation math class homework and we still use paper to do the advanced math class homework. From this phenomenon, I am really curious that which way is the best for math homework. Math homework is the most important part of math studying. 
What is my opinion? 
For my questions, I researched many articles from Purdue online library and Google scholar. At the same time, I interviewed a math TA, who is good at mathematic studying. After these researching questions, I have my own opinion of which way is the best way to do math homework. In my opinion, the online homework is the best way for math homework. 
For me, I care about two aspects. First, the affect of academic studying for students is really important. The biggest value of math homework is helping students do math academic studying better. The second aspect is the benefit for TA and teacher. Which way is more convenient for them. 
After the online researching and interview, I got my answers. First, webassign is really good for our math academic math studying and can help us learn math better. Second, webassign is really convenient for our TA and professors. Now, I want to introduce my arguments which many valuable questions. 
What is the benefit of webassign for student's math studying? 
	I think for math homework, the most important part is the process of answers. From my first researching article " Evaluating the Association Between homework and Achievement in High school science and math", which is written by Maltese, Adam,V,(2012), I got that math homework can help me review the old knowledge and learn the new knowledge. In this article, the author thought the process of answer is really important, because it includes our logic and understanding of math. Only we paid attention to the process of answers, we can get the value of math homework. Before the interview, I thought we just input the answer into the webassign so that we maybe ignore the process of answers. After the interview, my interviewee <name> figures out my problems. He told me that after we submit the homework, webassign will gives us the complete answer of questions. It includes completely correct process of answers. We can use it to check that whether our process of answer is correct or not. The more valuable function is that every questions has own video, so that we can watch the video if we didn't understand the questions. At the same time, it can help us improve our self-studying skills. From my research article and interview, I really agree that webassign is the most efficient way to do the math homework because it is good for our math academic studying. 
What is the benefit of webassign for TA and professors? 
	Except for students, TA and professor are also need webassign. My third article is called "Online applications can save time, paper" which was written by Deinlein, Jennifer, (2012). In this article, the author said that online homework can save TA too much time because they don't need to judge our homework. On the other hand, it saves too much paper. Paper is made of trees, so that online homework can help us protect environment. We know that TA are also students, so that they also have difficult academic studying. They have to paid attention to their own studying. During the interview, I asked <name> whether webassign make TA convenient? His answer is yes. First, webassign helps TA judge the homework so that they can pay more attention to some more difficult questions. They have more time to figure our the questions which we didn't figure out during the recitations. We only have 2 recitations every week, so if they have more time, they can show us deeper questions. For themselves, they have more time to prepare their own academic studying. The submitting process is also convenient. We don't need to carry the paper to the classroom. Online submitting is fast and safe. Only ourselves can see our score. 
So, the online homework was really convenient for both student and TA. 
Conclusion 
	After this research, I can sure that online homework is the best way for math studying. For students, the most important value is academic studying. Online homework can help us improve our answer process, at the same time teach us many studying skills. For TA and professor, it is really convenient for them. They can spend their time on deeper questions and their own academic studying. I hope University can change paper homework to online homework, and can create more change of communication between students and TA. 
Reference 
Maltese, Adam,V,(2012). Ecaluating the Association Between homework and Achievement in High School Science and Math, The High School Journal, 91(1), 52-72. 
Mendicino, M. ,Razzaq, L., Heffernan, N.T. (2009). A Comparison of Traditional Homework to Computer-Supported Homework, Journal of Research on Technology in Education,41(3), 331-359. 
Deinlein, Jennifer, (2012). Online applications can save time, paper, Central Penn Business Journal, 28(46), 17-20. 
