Should teenagers put a lot of efforts into losing weight? 
ENG106I 
Purdue University 
04/13/2015 
	In recent years a healthy lifestyle is becoming more and more popular among young people. It is believed that healthy lifestyle and proper nutrition help to maintain an excellent health and stay in a good spirit. As well as, conversely, an extra weight could cause long-time depressions and negative self-estimation. The problem of overweight is particularly spread among the children and teenagers. They put a lot of effort to lose weight, but often it does not bring positive results. Thus, it follows a very significant question: Should adolescents do their best in order to lose weight? 
	An answer to this question is unambiguously clear. Teenagers should establish proper eating habits and exercise periodically. There are always voices announcing that weight is good and adolescents should simply keep their weight. These people think adolescents should abandon diets and do not consume slimming pills and other not reliable weight-loss methods. However, I don't agree with this. Nowadays, many adolescents are overweight and not healthy indeed. Losing weight will definitely help these overweight teenagers keep a healthy lifestyle and keep away from early disease. Another concept side during the process of loosing weight among the adolescents is weight perception (Bhurtun & Jeewon, 2013, 2). Thereby, all these factors should be taken into consideration in the process of losing weight. 
	Wrong food habits of adolescents are generally caused by environment and contemporary lifestyle. Many teenagers do not have money for a healthy meal or simply do not have time for proper nutrition. The best idea for them seems to be fast food, which helps to save time and money, but instead worsens health and well-being. An illustration of the negative fast food's influence can be the difference between an American and Chinese eating habits. An average Chinese person usually eats just one bowl of rice and a small quantity of other dishes per meal. At the same time, in the United States it is common to consume a large amount of high-calorie food and drink gallons of soda. Consequently, teenagers get used to such eating style their body gets used to the abundance of food. Genetic and biological factors can also cause obesity among the teenagers, but the number of such cases is less than 1 percent (Marshall,1). Accordingly, the main reason of an extra weight among the adolescents is overeating and lack of exercise. 
	Fortunately, nowadays the majority of teenagers understand that an overweight is a huge problem, both for the health and for personal life. They recognize that unhealthy diet leads to various diseases, including heart problems, asthma, diabetes and problems with skeletal system. Beyond the above we usually hear about, being overweight can also affects a person's joints, mood and sleep. Carrying extra weight puts added stress on the body, especially the bones and joints of the legs. In addition, people who are obese are more likely to be depressed and have lower self-esteem. These overweight adolescents can easily feel self-contemptuous and give up exercising and playing sport activities. Fat discrimination is part of the problem. That is why the teenagers want to lose an extra weight. The diversity of loosing-weight methods is impressive. Even the laziest person could find an appropriate way towards a remarkable shape. 
However, everyone has to remember that starvation and exhaustion diets in any case are not allowed. They can result in the loss of several pounds, but the body will become so disable that young person could simply faint one day. Moreover, the significant indicator in the process of losing weight is the family influence. A lot of the weight-losing teenagers noted that their relatives encouraged them to raise their physical activity or to eat better (Lieberman, Robbins, & Terras, 2009, 444). Thereby, process of losing weight should be conscious and independent decision of the teenager. Parents should encourage and advise overweight adolescents to keep a healthy diet and lifestyle rather than push them all the time. Over-warning will probably bring the unexpected results. If parents have negative feelings towards their children, these negative feelings will also be transmitted to adolescents gradually. And adolescents will lose confidence on themselves. 
	To conclude, the only acceptable ways to struggle the obesity among the teenagers are proper nutrition and sport activities. All other methods are harmful to health and their effect will be short-termed. Parents should be patients in advising their overweight children to lose weight and providing helpful guides. Thus, an answer to the question what is more effective - sport or proper nutrition, the best and most effective way to lose extra pounds and maintain an achieved weight is the combination of both. So, the teenagers should definitely apply all their efforts in order to achieve the desired results and enjoy a slim, healthy body. 
