P5d3 
April 20th, 2016 
The advantages and disadvantages of joining student clubs 
On April 11th, 2016, in the University of Maine, Asian Student Association offered campus a "Taste of Asia"; On March 31st, 2016, a student club called Ruff Day at the University of Connecticut introduced animal therapy to campus; On March 29th, 2016, student club in the Northern Arizona University explored "regional landscape to produce academic, personal lessons". When you type in Student Club as keywords, it's hardly surprising to see tons of related latest news on your screen. Obviously, people never move their attention away from student clubs. Some people appreciate its highly offered opportunities to interact with students with various background, others criticize its negative impact, like facilitating bad habits, on students. From my perspective, I believe the merits of student clubs' participation greatly outweigh its demerits and universities should take measures to encourage students to join student clubs. 
Since joining student clubs offers student huge amounts of chances to establish mature interpersonal relationships with members, instructors and even strangers, students are able to learn functional skills, especially communicative skills, in this process. In an interview with Christina Wang who is the director in arts and athletics department in PUCSSA (Purdue Chinese Student and Scholar Association), she cast no doubt on this issue, holding that joining student clubs like PUCSSA (Purdue University Chinese Students and Scholar's Association) did enhance members' communication skills. She compared student clubs as a big company in which members need to communicate with their group leader and any persons they need to contact with. Christina also took herself as an example, "as a director of the student club," she said, "I have to learn how to communicate with my group members, the chairman in PUCSSA and the leaders in other student's organizations, like USA (UKik @ Purdue - Presbyterian Church) and HKSA (Hong Kong Student Association)." Thus, we can draw the conclusion that joining student clubs largely improves students' communicative skills. 
Student clubs' participation can not only improves students' communicative skills, but also cultivate their ability of time managing. According to the tracking survey called SDTLI recorded in the article "Effects of involvement in clubs and organizations on the psychosocial development of first-year and senior college students" by Foubert and Grainger (2006), a random sample of college students are required to complete the SDTLI in their fresh-year, sophomore year, and senior year. Consequently, researchers figured out that involvement in student clubs was greatly in relation with psychosocial development, particularly on a specific aspect of students' establishing and clarifying purpose, educational involvement, career planning and life management. Additionally, <Name> also voted for the positive side. She believed that given five major events each year, members in PUCSSA had to be good at time managing. Taking a single activity planning as an example, members should face a challenge of managing their time among renting activity places, making a budget and rehearsing. More importantly, they also need to balance between studies and working time. Therefore, involvement in student clubs can necessarily boost student's capability of managing time. 
Last but not the least, joining student clubs offers students high exposure to career opportunities. Based on the viewpoint put forward in the article "Education, preparation, vocation" by Mausolf (2006), student clubs participation benefits students' future career mainly in two aspects. Firstly, as what stated in the article, "it is important for students' careers to get involved and have something on their resumes other than the degree". Exactly, students active in student club are more likely to work out an amazing project or to win a price in competition, thanking to accessible chances and support from other members. Secondly, members are closer to internship opportunities than nonmember due to their sense of community among students, interaction with instructors or specialists in specific fields. In other words, even if two students are at the same level, the professor is more likely to write a recommendation letter for the one whom he is familiar with. So joining student clubs rewards students with an awesome beginning of career path by both embellishing their resume and providing opportunities for achieving referring letter. 
As the rule of the student clubs is that freshmen have to be led and fostered by senior students who have more experience in club's work, student clubs are sometimes blamed for spoiling senior students because the possibility of leading to disregarding rules and being arrogant to the inferiors. Admittedly, this phenomenon does exist, but I think it is highly related to leaders' personality. There are, after all, lots of student clubs' leaders who are authorized power but respect their inferiors. In addition, some people also argue that student clubs cultivate bad habits such as drinking, smoking and skipping classes. Inevitably, some student clubs recruit students who have bad influences on others. However, it can never be an appropriate reason to discourage students from participating in student clubs. Undoubtedly, student clubs are more often than not beneficial to students in multiple aspects. If students are more thoughtful when choosing student clubs, they are less likely to be spoiled or bought bad. 
To put all into a nutshell, while there are several critical voices towards student clubs in the society, the pros of student clubs participation actually far outweigh its cons since it improves student's communicative skills, time-managing ability and provide them considerable career opportunities. Therefore, I believe that it's a rational choice to join student clubs and it's significant for universities to advocate a great participation to student clubs. 
Reference 
Foubert, J. D., & Urbanski, L. A. (2006). Effects of Involvement in Clubs and Organizations on the Psychosocial Development of First-Year and Senior College Students: NASPA Journal, 43(1). 
Mausolf, A. (2014). Education, Preparation, Vocation (Part One): The Benefits of Participation in Recreation Undergraduate Student Clubs: Parks & Recreation, IPNR. 
