The reason why pharmacy area should be develop 
The pharmacy products are familiar to almost every people because no one can never get sick. When people get sick, they just directly go to doctors and let doctors figure out what kind of medicine are suitable for them. However, are those people know how those medicine they take was developed or why thse medicine can cure their illness? In my opinion, the pharmacy should be developed even faster than before todeal with the serious health problem happened in this world. Howevver, some people think the opposite way with me because they do not think there are such important issue happened. Today, I will use my research before and my interview with someone working in pharmacy company to provemy idea about the pahrmacy area need to be developed. 
Firstly, some people said that people should not worry about the problems like aging, obesity or even super virus. They have their own reason that the aging problem happened since a long time ago, it do not have such serious effect to the society. Also, the obesity is what people choose to do, if people do not make changes, the problem will never be solved. As fot the super virus, it have the lowest threat because it only happened in several smaill area. However, through the article "New challenge to health: the threat of virus infection" written by Geoffery L. Smith. The writter claimed that when the virus have the drug resistent, "it required the sythesis of several hundreds novel molecular before a medicine candidate was identify."(page 325) This condition also happened in another terrifying disease called HIV which is not yet have a cure todeal with it. If we do not start to do research with the super virus, it will become an unsolved problem like HIV. There is also an article named " What is the current and future aging proble" written by Shin-ichi Ohshima have a disagreement with those people thiink aging is not a serious problem. In this article, the auther claimed that" if the health of aged people was totally covered by medicine, medical costs for aged people would increase endlessly"(page 2) which point out two problems. One problem is aging problem really have some burden to the society, second problem is the pharmacy area is not mature enough because the price of medicine is pretty expensive to most people. This is also the reason why the pharmacy area need to be developed. As fot the odesity, according to the article "Obesity" written by Kathlenn Y. Wolin and Jennifer M Petrelli, "Antiobesity medications iinfluence weight loss by reducing patient's overall caloric intake"(page 79) which point out that the antiobesity medicines are effective to people who have obesity. However, those kind of medicine now someyimes have some negative effect to patients as well. So, with the development of the technology in pharmacy area, the products to cure obesity will be more effective and without bad effect. All of those article can prove my thought about the pharmacy area need more development. 
Secondly, the interview I made with Mrs. Kelly who is working in Boehringer-ingelheim can prove my point as wll. Actually, some people mentioned an idea that the pharmacy area can develop so fast is only because the new conception called bio-pharmaceutical. After the research about the bio-pharmaceutical can not develop as smooth as recent then years, the fast development in the pharmacy should stop. Indeed, the bio-pharmaceutical is the important factor to push the pharmacy area development go further. However, even the bio-pharmaceutical start to become difficult to develop, the development in the pharmacy area will not stop. Because even the bio-pharmaceutical becomethe important to research now, the traditional area still have more than 70 percent of products. Also, we only know about the most easiest application in the bio-pharmaceutical, the more complicated level definately will take a long time for research. On the other hand, Mrs. Kelly claimed that even though the fast development will end in ten years, it did not means the development in pharmacy will stop. She said that there were still huge number of disease did not have a cure to deal with, so the researchs will definately go on. Also, Mrs. Kelly told me that after the Human Genome Project finished, it give pharmacy area one new development chance. With the familiar with human gene, the development cure of different disease that we did not now how to fix before become possible now because we know more clearly about the function of different part of gene. Mrs Kelly claimed that with the those knowdege, scientists can figure out how to deal with some disease caused by gene deficient. 
Thirdly, some people think that those big pharmacy start to decrease the research of new product because the decrese of reture of assets will make the develop in pharmacy area stop. After I did some research on the internet, I found out it is true about the decrease of research. However, I do not agree with the point that this will make the development in pharmacy area stop. The reason is most big pharmacy companies are in developed countries. However, most developing countries also want to develop their own technology in pharmacy. In most case, the technology of pharmacy products are never be traded because they are the most important part in a pharmacy company and it took so much resources. So, the company in the developing countries need to develop their own products. Also, a lot of pharmacy company in developing countries have the support of goveronment. Based on those factors, even those big pharmacy companies decrease the product research, it will not make the pharmacy area stop. 
All in all, according to those articles, the interview and my own research on internet. There are a lot of examples can prove my idea about the pharmacy area should be develop well. Even though there are also of disadvantage, the phamacy is still a basic need for people. 
