4/9//2016 
Argumentative Assignment #Draft1 
					Argumentative Essay 
There are many people in the world that drink before they are legal. "Although drinking by persons under the age of 21 is illegal, people aged 12 to 20 years drink 11% of all alcohol consumed in the United States." (Facts Sheet, 2016). The thing that people don't understand is that if you are not properly educated on alcohol and the effects of it could put you in danger. People are not taught the repercussions of alcohol one of them being that it can become an addiction. The American government thinks that 21 should be the legal drinking in age; for example is Spain and other countries the legal drinking age is 18. 
	When I was doing my research I learned a lot about underage drinking especially when I interviewed my advisor <Name>. She told me that she learned a little bit about this topic in school when she was in middle school and the local police officer came in to talk about drug and alcohol abuse. This was really helpful for her and for all of the other students because they got to learn about it at a young age. She used this knowledge going forward in her life. I personally learned a lot about this topic when I researched the repercussions of underage drinking. One of the biggest things that stood out to me was that in "2013 the Youth Risk Behavior Survey found that among high school students, during the past 30 days 35% drank some amount of alcohol 21% binge drank, 10% drove after drinking alcohol, and 22% rode with a driver who had been drinking alcohol." (Facts Sheet, 2016). This statistic is crazy because it is about high school students. Our society today is all about being older than we actually are. One of the reasons people binge drink is due to stress, the use binge drinking as a way to forget about their problems. 
"According to the Underage Drinking Facts Sheets, the earlier you start to drink the more likely you are to be dependent on it later in life. For example, the people that start drinking before the age of 14 they are going to be 50% dependent on alcohol later in life. Also if you start drinking at the legal age limit of 21 you are going to most likely be only 10% dependent on alcohol. This shows that alcohol can become addictive. If you start drinking when you are 14 that means that you are drinking for seven years before you are legal; your body will be used to it so you start to depend on it more. This can also be dangerous because it can affect your organs. If you drink a lot of alcohol your liver can shut down. 
	If you are 18 and you go to Spain you are able to drink even though you are from the United States. They have their drinking age at 18 because when you are 18 you are considered an adult so you should have independence and responsibility. The Spanish government knows that the kids are going to drink around the age of 18 so they have made it legal to drink. More young Spanish people drink alcohol but they don't binge drink because of the cultural and societal norms. I have noticed at Purdue that there are a lot of people that drink even though they are not legal. I think the United States should change their drinking age to 18 because you are considered an adult and you are responsible for all of the choices that you make. If you set the drinking age at 21 adolescents will still drink because they want feel cool. But if you set the drinking age to 18 they won't start drinking as early because they get to start drinking at a young age. 
In conclusion, based on the researches about the articles and the interview with <Name>, I think that we should lower the drinking age from 21 to 18, have more education on alcohol, and understand the repercussions of drinking alcohol at a young age. If we lower the drinking age we must educate everyone properly. They need to know that alcohol can cause you to become addicted and that it can be dangerous. If you start drinking at a young age it causes you to become an alcoholic in the future so you must be careful. 
