GMF is Safe 
I still remember my most favorite vegetable was tomato when I was four years old. There were only big tomato in the market at that time. About five years later, my family moved to Qingdao, a city in Shandong Province. I found a new kind of tomato in supermarket, it smaller than the original one and crispier, some sweet taste in mouth after ate it. Thus I indeed loved this new cate. I did not know this was not a natural species until I learned genetically modified food (GMF) in primary high school. GMF is a kind of new food which be transferred gene from natural organisms to get the specific characters. I had never queried the safety of GMF until three years ago some newspapers published the negative information about GMF. Because GMF related to our health, I decided to find out whether the GMF is safety. Then I realized my worry was redundantly. The GMF is safe. 
First of all, I find an article in < The Washington Post >. In this paper, the author lists 5 points that we need to accept GMF. I pick out a paragraph which can prove the security of GMF ideally. "Billions of subjects eat GMOs almost exclusively: livestock. Researchers from the University of California at Davis looked at health data on more than 100 billion animals and found no ill effects - in fact, no effects at all - attributable to a switch from non-GMO feed to GMO." (Haspel, T. (2014)) (4th paragraph) In this sentence, he gives us a realistic instance. The agriculture department of University of California at Davis is top 5 in United States. Thus the data from UC Davis is convincing. The most important point is the number of data- more than 100 billion. It's amazing that we cannot find one example against the safety of GMF! In summary, Haspel claimed that research data shows GMF has no negative influence to experimental animals. 
	Recently, many states of United States are "fighting" on labeling GMF. But Haspel thinks labeling is unnecessary because GMOs are safe. There is his explanation: "If GMOs were dangerous, the FDA wouldn't label them, it would ban them. The items on our food labels run the gamut and include substances that pose a risk to some people (peanuts), substances that public health authorities recommend we should all limit (salt) and lots of ingredients with no health implications at all. There are indications of how a product is made (orange juice from concentrate) and where it comes from (country of origin). Some vitamins and nutrients are listed, others aren't. There is no grand unifying theory of what goes on a label. It's all case-by-case." (Haspel, T. (2014)) (6th paragraph)FDA (U.S Food Administration) does not need to label GMF. Because current regulations have not stipulate everything on the label. Like some people have allergy to peanuts or how many salt added to food. Although there are a large amount of information on the label, like how did the products been produced and the producing area, there is no explicit principle of label. Thus FDA does not need to label GMF. 
The attracting point for me is his reverse thinking. When most people are arguing whether labeling GMF label on the GM products, the author are thinking the reason why FDA have not labeled the label. I have the same idea with him. FDA would prohibit GMF if it does harmful to human rather than focus on whether label GMF. The current label has include integrated information. Thus we have no reason to ask FDA to build a new label regulation. It is a powerful standpoint to certify the safety of GMF. 
Here is an article which tests 55 patients who allergic to food by testing combination of Ig E antibody with Cry3Bb1. Ig E combine with Cry3Bb1 specifically means that GMF is harmful to human. Reversely, GMF has no bad affect to human. (1. Cry3Bb1: An insecticidal protein produced by Bacillus thuringiensis that kills corn rootworm larvae. 2. Ig E: Immunoglobulin E is a class of antibody that has been found only in mammals. It exists in blood. The concentration of Ig E will increasing if human touch or eat something they allergic to. 3. MON863: a kind of GM corn invented by Monsanto Company) "In conclusion, Ig E antibodies from corn allergy patients and patients with various food allergies did not bind specifically to recombinant Cry3Bb1. The Ig E antibodies from the corn allergy patients yielded the same binding profiles in relation to extracts of MON863 and of non-GM corn. MON863 is as safe as non-GM corn from the standpoint of no specific binding between Ig E antibodies and recombinant Cry3Bb1." (Osamu, N. (2010)) (P.306-311) The Ig E antibodies do not combine with Cry3Bb1 especially. The reaction from corn allergy patients to GM corn and non-GM corn is the same. It indicates that GM corn is as safe as non-GM corn. 
This is a research paper about GMF in Japan. Food allergy is an important indicator to show the safety of GMF. Cry3Bb1 protein appears in GMF and some people may react allergy to Cry3Bb1. MON863 is a representativeness GMF and it can represent mostly GMF. The research tests that the reactions of corn allergy patients to GM corn and non GMF are same. Thus this is a precise material to prove the safety of GMF. 
Here is another powerful argument to prove the safety of GMF: "Every major international science body in the world has reviewed multiple independent studies-in some cases numbering in the hundreds-in coming to the consensus conclusion that GMO crops are as safe as or safer than conventional or organic foods."(Entine, J. (2014))(Countdown third paragraph) Several primary institutions researching on GMF in the world summery that GMF as same as the non - GMF in safety after they analyzed great number of objects. I think that the main point in this citation is "major international science institutions in the world". Because they have authority in science domain. This citation confirm the safety of GMF. 
	In the same article, Entine also states that "The paper's conclusion is unequivocal: there is no credible evidence that GMOs pose any unique threat to the environment or the public's health. The reason for the public's distrust of GMOs lies in psychology, politics and false debates." (Entine, J. (2014))(The last paragraph) He means that we cannot find the definite evidences to prove GMF may cause unique dangerous to human and environment. Some people do not trust in GMF due to their mentalities and the influence of public opinions. There was two factories made nickel from nickel ore in our city Qingdao (in Shandong province, China). The newer factory used a new method to subtracted nickel, this method was more efficiency, more environment protect and more safe than the old factory's method. But the old factory use the source of newspaper to spread rumors that the new one was the primary contributor to haze. The new factory closed end. Thus I really believe some unwarrantable competition in business to slander GMF. 
Some people may learned on the biology class that the modified gene may drift away by wind through spore and cause gene pollution. And this new, strange gene may flowed into human by respiratory system. But background is that the gene been put in is a kind of natural gene. Thus if we do not modified this gene to crop, it can transfer to everywhere by its own spore in the same way. Moreover, there might inaccurate duplication during gene transcription. No report shows us the wrong duplication gene cause dangerous to human until now. Commissioner Anne Glover also said, "There is no substantial case of any adverse impact on human health, animal health or environmental health, so that's pretty robust evidence, and I would be confident in saying that there is no more risk in eating GMO food than eating conventionally farmed food." (Anne, G. (2012) Page.11-2)She shows us that human eating GMF has no negative affect reports, thus GMF is as safe as traditional non-GMF. 
"The editors at Nature Biotechnology argue that evidence is not the problem. The issue is that, so far, people have no reason to believe GM foods are being created for their benefit." (White. M (2013) Page75-6) some people does do not believe the safety of GMF now because they do not know what benefit GMF can give them. Let me show you what you can get from GMF. First of all, farmers growing GM cotton easier than growing traditional cotton. Before GM-cotton invented, cotton bollworm was the biggest trouble to cotton growing. Especially between 1994 and 1996, cotton bollworm reducing output of Heilongjiang and Jilin Province even to no output. Then the government imported insect-resistant cotton to solve this disaster. Scientists moved insect-resistant gene from special bacteria to cotton. When cotton bollworm eating GM cotton, the modified gene can product protein which can prevent digestion of insect and make them die due to hunger. Farmer easier than before cause they do not need to use pesticide on insect-resistant cotton. It protects our health indirectly. Secondly, we can get more nutrition from GMF than traditional food. According to statistics, about six hundred and seventy thousand children under five years old died due to lacking of Vitamin A. Syngenta Company add beta carotene to rice. The beta carotene can be converted to Vitamin A by our digestive system. Not only GMF has not negative affect to us, but also it can save millions children's life. 
Although mostly people regard GMF as safety food, some people hold the opposite view: "Participants said that potential consequences of GMO contamination include loss of organic certification and markets, and could be very costly to them. Although none of the participants had yet lost certification due to GMO contamination, many were aware of farmers whose crops had been rejected by buyers due to GMO contamination." Members thought that hidden corollaries of GMF's gene pollution are forfeiting organic certification and markets. Some members' products had been rejected due to gene pollution of GMF, albeit their certification had not been confiscated. Gene pollution of GMF does exist. However, the gene which be modified existed in the nature since lots of years ago. Gene pollution is a normal phenomenon in natural world. Thus gene pollution is not a reason which influence the health of human. 
	As more and more GMF used as fodder for livestock, people's visions assemble to GM-livestock. But we need not worry about this. "No study has revealed any differences in the nutritional profile of animal products derived from GE-fed animals. Because DNA and protein are normal components of the diet that are digested." (Entine, J. (2014)) (P. 1) (GE is a kind of GMF.) He tells us that the nutrition of GM-animal and non GM-animal is same because according the data, scientists cannot find out any abnormal product from our digestion. Thus we can overturn this incorrect hypothesis. 
He also states that "We now have a large set of data, both experimental and observational, showing that genetically modified feed is safe and nutritionally equivalent to non-GMO feed. There does not appear to be any health risk to the animals, and it is even less likely that there could be any health effect on humans who eat those animals." (Entine, J. (2014)) (P. 2) The GMF has no risk to animal thus it impossible make any hazards to human. We need to believe the data from experiments rather than guess without any reasons and get needlessly panic. 
In this paper, this first reference proves that GMF has no harmful to livestock. The second reference means that we do not need to label the GMF because it is safe, thus we do not need to separate it even if it has same safety level as normal crops. And Osamu verified GMF is safe through the experiment of Cry3Bb1. Although some people still cannot accept GMF or have some negative suspensions to GMF, it is due to lies in psychology, politics and false debates. In conclusion, GMF is safe to us. 
