Setting Up Specific Language Courses to Help International Students 
Once entering universities in the US, many international students may face problems of adapting the new language atmosphere. In order to help international students improve English levels in both academic areas and social areas, I argue that it is important to set up specific courses that aims at enhance English abilities of international students. 
According to survey in the article "Academic Difficulties" written by Fangfang Gao, many non-native speakers in the campus in Hawaii have trouble in understanding contents of course and it is hard for them to communicate with native speakers sometimes. If specific language courses are set up, they have more opportunities to practice and correct errors in writing. Take Boston University for an instance, Boston University's Intensive English Language Program (IEP) offering international students courses in English as a Second Language. In some students' opinion, such specific courses shorten accommodation period of international students and offer preparation for them. In contrast, in situation that international students who do not attend specific language courses jump into a new linguistic context, may face challenges in acquiring knowledge due to language barrier. They may not grasp all the contents in the classes and make many mistakes when they are writing which proves that language courses do help international student improve language skills. 
Particularly for oral English, practice undoubtablely works, but Mrs. Robinson claimed that there is a common mistake international students would make is mixing up similar words when practice. That is the reason specific language courses should be set up. In Mrs. Robinson's opinion, it may not be easy for international students to find out the shortcomings in both writing English and oral English, in the process of attending language courses, they will get improved and discover the mistakes when utilizing English gradually. Therefore, combine attending specific language courses with practicing is much more efficient than practicing blindly. 
When it comes to if it is necessary for universities to set up language courses, nevertheless, some may disagree with the point of view. They may state that students will get improved in the process of practice and they will mainstream themselves into linguistic context. Practice do play a role in the process of learning, however, we should not underestimate the benefit of language courses for non-native. According to my advisor, Mrs. Robinson's opinion, different student has differing English levels and they makes various kinds of mistakes. In the paper "Language Challenges Faced by International Graduate Students in the United States", researcher Kuo Ya-Hui stated that though some of international students meet the requirement of some standard examinations, such as GRE, TOEFL, which not means their English levels are good enough to meet the demand of studying in the American universities. That is why accumulating specific words in different fields and understanding American culture helps boost English skills. Therefore, specific language courses help international students adapt to campus life better and in this process they are more likely to find out the shortcoming of their language learning, so they may improve faster with the help of specific courses. 
Briefly speaking, I argue that setting up specific courses is an efficient way to accommodate international students boost English abilities in social areas and academic areas. With the help of specific language courses, international students will accommodate to campus life in the US better and it is more likely for them to get success in studying. 
