Student' problems ind dorms can be solved or not ! 
! 
As far as my knowledge is concerned, lots of freshmen in universities would confront with many problems when they move into dorms for the first time. People's views on problems living in school residences vary from person to person. Some hold that because of diversity of personally and different living habits, It seems impossibly that people are able to remove these issues. However, others believe that some methods are able to reduce the conflicts efficiently. From my point of view, I believe that students' problems at dorms can be solved as soon as possible. Students are able to take some efficient measures to deal with the issues. Moreover, the officials of the college can really help freshmen figure out the difficulties at dorms.! 
Firstly, students can reduce the conflicts with their roommates by themselves. As we know, most roommates conflicts come from the result of miscommunication or, in some cases, a total lack of communication. For example, if you roommates like to sing loudly at midnight which behaviors seems influence the quality of your sleep. However, you choose to tolerant and keep quiet rather than talk to your roommates, the conflict between you and your roommates will become widen. However, compare with the first altitude,If you start to notice these things rather than ignore them. A problem is addressed early, there is a better chance of it being worked out amicably. If you can communicate effectively, it will be much easier to develop a comfortable living environment for yourself and your roommates. 
Furthermore, Thus, when student choose to take several measures, some problems can be solved as soon as possible. ! 
Also, executives in school like Residence assistance have useful method and resources to help students solve problems. For example, when you in difficult discussions. Such as roommate conflicts. It is very helpful to have an unbiased third party to help mediate the discussion. At this time, RA plays a significant role to coordinate. Furthermore, if you are disturbed by the noises which come from neighbor's room at midnight. You think the sanitation of the toilets is unsatisfied you can talk to resident officials. They have responsibly to deal with the weakness. Thus, through the residence of school officials, some problems which students face in dorms can be solved or reduce. ! 
However, admittedly, sometimes communication could not play a positive roles on roommates relations. If you talk to your roommates directly when something is bothering you, your roommates may feel embarrassed even anxious. Obviously, it can not achieve the target even become worse. ! Also, some problems the office of school residence could not solve like some students' "wired" h. For instance, in my floor, some student do like to flush after using toilet. RA have no idea about this bad behavior Therefore, some problems student face at dorms could not be dissolved.! 
In conclusion, students' problems they face at dorms can be solved as soon as possible if they try to figure out. Students are able to take some efficient measures to deal with the issues. Also, the officials of school have some useful method and resources to help the student who are living in dorms.! 
