The magical and controversial effects of the internet on Chinese students 
The internet is known a very common technology as multiple tools to help human beings to communicate, gather newest information and entertain. Although many argue that the internet brought us more negative impacts for us in overall, I insist to hold my view of more positive side because never before had I seen such a boost in clarity, success, and productivity in our own work. 
To begin with my argument, I want to speak something from views of my "opponents". They hold a very controversial view against me by voicing that the internet is bad and caused a lot of unexpected negative effects which we should not experience. For instance, Chinese students like to go to internet caf where it is not allowed for people who are under 18, they use the internet to cheat in class, and the information on the internet distract them from learning to a large degree, according to Mia D.G 2014, "China rings in the changes by forcing students to put their mobiles in giant classroom phone holders before lessons." 
These effects without doubts, do exist in our society and I cannot deny the existence of these facts, however, what I would like to argue is that these facts they provided only blocked us into the limited sights of the negative side of the internet. In contrast, I do not think many Chinese students frequently use cell phones frequently in class for other non-learning purposes and are reported on the news which sometimes mislead people. So some people took that as a common behavior which in my opinion is completely not a wise decision. At least, from my knowledge about surrounding schools and the schools in my province, I would say the phenomena mentioned above rarely being seen on my sight. 
Another explanation can be used to argue my "opponents" is that the internet is merely a tool as any other common tool that we commonly use today. Didn't we say the TV influenced us negatively pretty much? Imagining back to several years ago when TV started being populated, it distracted us a lot at the first place by providing various funny advertisement, dramas, talk shows and so on. Again, there were the "same" several people disagree with the TV itself and denied its positive effects by arguing TV is bad and should be banned according to Emuna B 2006 "Distracted by Television". How about now? We all accepted, and don't we? Therefore, the internet as well as the TV is a modern high-tech product that some people who lack of future vision wouldn't accept at the first place but in fact we all in agreement that the internet has more positive effects than its negative impacts. 
What are the positive effects that convinced me to hold my view so much against the negative ones? So obvious answers to question are these: the internet improved students' efficiency on study, the internet broaden students' vision in many aspects and the internet brought students a new way of entertaining. With the help of the internet, students can search so much information that related to their study like Math, Physics, History, Geography, Art and etc. Once the needed information Chinese students gathered, they can take advantage of it and combine it into their work. For instance, if I want to research about the geographical distribution of China, I do not even need to purchase an actual map of my county. The only thing I do is to type "China Map" in google search bar, and the searched results will pop up with many options that I can download for free for me. Also, the different results offer me diverse patterns of these electronic maps which allow me to browse further knowledge of China Map, like the weather of geographic distribution of China, and the terrain distribution of China. 
For doing things for fun on the internet, I believe most of students already have plenty of games installed in their i Phones, i Pods, and i Pads. And I also believe that a lot of students have their personal apps that saved hundreds of music and movies. If one day you ask a question for them: what do you think and how you will feel if people don't have the internet? Finally, I believe that feel desperate they will by saying they are going to die in response to your question. 
The internet plays an important tool in the whole society, and it might not be accepted by some parents who usually hold old opinions at the first place. Well, as time goes by, and as the internet become fully covered on this planet, the positive effects of the internet such as it envisioned us, improved our efficiency of study, and helped to entertained us will finally be wide accepted. According to the results from my interviewee <name> personal communication, April 14th 2016, negative view orientated people need to have broader cognition by reading books and communicating with more people. In this way, they will see my argument is correct finally. So ironically speaking, the negative speaker will probably end up switching to my side by making a long clapping. 
