April 13, 2016 
Draft #1 
There have been many arguments over benefits of going to college. Some people demonstrate that it may be waste of both money and time for going to college; so instead if going to college, it will be better if they spend their times to develop themselves. However, there are much more benefits for going to college in a variety of aspects such as social life, wages, independency, responsibilities and many more. 
A large scale of social network is one of the benefits that people can earn from going to college. Adults say that a big part of their network comes from college. Another benefit is that students can enhance their independency through college life. Being away from the comfortable zone is going to lead students to become more responsible for their life. During high school, parents took care of them; however, it is themselves who can take care of. That being said, they will grow their independency and responsibilities that they will be able to utilize those skills in the outside of college. Also, the article form College Atlas shows that a college degree also has a very positive impact on an individual's written and verbal communication skills. Their chances of meeting a large number of people will improve their communication skills. It is very valuable skill they can improve and will be useful in the future. 
Higher wages for people with a bachelor's degree is another proven statement of going to college. Statistically, the wages go down by education degrees. People with a college degree or higher degree will earn the most in their jobs than people with only high school diploma. Also, Job stability is higher for people with college degree. People with a college or higher level education degree will be unlikely to experience unemployment. According to U.S. News & World Report, the unemployment rate among college graduates is substantially lower than the unemployment rate among employees with only a high school diploma. 
A large number of people change what they want to do in the future. College can be a place where students can think deeply about their future and consider again about their future. There are many cases that people get confusion if the major they are pursuing is what they want to continue to pursue in the future. Having more time to think about their future, they will have more satisfaction for their jobs. Also, people with college degree have more choices for choosing their jobs because they can enter both jobs that require a college degree and high school diploma whereas people with only high school diploma have choices of choosing jobs that require high school diploma. It may be the case that people with no college degree will not be able to get a job that interests them. According to Elizabeth Fuller (2010) , in 2008, about 60 percent of people who had attended college - whether or not they'd completed a degree - reported that they were very satisfied with their jobs. 
Although I have written above about the benefits of going to college, there would be some people still thinking that it is not necessary to get a college degree. They may think it is too expensive to attend 4-year College. However, the expenses they have paid will get back to them comparing with people with only high school diploma because it has proven that people with a college degree earn more wages than people with only a high school diploma. 
In conclusion, the sources and reasons I have provided above supports idea that attending college is beneficial for many people. Granted, it may be the case that in some situations, going to 4-years of college is just a waste of time. Nonetheless, such assertions do not necessarily detract from the strength of the thesis; the reason and logic underlying the aforementioned arguments are sufficient to strongly support that people should attend college for their benefits for a variety of reasons. 
