Put a Myth to Rest 
Harsh winter is coming, most of us conceivably are unwilling to leap out of our cozy bed bright and early for whatever reasons and, more dramatically, few of gentlemen determined to sacrifice their shaving time by stealth to keep staying in bed little longer. They rationalized their acts with a widespread statement: frequent shaving will facilitate the growth of beard. Originally, I was not skeptical about this statement because it was supported by my living experiences: I still remember that when I touched my father's beard after he finished shaving, it felt denser. Meanwhile, plenty of peers also argue that it is an objectively existing certainty that there are more beards on their face after shaving their beard. Interestingly enough, the thought that shaving can boost the growth of beard, had further impacted the way in which women combat with their body hair on limbs such as their leg hair for the purpose of beauty; they tend to lather depilatory cream on their legs, instead of using a piece of blade to scrape their skins for fear the shaving result may backfire. 
The question is, however, if shaving can really accelerate the growth rate of our body hair, why should there be so many unfortunate hairless individuals in the world? On the contrary, if shaving is unable to stimulate the body hair to germinate, why should there be so many adolescents ending up having big beards? This paradoxical problem consequently propelled me to study the scientific principles behind the growing pattern of human beings' body hair. Based on a systematic research, a lot of factual evidence including the feedback from an expert and a variety of prestigious bibliographies, clearly show that shaving has nothing to do with the growth speed and the texture of body hair. 
If shaving, according to varying scientific proofs, is an irrelevant variable, we have to find out the fatal defect of the above paradoxical problem (it is actually a sophistry) that shaving can affect our hair in many ways. From the internet I learned that an answerer intending to prove the incorrectness of a paradoxical saying has to explain the saying itself from theoretical angle and superficial angle. In other word, he/she must be eloquent to elaborate why this paradox is theoretically impossible and superficially misunderstood. In what follows, I will introduce the root causes and immediate causes of hair growth, and utilize them to explain why shaving boosts our body hair or beard growth is actually a self-evident illusion. 
Initially, let's pay attention to the root causes that fundamentally determine the growing pattern of our body hair. Professor Bridges offered a lot of assistances for my interview report, discounting the opinion that we can arbitrarily speed our body hair growing rhythms up simply by shaving it. He recounted a series of academic discoveries in which certain biological principles were involved. Our hair, according to the professor, regardless of whether it is body hair or beard, is mostly constituted by a sort of dead protein named keratin. As hair itself is dead, its growing speed will never be changed, just like lumber cut from a tree. Can a lifeless substance continue to grow or grow in a speedier way simply by being cut? Obviously not! 
In addition, he further mentioned that something like our hair and fingernails, which are formed by keratin could be categorized as lifeless human tissues. Those tissues were thought to be under the control of other living organs. Specifically, hair follicles, which are a kind of tiny organ from which our body hair springs up, are able to command the growing stage of body hair including withering and prosperity. Shaving, as a sort of method to whisk away a plethora of body hair on skin surfaces, apparently cannot modify the internal structure of hair follicles. Coincidentally, in the 1920s', a first-of-its-kind academic article had concerned an experiment intending to research the relationship between shaving and hair growth. Lynfield and Macwilliams (1920) finally found that the duration in which our body hair grew quickest happened at the moment when human beings' body hair were at the stage of immaturity. Furthermore, this unique growing rule hinges on biological signals emitted from hair follicles. It is thus quite reasonable for us to infer that hair follicles are like a command center to control all kinds of activities related to our body hair growth. Hence, our hair will not deviate from its original growing tempo with shaving. 
In short, these are scientific evidence backing why shaving is theoretically impossible to modify the growing pattern of our body hair and beard. Now let's focus on some immediate causes that can influence the growth of body hair, and figure out how do these immediate causes beguiled our perceptions, namely why our paradox is superficially misunderstood by people. 
The first one that ought to be mentioned is sexual hormone. As Winkler (1993) and Chritiansen (1993) conclude: "The correlations between body hair development and sex hormone levels were highly significantly positive." (Winkler & Chritiansen, 1993, p. 157) When I consulted the professor about the reason why our beard will be denser after shaving, he immediately noted that there is a typical sexual hormone we should really heed called testosterone. Testosterone is a special kind of male hormone secreted from testicles, which gives rise to the formation of male characteristics. Let's say, the boys' Adam's apples (a marked bulge in the vicinity of larynx) will be bigger and bigger; another perfect example is the appearance of beard. As boys grow up, the total amount of testosterone in their body will increase constantly until he completely turns into an adult. "The first shaving in our life only happened during our adolescences when natural hormonal fluctuations in our body start to cause the development of our facial hair", he observed. It is therefore the incremental effect of the amount of sexual hormone in our body rather than shaving that leads us to believe that shaving is a "change maker" for our beard. 
Meanwhile, there are still some people claiming that beard and body hair will be harder after shaving. Maron (2014), the author of "Fact or Fiction? If You Shave, Your Hair Will Come Back Thicker." explicitly noted that there is no doubt that hair will be harder after being shaved, but this fact has nothing to do with shaving. Maron (2014) used a vivid metaphor to get this phenomenon straight: "A human hair shaft is like javelin that tapers at the end. So when a razor slices away the tip, it may appear that the remaining hair is thicker or darker than it was before the cut." (Maron, 2014). Judging from her words, it is not sophisticated to find that it is the physical property of objects that ultimately leads us to feel that beard will be darker and thicker after shaving. Imagine a pair of chopsticks. As we consecutively exert our strengths at the middle of chopsticks to halve them, then continue to try to halve a bundle of truncated chopsticks, it will obviously become harder and harder to break them off with the length of chopsticks get shorter and shorter. That is the reason as to why we feel our beard will be very stubbly or hard after shaving. 
The third cause is a series of undesirable environmental factors. The reason why hair looks slicker after shaving is that it hasn't already been exposed to sunlight for a long period of time, according to Scanavez, Silveria, and Joekes (2002). As time goes by, our hair will gradually lose the gloss. It turns out that the nemesis of our hair quality is ultraviolet-rays, which would induce damages upon our hair. Later, our hair will be yellower compared with the newborn hair. Of course, some other factors such as drying and combing can also wreak havoc on our hair quality. In short, although looks slicker, the image that hair will be darker than it was before shaving is just a temporary phenomenon, and couldn't last forever. Thus, to a great extent, we are just cheated by a transient phenomenon so that we wrongly assert that the color of our body hair and beard will be darker after shaving. 
In summary, owing to the theoretical impossibility and the superficial misunderstanding of the sophistry, the whole story describing the aftermath of shaving is just a beautiful illusion. While it is true that to take our beard, which is easy to be observed, as a reference to judge the correlation between shaving and growing pattern of our body hair is a clever choice, it is equally true that we should not directly deduce a general principle which can be used to analyze all problems regarding our body hair only from a narrow phenomenon. 
So ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put the myth that shaving can affect the growth and the texture of our body hair to rest. 
