Safety of GMF 
Safety of GMF 
I recognize an interesting phenomenon in million years ago about human beings lived in primitive society. At the beginning, the society controlled by women because they could pick fruits from trees. These fruits were the main source of food for people. As time goes on, people found that they could get more food from animals, but women did not have enough strength to kill animals as men. Thus the whole society controlled by men as the main source of food changing. This phenomenon tells us that the food is the fundamental of society since million years ago. As the promotion of technology, scientists can move a special gene to crop to create a new crop - genetically modified food (GMF). During the development of civilization, people pay more attention to the safety of food especially on GMF. Although someone might query the safety of GMF, I just want to say GMF does not harmful to us. 
It cannot be denied that I was one of "someone" wonder that is the GMF really safe? The first time I heard about "GMF" was from the textbook in primary middle school. I learned that GMF is a kind of food be moved specific gene to express the particular character. But the funny thing that the first time I feared to GMF was due to my father. To be the truth, my father did not know what GMF is. But he surfed internet and found that the small tomato was GMF and might cause several diseases to human. Then he told me this information. This is the first time I heard about the negative influence about GMF. But this doubt was solved soon, my teacher told me that GMF was food modified one or several special gene to change characters directed. Thus only if the modified gene is healthy, the GMF is benefit to us. 
Some people may learned on the biology class that the modified gene may drift away by wind through spore and cause gene pollution. And this new, strange gene may flowed into human by respiratory system. But background is that the gene been put in is a kind of natural gene. Thus if we do not modified this gene to crop, it can transfer to everywhere by its own spore in the same way. Moreover, there might inaccurate duplication during gene transcription. No report shows us the wrong duplication gene cause dangerous to human until now. Commissioner Anne Glover also said, "There is no substantial case of any adverse impact on human health, animal health or environmental health, so that's pretty robust evidence, and I would be confident in saying that there is no more risk in eating GMO food than eating conventionally farmed food." She shows us that human eating GMF has no negative affect reports, thus GMF is as safe as traditional non-GMF. 
"The editors at Nature Biotechnology argue that evidence is not the problem. The issue is that, so far, people have no reason to believe GM foods are being created for their benefit." Some people does do not believe the safety of GMF now because they do not know what benefit can GMF give them. Let me show you what you can get from GMF. First of all, farmers growing GM cotton easier than growing traditional cotton. Before GM-cotton invented, cotton bollworm was the biggest trouble to cotton growing. Especially between 1994 and 1996, cotton bollworm reducing output of Hei Longjiang and Ji Lin Province even to no output. Then the government imported insect-resistant cotton to solve this disaster. Scientists moved insect-resistant gene from special bacteria to cotton. When cotton bollworm eating GM cotton, the modified gene can product protein which can prevent digestion of insect and make them die due to hunger. Farmer easier than before cause they do not need to use pesticide on insect-resistant cotton. It protects our health indirectly. Secondly, we can get more nutrition from GMF than traditional food. According to statistics, about six hundred and seventy thousand children under five years old died due to lacking of Vitamin A. Syngenta Company add beta carotene to rice. The beta carotene can be converted to Vitamin A by our digestive system. Not only GMF has not negative affect to us, but also it can save millions children's life. 
Those queries causing definitely due to lacking of knowledge about gene technology. I did think GMF is harmful to us. From internet hearsays to the gene pollution. But I have found that GMF is absolutely safety food. It will benefit mankind. 
