A Review of Influences on Dining Out 
Eating in a restaurant and enjoying a meal of lobster can release your stress and have a good time with your friends. With the Thanksgiving approaching, you can see many restaurants providing special buffet with dishes like Clam Chowder, Stuffed Tom Turkey, Honey Roasted Ham and of course Pumpkin Pies. It is no way to refuse such delicious food. However, you can cook similar dishes at home. Is it necessary for you to dine out to take unhealthy food made in most of restaurants? Food quality issue becomes prominent in recent years, not only has negative impact on people's health, but also a serious social problem. Therefore, people should carefully consider that eating at home is conductive to their life style. Thus, I believe that people will not complain about the quality of food if they would like to make food at home more often. 
First of all, you should pay more attention to food quality security issue that eating out may have more possibility to take unhealthy food. It is well known that it tends to be less risk of cancer if people take less high-fat food, too much sugar, salt and calories, as well as sugary drinks. Especially, eating too much processed meats is a potential health risk. With the current high-salt diet often serviced by restaurants, the risk for high blood pressures can increase. However, in order to attract more customers, restaurants provide the high-calories and high-salt diet. People prefer to eat in the restaurant rather than at home due to the great taste and oily month feel that we hardly produce at home. According to medical report, doctors suggest that, as most of restaurant foods focus on meat products while lack of enough vegetables, fruits and grains, partiality for particular kind of food may result the risk factors of cancer increase. 
Secondly, I have interviewed with professionals on this issue. They have stated that certain food quality problem occurs in some restaurants such as expired food, substandard cleaning procedures, and artificial flavoring. People hardly have the related information about the food ingredients, food-making procedure and details of the food raw materials. They recommend people checking expiration dates before having food when they dine out. It should be punished by government official if they released the fraudulent advertising and selling expired food in the market. On the other hand, the advantage of eating at home is that people can spent more time together so that family members can build up good relationship and family atmosphere during cooking time. A research on the primary students shows that children who regularly take home meals achieve better learning outcomes than those who often eat outside. The reason is because their parents have less time to accompany them at home. 
However, some people argue that people are getting busier and busier nowadays than previous with the result of having little time at home for cooking. Some people even have no time to have lunch or dinner at home because they have to travel distances to work every day. 
So we have to realize that, in the era of the fast-paced development, finding the effective approaches to care of our health become the "revolutionary act". As it is said that the second generation of Americans don't know how to cook, seldom American children are even short of knowledge of the raw materials of foods that they are eating every day. Other argument is that some restaurants supply better food than what we cook at home as professional cooker master more healthy nutrients knowledge and skills in cooking. At certain extent, I agree this view. But as I observer, some restaurants are still using low quality raw materials in cooking so as to reduce their business cost. 
In conclusion, we suggest that, if people would like to have healthier and delicious food, eating at home is the best way to keep their healthy. Meanwhile, it is fun to obtain certain food and nutrition knowledge. Brushing up on nutrition basics can help people enhance health concerns. In a word, eating at home is better than eating out. Restaurant should be your second choice for eating. Returning to your kitchen and restarting your cooking life from today can provide "safe your life". 
