All People Should Accept Technology Education. 
Recently, technologies have dramatically changed our lives in different ways. Technology is ubiquitous, touching almost every part of our lives, our communities, and our homes. Through technology development, it is necessary to learn to how to use them. Accepting technology education is one of the best way. However, as for whether all people should accept technology education, different people have different ideas. Some of them think that technology education is crucial to learn. However, others believe that only technicians should accept technology education. Personally speaking, I deem every one should accept technology education, including general public and technicians. 
My opinion is supported by my interviewee. In my interview with <name>, she explained that the technology education becomes important through the popular of technologies. Technology education plays a different role and causes different impact about technology education. I totally agree with her in technology education. In following parts, I will analyze the importance of technology education individually for technicians and general people. 
General Public 
At first, it is necessary for every one to increase technology education. Because in the modern society, the technologies which greatly improve the efficiency and reduce time become more and more popular. Moreover, technologies have greatly changed many fields, such as work, study, and so on. For example, as a student, it is common to finish homework online. As a student at Purdue University, I have to learn to finish my math homework via Webassign online, arrange my courses schedule on My Purdue, and update my chemistry laboratory video on Blackboard. Moreover, it is common to finish projects, graphs and reports by Words and Excel in working. So, from the above information, it is necessary for general people to learn to use technologies in order to get used to the modern society easily and expertly. 
Furthermore, technology education is very helpful for the general public to increase technological knowledge and improve their interest of them. For the users of technologies, the technological knowledge they mastered helps them to control and operate machines easily. In my home, my mother is a person who did not accept technological education before. However, after she learned the related courses, such as industrial system online, visited sciences museum, and saw the producing process, she can understand the instruction more easily and operate instruments expertly, such as exchange the light bulb. 
Technicians 
Personally speaking, I think that technology education is vital in two aspects, professional skills and knowledge and internal important abilities. In the learning process, a students not only could learn the professional knowledge from books and cultivate skills from laboratories, but also could develop some important internal abilities through group-working, discussion and so on. 
The first points I want to express is that the technology education helps technicians to master the professional skills and knowledge. In technology education, technicians are educated to find the problems in technology and come up to new solutions. From the interview of <name>, she expressed the same ideas. She spoke that in the technology education, we educate student to find problems in real production and solve them. Moreover, she claimed that we also should help them to increase professional and technological knowledge and improve their skills and abilities in producing. 
Furthermore, the technology education is useful for technicians to develop some important internal skills. Loveland and Dunn (2014) list some crucial abilities of a human being in their article, teaching engineering habits of mind in technology education. Some of them are systematic thinking, creativity, collaboration, and communication. Take the ability of communication for example. Some serious problems have to be solved by many people through discussing. So, in process of finding solutions, the ability of communication of technician will develop and improve. 
Take my own experience for example. In MET 144, I learn the professional knowledge about the plastic and high-polymer material in lecture. Then, I do the related experiment in laboratory. I heat the plastic first, and blow it in a mold to form a bottle. From the process, I find the shortcoming of the method that the heat time is long and a mount of material is wasted. So, I discuss these problems with my partners. According to our researches, the whole process could do by automatic system in which the temperature and time are set so that the heating time will reduce and material will be saved. So, the technology education is very important for technological students and technicians to increase professional knowledge and skills and internal important abilities. 
In short, through the development of technology, accepting technological education is important and crucial for everyone. For general public, the technology education helps them to enrich professional knowledge, master modern technologies, and improve the interest of technology. Moreover, the wide popularization and application of technologies push ordinaries to accept technology education. As for the technicians and technological students, the technology education help them to learn the professional knowledge, maser technological skills and develop some vital internal abilities. Personally speaking, I hope the technological courses could become elective courses. Moreover, more technological exhibitions should be held in science museums and universities. 
