Living Abroad 
An international students' life is still a hot topic around us because there are hundreds of journals and articles that are related to an international students' oversea life. For this essay, I would like to discuss the social network of these huge groups people. Once international students leave their homes, they leave their parents and old friends. Homesickness can make them feel extremely lonely sometimes which is why it is important for them to explore a new co-national network. 
A co-national network consists of the friends from the same country. Why a co-national network is important? The first reason is language development. International students who come to America must study English for several years and achieve an average high score in the TOEFL exam. Due to this preparation, they can communicate English effectively. However, their use of English is still not as fluent as their use of their mother language. These new co-national friends that are made must have the same mother language as the international students. Since they have been familiar with their mother language for a long time, using it to communicate will be more comfortable. For more evidence and proof, I performed a small research experiment. I chose ten Chinese students from my social circle randomly and they are all currently studying at Purdue University. I asked them, "Will you be more talkative when you use Chinese instead of English?" Eight international students indicated that they prefer talking in Chinese and the rest of the two students said there is not much difference for them. Blair and Ning Sun both think that when they communicate in Chinese, they feel more relaxed. The main reason is that they do not need to worry about incorrect grammar when they are speaking. 
The second reason for why international students need to expand their co-national network is that co-national friends have the same cultural background. This way, the international students will feel more reassured. International students have a significant desire for the warmth of home. In this sense, co-national friends can provide a similar feeling when these international students cannot physically be back in their home country. For this reason, I prefer to have friends that come from the same country as me. By being born in the same country and having the same culture background, we can attach to each other's emotions better. Since we are all far away from our home, he/she will also have a better understanding of my loneliness and homesickness. 
A co-national network is not the only type of friendship. There are three types of networks that are mentioned in a journal article. The title of the journal is. "An Analysis of Friendship Networks, Social Connectedness, Homesickness, and Satisfaction Levels of International Students." This journal mentioned the three types of social networks being a co-national network, a host national network and a multi-national network. Researchers in this journal indicated that there are no long-term benefits with the co-national network. However, the multi-national network students can get the greatest benefits. Due to their evidence, the researchers strongly suggest international students to expand their multi-national network. I agree that the multi-national network is a very good opportunity to embrace and experience a different culture. However, I still think that international students should not lack a co-national network. International students come to the United States for a quality education. Most of them will go back to their motherland one day and spend the rest of their lives in their own country. When international students return back home, they can connect with their co-national friends, international students leave their home country for at least 4 years. Co-national friends are the type of friends that can be frequently and conveniently connected with in their future lives. 
In the end, no one should lose friends in their lives. Making new friends is always the first step when people enter a new environment. The reason for two people to become friends may be that they have similar personalities or hobbies. Purdue University includes about forty thousand students, which is similar to a small community. Due to the university's large population, international students will be able to make a multitude of different types of friends in college. However, I still want to continue to stress the importance of a co-national friends' existence. As a current international student, I deeply appreciate the fact that my co-national friends helped me after I came to the United States. I cannot imagine how long I would've taken to adapt to this new environment without my co-national friends. As a result, I believe I have grown very accustomed to this new university life due to the positive role that my co-national friends have played. 
Work Cited 
Hendrickson, Blake, Devan Rosen, and R. Kelly Aune. "An Analysis Of Friendship Networks, Social Connectedness, Homesickness, And Satisfaction Levels Of International Students."International Journal of Intercultural Relations (2011): 281-95. Science Direct. Web. 13 Nov. 2014. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0147176710000799>. 
