Argumentative Paper 
September/23th/2015 
Argumentative Paper 
(Introduction)As we know, America is the only country that using U.S. Customary Units, 196 countries, 98 percent of the countries in the world had adopted the international System of Units, Also known as the metric system. Replacing the U.S. Customary Units with Metric system will benefits the nation economically and educationally in a long run. 
(Opposition)People in America are adopted to use the U.S. Customary Units and that is what they have always been using. America is using the hybrid system which is using both the metric and the U.S. Customary Units in order to embrace the globalization while keep its culture. It's not necessary to change the whole system into a one universal units, uniformity is good, but not in cultural respective, and measurement system is a big part of the culture and daily habit. speaking from the experience, none of the laws and metrication movement in 1970s and 1990s went successful or even got enough attention from the public, if change a cultural symbol is operational, America would not be the only country that still using the U.S. Customary Units. The change of the current measurement system would be a struggle which costs a lot of money and time, but the government is in debt. Why should we put all the efforts and money on the units while there are lots of big problems like immigration, civil rights need to be focus. The best way to run the society is to take the necessity of each problem under consideration, then use the resources to solve the most urgent ones. I doubt the metrication would be one of the list. 
(Support)Some people are saying that the change of the current measurement system would be a struggle because it costs a lot of money and effort. However, the truth is the cost is not as huge as people thought, and the time for people to adjust will not be longer than one year if under a proper guidance. Compares to the cost of switch, The benefits of switching the units measurement is far-reaching and profound, because there is a demand for massive international trade. For instance, many routes of America start have digital road signs because it's accurate and the information can be updated fast enough to guide the traffic more efficiently. The use of digital roads sign is a trend in USA, so the cost of change the road sign will not be a matter because it's will cost none to change the units on the digital screen. The effort required for society to adopt a new measurement system is not long because the metric system is universally used in the school, so most people already have a foundation. The change of a daily habit like measurements should started with a lot of small steps, like changing the unit ounce on the water bottle to only millimeter, or starting to put metric unit on the road signs. People can learn the metric system unconsciously by seeing the metric everyday. In a word, the cost is not unreasonable, and the cost of switch to the metric system will be overtaken by the benefits gained from the change, so the concern of money and effort is unnecessary. 
(Supportive paragraph) America should use the metric system as the only measurement is because of that the hybrid system causes confusion. USA is the only developed country that has not adopt the metric system yet. One example of the misuse of the hybrid system is, In September 23th 1998, NASA lost a $125 million Mars orbiter because one engineering team used metric units while another used English units for a key spacecraft operation. As a result, it should have entered the orbit of Mars at 150 km but instead it went close as 57km, so the poor orbiter crushed and burned. It's all caused by the confusion of using two systems. The metric system is based on the decimal system which makes the conversion easy and reasonable. It's really handy to make conversions in metric system, by moving the decimal point right or left. All basic units use the different prefixes to show different quantity. And English units is a way harder system to use compare to metric. 5280 ft equals 1760 yard equals 1 mile, If I ask someone many yard does 100 feet equals. Nobody would know for sure unless they carry a calculator all day long. 
(Supportive paragraph)The metric system is the language of science. Not using it as primary units would be harder for American people to communicate with the rest of the world and American might be isolating themselves scientifically. 
(Conclusion) 
