Nov.29.2015	 
The Endless Brutality 
For children, the most interesting topic is about themselves. Children think only of themselves in the beginning because they only consider their advantages. After they grow up, they start to learn how family is significant for them to be happy. When they start to go to school, they grieve together and laugh together with their friends who are really precious for them. To sum up, as people grow older, there are abundant people who they treated just like "themselves" such as their family, friends, and countries; therefore they think of not only "themselves" but also "us". As I mentioned before, myself is going to be my family, country, or even the entire world, and this illustration demonstrate knowing the history of "our" countries is knowing the big picture of "me". Now, in the 21st century, Japan is too pushy to advocate that the island "Dok-do", which is located between South Korea and Japan is their territory. 
Although the controversy of the island "Dok-do" between Japan and Korea had been issued since a second half of the twentieth century, these two countries still have failed to reach agreeable, reasonable solution. To stop this continuous controversy, it is mandatory to find the "true owner" of the island Dok-do and I firmly believe that the Dok-do is Korea's territory." In the 1980s, Japan invaded Korea several times as an excuse of the First Sino-Japanese War. Japan also had major wars with China, Great Britain, Russia, and Germany. Finally, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, which caused World War II. During World War II, Japan took over the Korean government and committed a bloody genocide. During these disputes, Japan colonized a few countries and deprived the countries of their lands. After World War II, Japan was supposed to give all those lands back to their original owners, but Japan has not returned one conquered island named Dokdo or Rock Island. Nevertheless, Japanese are now asserting ownership over the islets. Yet, there is convincing historical evidence that Japan cannot claim ownership over the islets There are some direct reasons that could substantiate my thesis. 
According to the article "What Is the Controversy Over Dok-do All About?" which is written by Kim Young-koo who is the former President of the Korean Society of International Law, there is convincing historical evidence that Japan cannot claim ownership over Dok-do Island. Dok-do Island also has plenty of natural resources. It was originally South Korea's territory starting in 500 B.C. Even an old Japanese government document clearly states that Dokdo Island belongs to Korea. Nevertheless, the Japanese government found out that if Japan could own Dokdo Island, the island would be suitable as a strategically significant place for Japan's national defense. Then, the Japanese began to claim ownership over the island. The Japanese even declared a war against Korea. In fact, the pieces of evidence Japan had were wrong and unreasonable because many of Japan's history books are distorted. South Koreans had to fight for this island since the past and it is now Koreans' obligation to assert the right to own Dokdo Island. 
Koreans have regarded Dokdo as part of Korean territory ever since the Silla period [57 B.C.-935 A.D.I.] In the renowned 12th century historical text, Samguksagi History of the Three Kingdoms, compiled by Kim Bu-sik (11075-1151), the "Royal Annals of Silia" recorded the existence of an ancient maritime kingdom known as Usanguk, consisting of the islands of UUeungdo and Dokdo, that was conquered in A.D. 512 by the Silla general Isabu, and incorporated into Silla. (Kim 14) 
It advocates the idea that Dok-do is the essential part of Korea from long time ago. He also mentioned about the Japan's imperialism. He argues that it is nonsense that Japan claims Dokdo is their territory because they do not even have the geographical understanding of this island and they has referred Dokdo as Takeshima only recently. 
	Incidentally, Japan's claim over this island cannot be accommodated based on the historical evidences. There are some decisive reasons behind the support for Korea's sovereignty over Dokdo. According to Shin (2014), 
First, Japan issued three official documents describing the islets as Korean territory. Second, Japan argues that it incorporated Dokdo in 1905, but Seoul had already been stripped of its right to refute because of the Korea-Japan Treaty a year before. Third, though the final version of the San Francisco Peace Treaty did not name Dokdo as Korean territory unlike its draft, few countries aside from the U.S. backed Japan's claim during negotiations. 
The essence of Shin's argument is that even though there are obvious historic evidences, Japan is adamantly insisting on their assertion. However, there are still some problems with how Korean reacts to this dispute. Korean stresses nationalism and anger instead of a precise understanding of the issue and logic according to international norms. Sometimes, because of their emotional reaction and lack of logical background, Koreans get entangled in Japan's strategy. Although it is obvious that the land should be called by its Korean name, it is difficult to get away from the island's Japanese name. According to Fifield (2006) "I think that history is determined by a powerful country. We are not as powerful as Japan, which means territorial disputes will work to our disadvantage." This does not make any sense that history is determined by more powerful country but the reality shows that this is a matter of fact. Fifield (2006) states, "Japan is attempting to persuade the United States to push Korea to discuss the issue at an international court. Once the U.S. suggests a move to Seoul, the issue immediately becomes an international issue." In other words, Fifield believes that Japan wants to make this issue international, so that Japan can have an advantage in the dispute since Japan is in a superior position to South Korea in the international society. 
	Furthermore, Japan's historical claim on this island may sound reasonable to some people, but it should not be accepted for many reasons. Most of their historical claims are distorted. Korea was a Japanese colony from 1910 until 1945, and many people suffered under Japanese rule. However, according to their textbooks, Japan claims that Japan was just trying to help Korea economically and culturally during the colonial time while 8 million Koreans were executed or lost. If Japan really meant to help out South Korea in any way, there should never have been any kinds of abuse over South Koreans. Additionally, some of the brutal events were not even mentioned. For example, as you have seen from the above quotation, the execution of Empress Myeongseong has clearly not been stated in Japanese textbooks. Japanese chose to write a distorted history book in preference over writing the actual historical facts. The very fundamental historical things that need to be telling the truth are not found to be true. Therefore, whatever the Japanese claim says, the claim should not be considered as a statement. The figure 1 and 2 also could demonstrate this crucial fact. 
	In my opinion, I firmly believe that the entire world should know who is the true owner of this "popular" island-Dok-do. To understand the causes and evolution of the Dok-do Island controversy, it is essential to know its history in terms of phases. The study of real history would forbid the international society from repeating the mistakes of the past or convince them to truly apologize to South Korea and give the colonialized island back to South Korea. Those who forget their past are condemned to repeat it. Dok-do Island was and always will be part of South Korea. Now, because Dok-do is in danger, people in the world should care and realize the fact to stop this extortion. 
Resources. 
Kim, Young-koo. "What Is The Controversy Over Dokdo All About?." Koreana 19. 3 (2005): 14-19. Humanities International Complete. Web. 14 Oct. 2015. 
Yi, So g-u, Hee Eun. Lee, and Ebrary, Inc. Dokdo Historical Appraisal and International Justice. Leiden [Netherlands] ; Boston: Martinus Nijhoff, 2011. Print. Publications on Ocean Development ; v. 67. 
Shin, H. H. (2014, February). U.S. congressional report adopts Dokdo along with Japanese name. Retrieved from lexisnexis 
Shin, H. H. (2014, January). Dokdo's promising resources, ecology. Retrieved from lexisnexis 
Shin, H. H. (2014, January). History contradicts Japan's claim. Retrieved from lexisnexis 
Fifield, A. (2006). Island dispute sets off nationalist frenzy in Korea Anna Fifield joins the tourists on a trip to Dokdo, centre of an acrimonious territorial dispute with Japan. 
2 
