Argumentative essay (final draft) 
April 27th, 2015 
939 words 
Should we use paper to write math homework or Webassign to write homework? 
Which is better 
Ten year ago, we would not image that we can use the internet to do our homework. The only one way we could do our homework was writing on the paper. However, as the technology developed really fast, the online homework has gradually replaced traditional paper homework in different subjects. Math is one of the most important subject, because math is the foundation of many other subjects, such as engineering and computer science. In Purdue University, we use Web Assign to do some foundation math class homework and we still use paper to do the advanced math class homework. From this phenomenon, I am really curious that which way is the best for math homework. Math homework is the most important part of math studying. 
What is my opinion? 
I care about two aspects. First, the affect of academic studying for students is really important. The biggest value of math homework is helping students do math academic studying better. The second aspect is the benefit for TA and teacher. Which way is more convenient for them. 
For my questions, I researched many articles from Purdue online library and Google scholar. At the same time, I interviewed a math TA, who is good at mathematic studying. I hope after this research, I can have my own opinion. 
After the online research and interview, I got my answers. First, Web Assign is really good for our math academic math studying and can help us learn math better. Second, Web Assign is really convenient for our TA and professors. Now, I want to introduce my arguments which many valuable questions. 
What is the benefit of Webassign for student's math studying? 
	For math homework, the most important part is the process of answer, because it can show your logic and understanding of math. In my first researching article " Evaluating the Association Between homework and Achievement in High school science and math", which is written by Maltese, Adam,V,(2012), the author said math homework can help me review the old knowledge and learn the new knowledge. In this article, the author thinks the process of answer is really important, because it includes our logic and understanding of math. Only we paid attention to the process of answers, we can get the value of math homework. Before the interview, I thought we just input the answer into the Webassign so that we maybe ignore the process of answers. After the interview, my interviewee <name> Ffigures out my problems. He told me that after we submit the homework, webassign will gives us the complete answer of questions. It includes completely correct process of answers. We can use it to check that whether our process of answer is correct or not. The more valuable function is that every questions has own video, so that we can watch the video if we don't understand the questions. At the same time, it can help us improve our self-studying skills. From my research article and interview, we can know that webassign is the most efficient way to do the math homework because it is good for our math academic studying. 
What is the benefit of webassign for TA and professors? 
	Beside students, TA and professor are also need Web Assign. My third article is called "Online applications can save time, paper" which was written by Deinlein, J. (2012).. In this article, the author said that online homework can save TA too much time because they don't need to judge our homework. On the other hand, it saves too much paper. Paper is made of trees, so that online homework can help us protect environment. We know that TA are also students, so that they also have difficult academic studying. They have to paid attention to their own studying. During the interview, I asked <name> whether webassign make TA convenient? His answer is yes. First, webassign helps TA judge the homework so that they can pay more attention to some more difficult questions. They have more time to figure our the questions which we didn't figure out during the recitations. We only have 2 recitations every week, so if they have more time, they can show us deeper questions. For themselves, they have more time to prepare their own academic studying. The submitting process is also convenient. We don't need to carry the paper to the classroom. Online submitting is fast and safe. Only ourselves can see our score. 
So, the online homework was really convenient for both student and TA. 
Conclusion 
	After this research, I sure that online homework is the best way for math studying. For students, the most important value is academic studying. Online homework can help us improve our answer process, at the same time teach us many studying skills. For TA and professor, it is really convenient for them. They can spend their time on deeper questions and their own academic studying. I hope University can change paper homework to online homework, and can create more change of communication between students and TA. 
Reference 
Maltese, A. V., Tai, R. H., & Fan, X. (2012). When is homework worth the time? Evaluating the association between homework and achievement in high school science and math. The High School Journal, 96(1), 52-72. 
Mendicino, M., Razzaq, L., & Heffernan, N. T. (2009). A comparison of traditional homework to computer-supported homework. Journal of Research on Technology in Education, 41(3), 331-359. 
Deinlein, J. (2012). Online applications can save time, paper. Central Penn Business Journal, 
28(46), 17-17,20. 
