Argumentative essay 
12/11/2015 
A New Era: Renewable Eergy 
As fossil fuels near depletion, finding something to replace fossil fuel is important. Alternative energy refers to various sources energy that could replace fossil fuel (i.e. any type of energy that could supplement fossil fuel can be considered alternative energy). There are many forms of alternative energy available, but energy classified as renewable energy is the best option today. Renewable energy does not come from fossil fuel, but comes from naturally occurring sources that are inexhaustible. Some examples of the major sources of renewable energy include hydroelectric, solar, and wind power. Renewable energy has several advantages over fossil fuel, which makes it a better source energy than fossil fuel because of the aspect that it can meet the supply demand, the cheap costs, and the notion that the resource is inexhaustible. 
There are beliefs about renewable energy not being the best replacement for fossil fuel because some people say that renewable energy has limits on its energy production. There are doubts to whether or not the quantity of energy produced is able to keep up with the demand. Today's share of the energy proportion is dominated by fossil fuel. Only a small fraction of energy in the United States is produced by renewable energy, at just 14.3%. (Bossong, 2014) This means that of the total renewable energy only account for 14.3% which are either produced by solar, hydro, or wind. Secondly, renewable energy is more expensive to set up and operate than fossil fuel. For example, the technology required to trap solar energy is expensive, and the amount of capital needed to set up the dams are too costly. Thirdly, although the resource might be inexhaustible, locating the right environment that has the capability to accommodate renewable energy is too challenging. Finding an environment that is suitable for renewable energy is difficult, as it needs to have continuous sunlight, water and wind to produce the energy that is required. These factors make renewable energy too dependent on climate. In the following paragraphs, I will rebut these claims by providing evidence that renewable energy is a better source of energy than fossil fuel. 
By the current standards, it is acknowledgeable that renewable energy comparative to fossil fuel produces significantly less amount of energy. However, there are exceptions to this thought. There are already parts of the world where renewable energy shows promise for the future. For example, Germany already gets 25% of its energy from renewable sources, with a goal of increasing that portion to 80% by 2050 (Lohan, 2012). Other countries, such as Portugal witnessed a large share of their energy produced by renewable energy. Wind power became Spain's top source of energy, while in Portugal it produced over 70% of its energy in the first quarter of 2013. (Koronowski, 2013) In other parts of the world, China's wind electricity ousted energy production by coal. In Denmark's case, it has a set specific phases of goals. By 2035, it aims to produce heat and power by renewable energy, and by 2050 converting all energy to renewable energy. (Gillism2014) These are some examples of countries that show renewable energy already meeting the demand. In these society, renewable energy became a more focal part of energy production than fossil fuel. These are evidence of the fact that renewable energy can meet the energy demand. On the following paragraph, I will explain how renewable energy has become cost competitive with fossil fuel. 
The claim that renewable energy is more expensive than fossil fuel is an old statement. Energy from renewable sources has many merits that make it more cost efficient overall. First, there are no prices for renewable sources. There are input costs for fossil fuel such as coal and the purchase of coal is necessary for power plants to create energy which increases the operating cost. On the other hand, renewable resources such as wind, hydro, and solar are free which means that cost of operation is going to be extensively cheaper than fossil fuel. In other words, once the wind turbines and solar panels are set up, the cost of buying resources is not needed, and free. Secondly, it shows that the even operating expenses of renewable energy are becoming cost competitive with fossil fuel. (Parkinson 2014)The cost of solar and wind continue to decline and increasing becoming economically competitive with fossil fuel such as natural gas or coal. In the case of solar, setting up solar panels is cheaper for homes and business than the common retail rates for electricity. (Parkinson, 2014) As time goes on, renewable energy will become more practical as renewable energy are becoming increasingly cost competitive with fossil fuel. The next paragraph will deal with issue with the effect of environment has on renewable energy. 
Renewable energy is not heavily affected by varying environment. First, there are lots of geographical areas around the world that have more than sufficient resources. These geographical areas are not focused in one region, but spread out around the world that help make renewable energy more reliable. This means that any country can reach high shares of wind and solar energy. There is wind everywhere, just as there is always going to be sunlight. The changing weather will only affect small amount of the areas with resources, not the whole renewable energy. Therefore, abrupt changes in weather distribution will effect only that specific area of resource but not cut off the entire region. According to an article by the Guardian, any country has the capability to make renewable energy a mainstream source of energy. (Harvey, 2011) Another evidence of weather being a minimal problem renewable energy is that technological efficiency have the potential to make up for the instability of climate. Secondly, renewable energy unlike fossil fuel is not subject to depletion, but available all around the world. As time goes, renewable energy will become easier to find as wind and solar is inexhaustible, whereas fossil fuel, which will deplete. It will become more challenging to extract fossil fuel, while a location with an adequate environment with renewable sources, will be useable for a longer period of time. The statistics show that renewable is available for all the countries. Environment doesn't not influence renewable resources to the point that renewable energy is not viable. Due to the vast area that have renewable sources, a single environment will not affect renewable energy. 
	Replacing fossil fuel with renewable energy is viable for the reasons that it is capable pf producing energy to the amount that fossil fuel does, relatively cheap cost, and the notion that the resource is inexhaustible. Statistics show that in some countries like Germany and Denmark, the proportion of which energy is being produced by renewable energy is increasing. Also, research shows that solar panels are becoming convenient with daily use, and becoming cheaper than retail electricity. Lastly, as wind, solar and water exist all over the world, issues such as weather or climate will not pose a danger. The resources such as wind and solar does not go away, and are inexhaustible which make renewable energy a worth investment for the long term, and a more reliable resource. In my opinion, renewable energy has the potential to be an adequate replacement for fossil fuel. It is a certain fact that fossil fuel will deplete, and at this time renewable energy seems to be the best choice. To improve the current situation of renewable energy, basic knowledge about renewable energy must be made available to the public. By gaining insight on renewable energy, people become open towards renewable energy, and thus feel the need of renewable energy in our society. 
