Argument Essay: 
Common People Needn't to Worry About Radiation in Daily Life 
P5D3 
May 1st, 2015 
With the occurrence of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster as well as increasing amount of wireless communication devices appearing in daily life, public is concerning the safety issue of radiation more than ever. The frequent reports related to radiation on news media and health magazines make some people believe certain severe radiation accidents are happening around them and start taking various measures they trust to prevent radiation. Radiation, especially the background radiation does exist around us every second and does influence our body, but in decades, we're almost safe and don't need to worry about the safety of radiation. Radiation in daily life won't harm health as long as we don't intentionally access nuclear facilities without protections or instructions. This passage will cover the questions that the category of different radiation in daily life and their strength, the possibility of they harming health and how, and related protective measures if necessary. 
All kinds of radiation on the earth can be divided into two categories, ionizing and non-ionizing, by the level of its energy strength. Non-ionizing radiation has less strength than ionizing. Non-ionizing radiation has a milder biological effect. When biological tissue is exposed, ionizing radiation may cause displacement to the atoms in the cells of tissue while the non-ionizing can't. When this process happens on the DNA of cells, cells may function mistakenly. And when those mistakes accumulate to the amount that cells can't not repair, disorders may occur in our body. The severe disorders such as cancers may appear when this goes serious (Schweitzer, J. F., & Zhang, Z., 2015). On the other hand, the strength of non-ionizing radiation is not strong enough to make the atoms displaced in the cells of exposed tissue. Both kinds of radiation can heat up tissue as well as generate electric current in it and the effect of these two processes of the non-ionizing is slighter because of its weaker energy. Ionizing radiation includes particle stream and high energy EMR, electromagnetic radiation. Non-ionizing radiation is mainly made up of low energy EMR. 
Although ionizing radiation can make atoms in tissue displaced and modify our DNA sequence, which means may cause biological variation on us human and our offspring, it's not such terrible at most of time. On the earth, ionizing radiation usually comes from artificial nuclear facilities, nuclear medical equipment and background radiation. The radiation of the first and the third ones are low level ionizing radiation while some of the second one is med or med-low level. Despite of the occurrence of the Chernobyl disaster and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, the nuclear facilities are strictly guarded and insulated. They may emit very minor dose which is even smaller than that of background radiation and this mostly won't influence people and environment nearby. Similar to nuclear facilities, medical nuclear equipment in hospitals are insulated from public, too. For the patients who need to use the equipment, it's no need to worry about taking exceeded dose. In most cases, doctors will evaluate conditions of patients and make sure the radiation dose they take is under safe limits. Additionally, an interesting fact is, background radiation is the radiation people is concerning about least, but it makes most dose common people take. Background radiation is made up of external background radiation and internal background radiation. The external radiation is emitted from outer space and the radiative material in air, water, soil and rock. The internal radiation come from the radiative atoms in the air, water and food we take in. The annual dose background radiation puts on a person nearly equals to the half does of taking an X ray or CT scan (American Nuclear Society, 2009). Background radiation is also almost safe because we human have taken it for a long time, from when we were monkeys. Of course taking large amount of high level ionizing radiation in short time certainly harms body. However, the case of low level ionizing radiation is unsure. The low level one certainly lead some biological effects in exposed tissue. Biological effects are the biological changes happened in tissue when it's influenced by external factors. The biological meaning and significance of those effects are ambiguous (Karipidis et al., 2007). In short periods of time they're harmless, but their long term results are unknown. The conclusion about whether low level ionizing radiation is good or bad to health over long term hasn't been discovered.. 
Similar to ionizing radiation, the safety issue of non-ionizing radiation is always questioned these years. The radiation is majorly EMR, which is mostly emitted by communication devices. The public is scared by various antenna set in cities and the amount as well as the function of wireless devices we use nowadays. High level non-ionizing radiation can harm body by the intense heat and electric current generated in tissue. This is same as the way how microwave oven works. The biological effects of low level non-ionizing radiation include slightly heating up, generating small electric current and other uncertain changes. The temperature rising and electric current is almost fine, but just like low level ionizing radiation, the biological meaning of other changes are vague (Karipidis et al., 2007). Scientists tend to believe that normally non-ionizing radiation in daily life won't influence or harm health in short time, about 20 to 50 years. But no one can affirm there's no harm over long period such as centuries. The long term safety issue of non-ionizing radiation is still in research. 
Although radiation continuously exists around us from when we were monkeys, we're almost safe and there is no need to worry about radiation in decades from now. As long as not intentionally approach nuclear facilities, radiation won't harm our health. High level ionizing and non-ionizing radiation which can harm health instantly is very rear to us. Most people will never meet it in their life. Low level ionizing and non-ionizing radiation which exist in daily life won't hurt us in decades, but their influences to health over long term are still in research. The researches about radiation's health issue are always costly and slow because of large amount of sample needed, being influenced easily by many factors and difficulty of processing strict control experiment. Although with these difficulties, the related researches are urgent and significant since low leveling radiation may influence human's offspring and other important aspects. 
