Argumentative Essay (draft#final) 
April 28, 2015 
Words 742 
Only child 
Introduction 
	In China, there is a policy called single child policy-which means each family can have only one child. This policy effectively helps to control the population of China, but solutions that come with one child policy accompany problems. For instance, this policy does not consider how it influences the future mental health of an only-child. I was born in a single child family. My parents were always too busy to take care of me. Plus My diffidence keeps me away from making friends with others. My childhood was consist of loneliness. Some of my behavior such as unwilling to do homework and bad social relationship , was defined as lazy and bad, which later found out is ADHD(Attention deficit hyperactive disorder). People who have ADHD usually have trouble with concentration. Some are unable to focus on the conversation, some can't successfully finish assignments. 
what are the positive and negative effect of growing as an only child? 
	One obvious phenomenon is that, many only-children don't have any company. Once their parents go to work, they become alone. Play by themselves, eat by themselves, do homework by themselves, everything they have to do on their own. They are really lonely during their childhood, but it also develops their independence. After they get into college, they don't have to worry about living. They are able to take care of themselves. However, some special situation is that because the kid is the only child in this family, parents give everything their child want, and do whatever their kid want. Kids are too dependent to do anything individually. In addition, sufficient resources in early lifetime lead to their insufficient wants later. Norman Fenton(1928) cited the general conclusion of single children from Bohannon that most of only child's health were below the average in both physical and psychological, such as selfishness, bad social relationship, and unwillingness to school. All of these situations are so extreme that some of single children have totally different personality and behavior with kids who have sibling. For example, some of them don't like doing homework and always get distracted, or they can't organize their daily life well, and they normally don't attend group activity. 
Does only child have higher risk on developing ADHD? 
	In order to verify the definition of the only child from a statistical view, Norman(1928) made an experiment to study a group of children, which contained single children and children who had sibling. The result was surprisingly contradict to Bohannon's conclusion. Norman(1928) discovered the even there were some distinctions, the greatest distinction was in positive aspect-self-confidence. Data from experiment indicated only children , they usually have a little bit more leadership and unpopularity than others, but the difference is negligible. For negative aspect, only children were a little more likely to be aggressive but a small amount. According to this article, Norman(1928)'s experiment denied some previous research about single children. Compare to children who have sibling, only children have no huge difference with them both physically and psychologically. 
	Another people, Judith Black investigated the only child in America, and the results also proved that growing as a single child is a advantage was actually wrong. Judith pointed out only children's cognition are much better than children from two-child families and singles were not desire to more satisfaction and happiness. All of these results verified there is no negative effect growing as a single child, which means children who have sibling take same risk on developing ADHD. 
conclusion 
	After all of these investigation to only children, personally, family education and environment play a significant role in children's development. According to Judith's article(The only child in America), there are three possible explanations why there were so many people emphasizing the negative part of only children. First was the previous research failed to grasp the advantages of being an only child. Second, during the long period of human history, only children and those who had little siblings had always been put on the first priority to raise and usually inherit the elder generation's wealth and knowledge. Last one is social benefits encouraged people to have sibling, some country may have policy that the more children you have, the better benefits you get. Single children families still face a serious problem that children are easily treated lightly when parents both go to work which make their growing environment pretty bad. 
