P5D3 
4/25/2015 
Losing fat is not easy 
As obesity is a growing problem, our awareness of fitness is also rising. In the last few decades, many dieting and exercise programs have been made available for the sale. Most of them are effective programs made by certified professionals. However, the problem of obesity is still rising. I believe that's because losing fat is hard! 
Losing fat can be both simple and extremely hard! It's simple because it only has two key ingredients, diet and exercise. It is hard because dieting is boring and tasteless, plus, exercising is painful and time consuming. This takes the joy out of losing fat, which makes it difficult. According to the interview I had with <name>, who is an expert in nutrition, 30 to 50 percent of one's diet should be protein. If one follows a 2000 calorie diet, then he or she should consume 600 to 1000 calories of protein. That is a big chunk of meat. Not only do we have to eat large amounts of meat, but we also need to eat leaner meats which will makes them a little less tasty. Losing fat require us to eat less and eat clean, meaning that there should be much less fat and sugar in our dishes. For those of you who are not familiar with the chemistry behind cooking, both fat and sugar are important flavoring agents. Fat is not only an excellent energy storage unit, but is also essential to containing the molecules of spices or flavorings that are often in our food. Most flavoring molecules are repelled by water, which makes the fat the only place for them to accumulate. That's why fatty burgers taste way better. Sugar, on the other hand, combines with denatured protein while cooking to enhance the meaty flavor and polish the meat. Of course, sugar is also the key to hundreds of sweet recipes. Now, imagine trying to eat all of your favorite foods after all of those wonderful flavors have vanished. You still have to eat things like boiled chicken breast and white rice to keep your body functioning. This is not fun. This is not pleasant. This is hard! 
Exercising is painful and time consuming. That makes losing fat even harder. Doctors recommend an hour of exercise every day to keep your body healthy, but you might need to train a little harder and longer to burn that extra layer of fat. According to the interview with <name>, we need several high-intensity, interval trainings to lose fat. No one would like to go to the gym every day for hours only to come back home to eat flavorless chicken and salads. However, that is the most optimal and efficient way to lose fat. The more consistent and strict you are the faster the faster you will lose weight. As time goes on, your body will adapt to your life style, making it harder to lose additional fat. Sometimes your fat loss rate might even plateau. This lead a lot of people to lose motivation and breakdown. They start to doubt their methods and eventually might give up. This is not an unusual thing to see, and that's just another reason why losing fat is not easy. 
Some argue that a large number of athletes are really lean and have been lean for the longest time. They did not ever seem to have trouble managing their weight. This can be completely true! It does seem unfair that is so easy for them to stay fit. However, we should notice that these athletes generally have an entire team of professionals to prepare them for competitions or shows. Also, most of them love their career and treat it extremely seriously. They are well trained, they eat right and they do everything possible to maintain and improve their conditions. After looking at the circumstances of these athletes, we can see why losing fat may be easier for them. 
Nothing important is easy to get, everything requires time and hard work to earn. Hard work will never betray us! Stay consistent in your diet even though it might be boring sometimes. Work hard and get every second's worth in the gym. All in all, losing fat itself is not hard but the effort and time that it takes makes it hard. As long as you do what you're supposed to do, the results will be pleasing. 
