Engl 106i 
Argumentative Paper 
12/11/2015 
The Disadvantages of Social Networking Sites on online Privacy and School Performance 
In recent years, the social media has become one of the major means through which various people connect throughout the world. Since the launching of Facebook in 2004 and Twitter in 2006, the social media networks have taken different platforms. It is even estimated that in 2016, there will be over 2 billion online users of these social media networks. This means that over a quarter of the world's population would be able to connect through these social media networks. Moreover, businesses and students have also benefited from the use of social media for communication purposes as well as for businesses. However, studies have revealed that online networking sites have more disadvantages than advantages particularly on the area of online privacy and performance of students. 
People may disagree and argue that social networking sites bring them lots of benefits. With more personal information online, it is more likely of technology to analyze your preference such as shopping habits or the kind of news you are interested in. These analyses can serve people with more convenient online experience. In addition, social networking sites enable people to connect friends all over the world. For who live in a foreign country, social networking sites can keep their families updated with their recent news. Nevertheless, from my research and interview, I would like to discuss the disadvantages of social networking sites by basing the arguments on the two areas. 
	A majority of the teenagers and school going youth who use these social networking sites are not normally careful about the issues they post on these sites. Because of this, what they have posted in the past have often come back and haunted them. For instance, a majority of people in social media normally reveal their personal information to other people on the Internet that they might not even know about their credibility. In these social media sites, the perpetrators of these acts have been known to impersonate other people in order to appear less suspicious to their victims. Because of this lack of privacy, some users of these social networks have been victims to crimes such as stalking and identity theft amongst many other crimes (Ta, 2014). 
	Besides, social networking sites could also destroy potential career opportunities because of the online privacy. Due to the fact that an individual's status is normally open to other users of that particular site, many companies usually perform background checks on the Internet before they take part in the employee hiring process. The background check is normally carried out as a screening activity to determine some of the previous posts prospective employees might have put up on the Internet in the past. If, by mistake, these people have posted embarrassing or unauthorized things, their chances of getting employment are affected drastically. The same thing might also affect relationships because, if people post undesirable things on the internet, their families and friends might know the truths behind them. 
	The use of social media has also been an issue on the subject of privacy because it has been known to encourage exploitation and abuse. It is a well-known fact that social networking came into existence because of technology. On its part, technology has been known to cause various kinds of crime. Even though the majority of users of these sites use them for principled and healthy reasons, another group of individuals normally use it for the abuse and exploitation of others especially children and teenagers who largely are normally unsuspecting. The use of social media is too convenient to the abusers that they have resorted to carrying out their abusive activities online because it reduces the risk of catching them. While carrying out these operations, the perpetrators normally use fake identities that increase their confidence in the exploitation and abuse of this vulnerable group (Marcum & Higgins, 2014). 
	Still on the issue of privacy, the use of social networks has also led to increased criminal activities such as cyber bullying as well as online harassment. Such criminals normally target school-going children, young girls, and even women who often fall prey to their advances, thus, creating tension and distress among these people. However, it is advisable that when one suspects cases of cyber bullying, it is vital to take the right legal action against such offenders (Price-Mitchell, 2014). 
	Social media does not only interfere with privacy but has also been known to have adverse effects on the performance of students. Social networking sites are normally addictive to users because people often want to take part in conversations with friends and relatives all over the world. It is for this reason that many companies have blocked social media sites in their places of work because addicted employees can often find themselves glued to such networking sites instead of putting greater emphasis on their work. In fact, studies have indicated that certain companies in Britain have lost billions of dollars every year because the addiction of employees to media sites had led to reduced productivity. Even though organizations can control the use of social media, parents and teachers find it difficult to monitor the usage of such sites by students (Boyd, 2015). The increased usage of social media by students has coincided with reduced performance amongst them. 
	Instead of focusing on their studies, students normally find it more appealing to engage in conversations with their friends and other people through these sites. It has been noted that most students, particularly those in high school, spend much of their time until the wee hours of the night indulging in social interactions through the Internet. Such students normally forget their assignments as well as avoid taking part in extra reading. It has also been known that students who spend most of their time on social networks can also suffer from mental health issues. 
	Research has indicated that the use of social media, because of its addiction, can have mental health impacts on its users. It has been noted that such addiction can affect daily activities such as eating and even concentration. When this happens to students, it is highly likely that it would affect their performance in school because they will always be hooked on other ideas. Consequently, learners who are social media addicts have also been noted to be poor in social interactions that occur at a personal level. Such students are often afraid of taking part in class activities such as discussions with others students. Overall, this lack of engagement in classwork has also been noted to affect their performances substantially. Apart from not taking part in social activities, such students do not also have time for physical activities because much of their time is spent chatting on the Internet (Lehman, 2013). Lack of proper physical activities has also been attributed to poor performance. 
	The use of the Internet has greatly revolutionized the world because it has made people overcome many challenges especially when it comes to long distance communication. However, based on the facts discussed above, it can be argued that the Internet has also had its own disadvantages particularly when it comes to the privacy and performance of students. To tackle the issue of privacy, the social media administrators should come up with ways through which it can improve their features so that information posted on such sites do not get to the wrong hands (Price-Mitchell, 2014). On the issue of performance, it is the duty of teachers and parents to ensure that they regulate the amount of time their students and children spend on the Internet for the sake of their academic excellence. 
