Dressing skimpy is not guilty 
Sexual harassment has always been a serious social issue under public discussion. Whether dress code played an important role in the events of sexual harassment has always been a hotly contested argument as well. Moreover, in case of Meritor savings bank v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57 (1986), the Supreme Court clearly claimed that the plaintiff's attire was a welcomed tendency, which implied the victim was willing to be harassed. Back to nowadays society, there are still two voices upon whether dress is one of the defenses of offenders. I argue that a person's dress is not an excuse for harassers with supportive evidence of Rule 412., males victims in non-revealing clothes and people's rights of wearing what they want. 
Rule 412. (1994) provides authority to support the argument that a person's dress is not a reason for harassment. As the definition of sexual harassment is unwelcome behavior and the limitation of the rule, in Meritor, the court was hard to determine whether the harasser's behavior of non-physical harassment is really unwelcomed for victim since the victim wore short skirt. It's hard to decide if the victim was willing to participate in the sexual harassment since the court assume the victim's dress might be an invitation. Therefor the results of this case of sexual harassment ascribed parts of the results of the sexual harassment to victim's dress, which means a person's dress is a cause of sexual harassment. To revise the limitation, Rule 412. was passed in 1994, eight years after Meritor case. It states two specific pieces of evidence, which are not admissible in a court involving alleged sexual misconduct. First is the evidence offered to prove that a victim engaged in other sexual behavior. The second is evidence offered to prove a victim's sexual predisposition. Thus, however a victim dresses cannot be considered as an invitation to be harassed. Rule 412. clearly claims that dress code is not a potential invitation from the victims. So in conclusion, dress code is not a testimony for harassers on the court. 
The second reason is that males in pants who don't dress provocatively are also victims. In Meritor's case, due to her dress, the court claimed that the victim's attire invited her to be harassed. However, if dress code really plays an important role in sexual harassment, then how to explain the cases of male victims. The data of Sexual Harassment Charges FY 2010- FY 2013 from U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) shows an average of 15 percent of charges filed by males annually and that number goes up each year. The statistics determined that males who are not in a short skirt or bikini are also the victims of sexual harassment. As Ernest Heffner (2010), an attorney in the EEOC's Office of Legal Counsel, states "It's certainly possible that there's more sexual harassment of men going on, but it could just be that more men are coming forward and complaining about it." From Ernest Heffner's words, we can imply that male victims have always existed through the years. As a result, whether dressing provocatively or not, offenders still harass victims. This means females victims' dress code is inadmissible as evidence for harassers to plead against victims, another piece of evidence of the argument that a person's dress cannot be an excuse of harassers. 
Moreover, people have the right to choose what they want to wear. Pickard (2012) elaborated this idea in her article Let women wear what they want, which came from a controversy that happened in China. An officer of Shanghai Metro Company posted a picture of a girl in see-through clothes on his official account. The picture was with words: "It is no wonder if you dress like this in the subway and get harassed. Girls, please be dignified to avoid perverts." I submit that people should not restrict women's dress because it will not decrease the cases of sexual harassment. Pickard also claimed that women should not be told how to dress "respectfully" to avoid being sexual harassment. People should blame and focus on the harassers instead. Women have the right to wear what they want. Instead of warning women, we as a people should warn the harassers. People have the right to choose what they wear and what they wear shall not be a reason to be blamed for harassment. 
As I've discussed dress cannot be a defense by harasser. No matter how a victim dresses, people cannot assume that he or she has an invitation to be harassed. Under the Rule 412., offenders cannot use it as their defenses. Also in the result of statistics, male, who are generally assumed to wear non-revealing clothes are victims of sexual harassment. Moreover, as people's civil rights, they have the rights to choose what they want to wear. Therefore, dressing skimpy is not an excuse for harasser and it's not a reason to blame victims. 
Reference Page 
Pickard, G. (June 30, 2012). Let women wear what they want. Retrieved from http://www.china.org.cn/opinion/2012-06/30/content_25769595.htm 
The Associated Press. (March 4, 2010). Workplace sexual harassment claims by men are on the rise. Retrieved from 
http://www.nydailynews.com/life-style/workplace-sexual-harrassment-claims-men-rise-article-1. 170550 
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (2013). Sexual harassment charges FY 2010 - FY 2013. Retrieved from 
http://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/statistics/enforcement/sexual_harassment_new.cfm 
