Dressing skimpy is not guilty 
Due to the argumentative cases of sexual harassment happened in metro in June 2012, there was a debate on dress code of victims. The operator posted a picture of a woman in provocative dress with words "It's not surprise some people wear in revealing attire get harassed." This event started a flame war on the Internet. People were separated by two opinions. One group of people agreed with the operators' idea. Nevertheless I am on the side of the other people who judged dress code isn't the excuse of sexual harassment. 
Male in pants are also victims of sexual harassment so female victims can't be blamed on dress code. Beiner (2007) elaborated this idea in her article Sexy dressing revisited: Does target dress play a part in sexual harassment cases? To prove her idea, I find a more powerful and direct evidence; the data of Sexual Harassment Charges FY 2010- FY 2013 from U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission which shows average 15 percent of charges filed by males annually. The statistics determined that males who are not in skirt, bikini, and laces are also the victims of sexual harassment. This means a woman in provocative dress isn't a factor leads to sexual harassment and people cannot censure the victims for what they wear. 
With the male cases, dressing conservatively cannot fully guarantee zero sexual crime. In other words, if people consider dress code as a reason of sexual harassment, then like the statement posted on China Daily (2012), "According to this logic (dress code leads to sexual harassment), all men can harass women in swimming pools?" The answer is definitely "No they can't." No mater a woman wear, her dress code is not an offender' excuse to hurt her. A person has the rights to choose his or her dressing style and it's law allowed. And harassers are the people who break the law so that general public shouldn't blame victims. 
To analyze the cases of sexual harassment, gender discrimination and women social classes have more impacts on sexual harassment. India, considered as one of the countries, which cases of sexual harassment happened most among the world. There was a significant case in India called 2012 Delhi gang rape. A girl was raped by six men in a private bus and died. A court in South Delhi accepted and heard the case. And the finally judgment is death penalty. However, before the cases got the court decision, there were nearly 8900 cases like this in India, which had not been judged. Cases of sexual harassment in India are usual. One of the reasons is the gender discrimination in India is a serious problem since ancient India due to the caste system. Though the government abolished the caste system in 1947 but it still exits. Women in India have low social classes and general public even government does not take their rights seriously. And the caste system that was a historical issue still influence people's thoughts on gender discrimination there. Take Ingonia, a remote village, as an example, women with the surname of Nats live in that village which is also called village of prostitution were living by dancing for the nobles. With the revocation of caste, women there lost their means of living so they have to prostitute themselves. As this case, we can see that women in India have low social classes, which easily lead to sexual problems. Comparing to sexual discrimination, dress code is not a big deal related to sexual harassment. 
As the actress Kathleen Turner said, "Being a sex symbol has to do with an attitude, not looks," no victims should be blamed by their dress code. And if people condemn them for what they dress, the issue of sexual harassment will refer to gender discrimination, which is exactly one of the factors results in sexual harassment. Though there are several ways to protect us from sexual harassment such as avoiding being alone, accusing harassers, asking others' for help, the original measure is to change people's thought on sexual harassment. It's hard to be realized nowadays but I believed the situation will become better and better. 
