Argumentative Essay, draft 3 
04/23/2016 
Chinese students studying in America 
Argumentative Essay 
	For these years, more and more Chinese students have come to America to continue their education. Not only they could broad their vision and experience a different culture here but also they could receive the advanced education here. However, some American students or citizens have misunderstanding of Chinese students, they think there are some other reasons why Chinese students chose to study in America beyond getting better education, which is Chinese students have immigration purposes and want to stay in America as long as they could, which might have an influence on American themselves. Because some misunderstanding from Americans, some Americans are unkind to Chinese. 
	Due to my research purpose is to help Chinese students to adapt to America, because some misunderstanding bothering the Chinese students, this essay would be clarify the only reason and purpose why Chinese students studying in America is to getting a better education here and Chinese students don't have any immigration purposes to America. Thus the position of this essay would be: Most Chinese students would go back to China after receiving advanced education in America. 
	The reason why some American students have misunderstanding of Chinese students is that more and more Chinese are immigrating to America, they have to share too many job opportunities and sources to Chinese. According to the graph below, there are about two million Chinese immigrants in U.S. So they are afraid and they worried about if more and more Chinese immigrate to the US, the Chinese would not only take job opportunities from them but also have the right to use the welfare of the US. Thus, they think the purpose of Chinese students studying in America is to immigrate here. Moreover, according to the statistics offered from China Daily, there are about 523 thousand Chinese students coming to America in 2015. Because too many Chinese students are studying in America, the competition pressure is getting heavy to them. They are afraid of the life space would be taken by Chinese. 
	Although part of last paragraph is true, more and more Chinese students are coming to America for education, and also some Chinese students get some job opportunities here, like some I.T companies would like to hire Chinese students. But the mainly reason for Chinese students studying in America is simply to receive advanced education in US and then most Chinese students would go back to China. Here is the prove: 
According to the statistics from the graph, a total of 523,700 Chinese students went overseas to study in 2015, marking a 14 percent year-on-year rise. Meanwhile, 409,100 students returned from overseas study last year, up 12 percent on 2014. Thus most Chinese students chose to go back China after finishing their education. And there are three parts for the reasons. 
	Firstly, the policy from both China and America are not allowed Chinese students to immigrate to America. All the students know that if international students want to study in America, they would apply for a F1 visa. And the mainly criteria of the investigation is to judge whether the students have the tendency of immigration. So if the Chinese students wanted to stay here or have the immigration trend, they would not allowed to study in America. Also, there is a quotation from the website of USCIS (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services) which said: "On November 12, United States Secretary of State John Kerry personally delivered the first 10-year validity tourism/business visas and the first 5-year validity student visas to 11 visa applicants at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. This event marked the start of a new era in cooperation and people-to-people exchanges between America and China, because people who wish to travel often between the two countries can now do so without having to apply for a new visa every year." So from this notice, we could see that the validity of Chinese students have been extended to 5 years. Except for the convenience to Chinese students, we also could see that the American government have the confidence to believe Chinese students and have the ability to control the immigration problems. Also, Xiaoping Deng who was the paramount leader of China from 1978 until his retirement in 1989 delivered a speech in 1992: Measures should be taken to encourage people studying abroad to come back. ( Hong Zhu &Shiyan Lou, 2011) So it is obviously to see that the Chinese government have the relevant policy to encourage Chinese students study abroad to go back to China. Thus, with multiple policy reasons, most Chinese students would go back after receiving education. 
	Except the limit of policy, there is another reason that Chinese students would like to go back to China which is there are a lot of considerable and expectable job opportunities in China. Here is a group of statistics of Chinese employment situation these two years: 
Due to the statistic of these graphs, the unemployment rate of China always keeps close to 4% which is a pretty low rate because the unemployment rate of US is 5.05%. (May 2015) And the Average yearly wages of China is increasing with 10% per year. Thus there is a pretty considerable job market in China these years. Also, because those Chinese students who studied in America received a better education than other and they have much more experiences, they have advantages than other competitors in China, Therefore, the overseas students would be considered first by the employers. Moreover, the wage level for overseas students is also great in China. According to the report from China Daily, The starting salary for returned overseas Chinese students is 100,300 yuan ($16,400) per year. For those with one to five years of working experience, the starting salary is about 165,000 yuan ( $25,000) per year. In brief, China has a considerable employment right now, Chinese students have no reason to stay in America, so most Chinese students would go back China after finishing education. 
	Furthermore, some other factors restrict the Chinese staying in America. According to the report from China daily in 2013, most overseas Chinese students would like to return home after studying abroad. And there are two mainly factors forced Chinese students go back China, the professional requirement and language ability. Students attached great importance to their decision of a major, but it often lacks systematic, scientific judgment standards, which leads to failure in finding a job abroad when they graduated. In addition, language weaknesses and poor adaptability to overseas environments makes overseas employment even more difficult. ( China daily, 2013) Truly, it is not that easy to find a job in America for Chinese students. Not like American students, most Chinese student lack the ability to make a thorough plan since they didn't have too many chances to make a plan by themselves ( most decisions are made by their parents or teachers). Also, communicating with other Americans would be another trouble for Chinese students. So it is much more familiar to work in our hometown. For most Chinese students are just heading America for a while to experience it or to broaden their vision and then coming back. Thus, most Chinese students would like go back after receiving the education. 
	All in all, due to all the aspects to Chinese students, it is much better to find a job in China. So those American who have a misunderstanding to Chinese students don't have to worried about Chinese students would tried to immigrate here and influent them. As what I've said, Most Chinese students would go back to China after receiving advanced education in America. And other international are the same, most of them come to America is to receiving the advanced education, then they would go back to their own country to have a better life. 
Reference: 
1. China average yearly wages. Retrieved from http://www.tradingeconomics.com/china/wages 
2. Chinese Immigration Population in U.S. Retrieved from http://www.migrationpolicy.org/article/chinese-immigrants-united-states 
3. Chinese Students Study Overseas and Coming Back. Retrieved from http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2016-03/18/content_23931407.htm 
4. China unemployment rate. Retrieved from http://www.tradingeconomics.com/china/unemployment-rate 
5. Hong Yi, W. (2013, Oct 17). More Chinese students return to find work after studying abroad. China Daily. Retrieved from http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2013-10/17/content_17038175.htm 
6. Hong, Z., & Shiyan, L. (2011). Development and Reform of Higher Education in China. Internationalization of higher education , overseas students(pp. 105-112) Witney, OX: Chandos Publishing. 
7. Non-Immigrant Visas. NOTICE: Chinese Applicants Receive the First Extended Validity Visas from Secretary of State John Kerry. Retrieved from http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/niv_info.html 
Dear reader: 
	The major revisions that I have made while composing this final draft is that I add some evidence on the counterclaim part and make it more specific and stronger. And I changed my poison and emphasize that Chinese students would go back China After education to eliminate the misunderstanding of Americans. The difficulties I encountered while working on this paper is that it is hard to find evidence to prove the counterclaim. At last, I have to only to use the increasing immigrant numbers to prove the worries of America. The logic and evidences are stronger than the previous one. The major strengths of this final draft is I have a lot of academic sources to prove my points. The grammar in this draft I want o reader to be aware of. 
Best regards, 
