Draft#1 
April.13. 2016 
Argumentative Essay 
The argument of my topic is whether it is good or not to use the cosmetic for people. In my opinion, even though using the makeup can make people to be more beautiful, the disadvantages it brings will be the main part of the effects of using it. The cosmetic will hurt people's skin, especially for the people who are too young to stand the chemicals in it. Also, makeup may cause people to be anaphylactic. For many people who use makeup, they will have a big chance to be anaphylactic. In addition, people who use makeup may have a big chance to get the skin cancer. Even though there are people who really agree that using cosmetics are benefits, for me, because of these three reasons, I think people should not use makeup everyday or for a long time. 
Frist of all, the chemicals in the cosmetic will be harmful to the skin of people. As it known to all, all the cosmetics are made up with the chemicals. Also, most of the cosmetics are used to our face. The skin of our face is really too weak to stand the harm from the chemicals. For the people who use cosmetics, they all know that before going to the bed in the night, they must remove the makeup from their face. Because when they sleep with the makeup during the night, the chemicals will soak into their face. And the skin of the face will be hurt. Using cosmetics can only make people beautiful for a short time, and cannot hold for a long time. And it will cause the skin aging. So it is not benefits to use cosmetics. 
Secondly, some makeup may cause people to be allergic. As we all know, some cosmetics have strong smells such as the perfumes. There are a myriad of people who are sensitive to the smells, even the smells of the flowers, let alone the smells of the chemicals. For example, I have heard that people who use the perfume and then feel choky. It is a news from the newspaper. It says that there is girl who are trying to get a perfume she likes. After trying several kinds of perfumes, she feels choky and then falls on the ground. She was diagnosed as the allergy to the perfumes. Sometimes using the cosmetics will cause people in danger. So it is not a good choice to use makeup for a long time. 
Finally, people who use makeup may be easier than others who do not use it to get the skin cancer. Most of the cosmetics maintain the antiseptic which is used to make the makeup stay from rot. People think that the antiseptic will react with the sunlight during the day. And it will change into something which is toxic. After a long time of using it, the skin will absorb a number of toxic things. The toxic thing will cause the skin cancer easily. As we all know, skin cancer is not easy to cure. Avoiding using cosmetics will be a helpful way to avoid getting skin cancer. 
Some people think that it is helpful to use cosmetics. They think that it can make them look like more beautiful than they usually are. They use the cosmetics to make them have a bright and white skin color, and big eyes. Cosmetics can bring a huge change on their face. They like to change like that. When they use the cosmetics, they feel confident to go out on the street. It is true that makeup can change people, can make people get the beauty. But actually, people do not know the potential damage of using makeup. It will be harmful to our healthy and body. The disadvantages are more than the advantages when people using the cosmetics everyday. 
All in all, using cosmetics is not a good choice for people. It will hurt our skin of face and cause the skin aging. People who use cosmetics can only hold the beauty for a short time, not a long time. Using makeup may cause the allergy to people. Most of the makeup will have strong smells. These smells may not suit for some people's body. Also, using makeup may cause the skin cancer. The chemicals in the cosmetic will react with the sunlight and change into something which is toxic. So it will be better not to use makeup during our daily life. 
