People's behavior of traffic light 
"Time is money." Saving time has become an indispensable behavior in our life, and it plays on increasingly important role in our life. In order to save time, lots of people disobey the traffic light and think they are no actual use for them. Some people claim that it is not necessary to obey the traffic lights where there are no vehicles and pedestrians and what they do is wasting time. Others state that no matter what the situation is, the disadvantages far outweigh the advantages. I am interested in this topic because I found that traffic light has greatly facilitated people's life but there are still hosts of people ignore traffic lights. As for me, a busy crossroad near my high school gate, its traffic red light is during 5 minutes long but only 30 seconds for green. Especially in morning, owning to the fact that we have the check on work attendance, a huge number of students including me have to rush to school to be on time instead of enduring the light when it is red. Besides that, in that time most cars which pass thought here are their parents' and usually wait for students to pass. Buttressed by such circumstance, there are no accidents happen in those 3 years even though most people observe the rules. Therefore, none of us really paid attention to it and ignoring the traffic lights seems like as a matter if course. According to my study, the causes of people disobeying traffic laws can be broken into two main categories, internal pressures, such as personal beliefs, their self-awareness, self-control and opinions, and external pressures, such as peer pressure when walking in groups, weather variations, society pressures or control of traffic lights. In my opinion, the internal reason is a predominant factor. 
External factors 
Based on the situation that the control of traffic lights is relatively complicated, I started conducting research by gathering information from some articles. The article I referred were Intelligent traffic light control (July 9, 2004) by M. Wiering, J. Van. Veenen, J. Vreeken and A. Koopman, Modeling traffic through a sequence of traffic lights (Received 22 January 2004; revised manuscript received 7 April 2004; published 2 July 2004) by B. A. Toledo,* V. Mu oz, J. Rogan, and C. Tenreiro, and Traffic light options (Received 29 March 2006; accepted 17 January 2007. Available online 14 April 2007 ) by Peter L chte J rgensen. In first article, the authors studied the several models for simulation the traffic light, had the expert system and used the prediction-based optimization, fuzzy logic and evolutionary algorithms to put it into effect. In second article, the authors introduced that their emphasis is the behavior of cars moving through a sequence of street light signals and other parameters also represents a wide range of traffic conditions. What is more, in Peter's article, he introduced, priced and analyzed the option of traffic light and had the conclusion that the traffic light option is the exotic financial derivatives through traffic light stress tests introduced in mid-200. Because it has inseparable relation with satisfy the need for company. 
According to those articles, the most important aspect I found out is how complex the traffic light is and there are lots of sophisticated processes in traffic lights operation. Lots of factors, which will let pedestrians ignore the traffic lights, are not isolated they have interaction effect on each other, especially the non-human factors, such as whether, and the financial effects all ought to be considered. Therefore, the system of traffic light is comparatively integrated, and the external factor of control of traffic light can be negligible momentarily. 
Internal factors 
After knowing those external elements of my topic, I interviewed some pedestrians to study internal factors because I believed that I could get more comprehensive information about my research topic from them. I choose some people who were waiting the traffic light at a crossroad of my university and some people who I met in Earhart Hall building (in which more convenient for me to use recorder.) to ask. During the interview, depending on their different attitude of the behavior of traffic light, I asked different following questions and wrote down some important words to record the order of their reply. In addition, I filed the notes and video to get some results most people intend to (except the external factor) ignore the traffic lights sometimes. Almost all of them just want to save time, which means that they don't want to waste this time. And almost interviewees thought that comparing to internal elements, the external factors cause they ignore traffic lights more. 
After that, I interviewed a expert, Rolden Steven Hillis, who is sociology professor works in Purdue University and his subject area are Psychology, Sociology, Ethnic and Racial Studies. I emailed him asking if he would be available to answer some of my questions. And he replied me back and accepted this interview with record. We met in his office after his last class in the afternoon. When I entered his office, I introduced myself to him and gave some information and the result I collect through interviewing pedestrians. During the interview, he starred me and helped me to analyze the phenomenon I collected. And the interview lasted a half hour and illuminated me deeper think. 
According to the interview and the reinforcement study, I think the most significant reason that pedestrians disobey the traffic lights is internal factors. Almost people who sometimes violet the traffic lights hold the view that even the traffic light change time, if they encounter something emergency, they'll still cross the road directly. What is more, most of them claimed that the passenger-foot bridges and tunnel are really useful when they do not want to both break the rules and meet something urgent. Therefore, most interviewees suggested that they hope that there will be more ways for them to cross roads. During the interview of Professor Hillis, First of all, he stated that people's consciousness is comparatively important. Their behaviors are governed by their think. Besides the situation that pedestrians do not pay attention or they may be not sober, what they do are all governed by their self-conscious and self- control. Based on this situation, He points out that when they think about should they obey the traffic lights, they also compare the value or benefits between them, which means they think that if they wait stop lights, will they earn more benefits than just cross through intersection. And they finally chose the most rational choice for themselves. In other words, they also weigh risks of their choices and make their decisions. 
