Plastic Surgery 
People not only like the person who is pretty, but also want to be beautiful. Then many people start to consider having plastic surgery to change their appearance and become much more beautiful. When it comes to plastic surgery, there often has sprung up a heat discussion. Some people may treat the people who have had plastic surgery in different ways. That is really unnecessary. It's not important to know if this person having plastic surgery. However, the most important thing is what does plastic surgery bring to people and if the plastic surgery worth people to take risk. 
First of all, having plastic surgery may cause a lot of dangers and side effects like bleeding, scarring that people need to concern about it. And health plays a very important role in it. Besides, the surgery may also cause some complications like blood clots, brain damage, nerve damage and so on. So, it's very important to take more time to consider all the risks of plastic surgery before people make decisions because every surgeon cannot give patients the absolute guarantee about the results or outcomes of the procedure. 
Then, the main point is that having plastic surgery can change people's appearance and make people become more beautiful. Having plastic surgery is a way to correct people's defects that they want to change them. People often have issues of self-esteem and considering what others think of them. However, becoming more beautiful after having plastic surgery can make people feel confident of their looks and give them chances to show their personalities. But there may be physical changes but the real change begins with inside. 
In addition, a beautiful face is a shell. A good manner and rich knowledge make people to be more attractive. A beautiful appearance doesn't make one to be superior also because of our various sense of beauty. Even if one believes beauty to be important, cosmetic surgery should never be considered because our appearance is a gift of parents. Also, we are all beautiful as long as we have a positive attitude toward our appearance and appreciate what we already owned. 
However, better looking will make life easier. Most of time, appearance is the first impression when people meet each other and get to know each other at the first time. If people have beautiful faces, this will definitely give other very good memories that will become the first step to do what they want. 
All in all, people who change their appearance by having plastic surgery are the common phenomenon. Although there are a lot of concerns effect the results and the ways that people determine, it's still their own choices to consider if having plastic surgery is worth to risk. 
