Dose music more benefit to work out? 
As the technology develops, music player is getting thinner and lighter. To shape figure and be healthier, a larger number of people chose to take their IPod with themselves to go to gym. Thus here comes a controversial issue if we should listen to music while doing exercise or not. From my point of view, I strongly recommend people not to listen to music while workout. Here are three of my major concerns. 
The most obvious factor why music is harmful to exercise is that people pay less attention to the potential danger around them when they are listening to music. When people go out to do outdoor marathon, they need to pay enough attention to the potential danger in the road such as bikes, cars and the uneven surface beneath their feet. However, when wearing a headphone and turning up the volume, focusing on the songs, runners may not able to prevent themselves from getting hurt because they couldn't hear the car horn and at the same time, the reaction time to emergency is also way slower. Thus the possibility of getting badly hurt is much higher. The world has witnessed so many tragedies happened to people because of road accident. So don't let things like this happen again. 
The second reason I think music does harm to workout is that music makes people don't have a rest in time. Music can be a negative distraction to brain conscious because when people listening to music they pay less attention to their physical sore but more to the music. According to Ferris Jabrs's claim in his study in 2012, usually brain orders people's body to take a break after they work out for a while. However, when people listen to music while working out, music distracts some of the brain's conscious attention to the physically discomforts, and their bodies will be less aware of negative feelings. People may ignore the negative sign sent from their body and keep moving after they have already feel uncomfortable, and this ignorance may makes body overwhelmed and cause several results. 
Last but not least, music also does not suitable for elite athletes. Music is able to synchronize an athlete's rhythm and movement. It may makes the efficiency of the training much lower because when people are listening to music, they care less about their workout skills and when they keep their pace along with the song, they are possibly won't push themselves to run or swim faster, what they do can just be static movements. An article written by Dr. Nicholas Romanov, composed by L. Romanov suggested the disadvantages of listening to music while workout is that, a competitive athlete should pay more attention to their skills and notice their weakness when they are doing exercises to make themselves less competitive. So it is impossible to see a professional athlete doing serious training with their headphone on. 
Just as a coin has two sides. People shouldn't deny that music still has some benefit to average fitness enthusiasts. For instance, music is a good way to decease energy cost while working out. Because when people synchronize movements to songs with steady tempo, they can keep pace and their breath fluctuates in a small range, which leads to less energy cost and then less exertion. An article from wall street journal "Optimal Music for the Gym" suggests music that between around 125 and 140 beats per minute usually can be the right tempo to help synchronize movements to music, which helps bodies to handle more exertion. And then movements requires less oxygen uptake, therefore, less energy would be needed. 
From different aspects of analyzes above, the advantages and disadvantages of the music to the workout is clear. Although music may has the ability to decease energy cost while working out, it is still a potential threat to people's life because it makes people have less awareness of the danger as well as makes professional athletes less competitive. Thus for the sake of getting better workout effect and keeping individuals safe. I hold the view that people should not take their i Pod with them to get through the workout time in their next training. What should they do is paying more attention to the workout to keep themselves safe and get more efficiency. 
Work Cited Page 
Jabr, Ferris. "Let's Get Physical: The Psychology of Effective Workout Music." Scientific 
American Global RSS. Scientific American, 20 Mar. 2013. Web. 13 Nov. 2014. 
Reddy, Sumathi. "Optimal Music for the Gym." The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & 
Company, 1 Apr. 2013. Web. 14 Nov. 2014. 
