P5D3 
04/27/2015 
The importance of the Roman Architecture for the Roman Empire 
During the long history of the world, architecture has always acted as one of the most significant products of a specific civilization. And there is no doubt that the Roman Architecture is exactly the most representative human product supported by the strong culture, highly developed institution, and advanced technology of the Roman Empire at its glorious time. Furthermore, I have always believed that it was the Roman Architecture that helped with not only establishing the Roman Empire, but also accomplishing the great success of the Roman Empire in its battle of developing and expanding, as well as the inheriting of the Roman Culture and Civilization in the long run of history. 
The first reason which leads me to believe in the greatness of the Roman Architecture is that the Roman Architecture acted as a very important role fundamentally just like the base of a skyscraper, which cannot even stand without it. To get more information about the Roman Architecture and the Roman Culture, I interviewed Professor <name> at Purdue University and got to know that there were many different types of architecture in the Roman Empire, such as many large public edifices like forum, temple, arena and theater that could hold many people at the same time. These large public edifices could support the needs of the main stream of the Roman Empire's society thus speeded up the urbanization and reflect that the Roman society had a high living quality and socialized culture. 1 The Roman Empire was just established on this kind of urban design and planning which highly valued the power of the people. 
Moreover, I believe in the importance of the Roman Architecture because of its role in expanding process of the Roman Empire. There are a lot of architecture designed to commemorate nation hero or great people that still stand today, and this is exactly an evidence that shows Roman people's advocate of power, strength and talent. Therefore, the whole society was able to be more creative and aggressive along the way of the Roman Empire's development. When we talk about the expanding and development of the Roman Empire, one great and most meritorious work we should never ignore is the roads. 2 Like what the old saying "All roads lead to Roman" says, the Roman people constructed many roads toward different directions and destinations to make the exchange in population, goods, and even ideas easier. And with this convenience in transportation, the economy and civilization were able to be highly developed and successful. 
The other point that supports my idea is that Roman Architecture was essential in the inheriting of the Roman Culture and Civilization. Worked as a mental representation and carrier, the Roman Architecture was highly valued and we can tell this from many obvious evidences, such as exists of the model of many different types of the Roman Architecture and the spread of it. While the architect of the Roman Empire kept creating and improving the standard and institution of the Roman Architecture, they meanwhile made models and brought them to every new conquered city or country according to Professor <name> . Thanks to these architects and models, the Empire was able to change the face of the new territory and change it absolutely into Roman style. As a culture supporter, the Roman Architecture actually helped with the mentally change and adapt of the new people of the Roman Empire. It let the new people see the Roman spirit, strong strength and good lifestyles so that they finally became followers and became loyal or compliance to the Roman authority. Thus the old saying "All roads lead to Roman" can be also explained in respect to the Roman sprit, show us the Roman People's strong and unremitting spirit. 
However, some people don't believe in the power of architecture and think that the development and achievement in Roman Architecture was meaningless and was just a waste of people's intelligence and power to just satisfy the noble and authority's needs. I totally disagree with this idea because the existence of the Roman Architecture was such a masterpiece. It not only served the needs of noble but also benefited the other classes a lot as fundamental construction and supply lots of working opportunities no matter in its construction period or after finished. 
Roman came from a small town in Italy, with all of Roman people's talents and desires, the Empire grew bigger and bigger with the developments of wonderful soldiers and military. They never forgot to serve the needs of the people in entertainments, religious, and so on. If the Roman Culture is the heart of Roman Empire, the Roman Architecture would be the carrier of it. We should value and never forget the strength of culture and architecture. 
1 Culture in Ancient Roman http://www.crystalinks.com/romeculture.html 
2 Ancient Roman http://www.tribunesandtriumphs.org/roman-architecture/ancient-roman-architecture.htm 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
