P5d3_arp 
Dec. 10, 2015 
Is it valuable and necessary to get aero equipment 
As the development of technology and science, wind tunnel first comes out to testing cars, but now, it also can be used to test road bikes, figure out how much wind force bikes should deal with during riding. With wind tunnel technology, a new kind of road bikes is born-aero road bikes. They called aero because they are much more aerodynamic than the normal bikes. They are stepping up on the stage of Tour France and TT (triathlon). At the same time, there comes the debates, is it valuable to get aero and is it necessary? Many people agree while others do not. Personally speaking, also as a cyclist, there are much more advantages for getting aero mainly because they can make bike faster and stronger, also save energy for riders, and I'll explain all of it to make them convinced. 
Aero on bikes 
Aero technology affect road bikes a lot mainly from aero equipment upgrade. Cyclists usually displace old parts from their bikes with aerodynamic equipment such as aero bars, aero wheels, aero frames and so on. 
As my first point of view, aero makes bikes faster. It is obvious for people to know the less wind force a thing against, the less air drag force it will get. With the help of wind tunnel, aero equipment is made in smooth shapes with cutting edge which make it sharp, the same origin as a car with a spoiler. From the front view, the bike just looks as thin as a string. As a result, it reduces the surface area contact against wind. And here is an example from Specialized.com. It is an experiment that they built an aero bike using wind tunnel supported by Mc Laren. In the same condition with same wind speed, same rider and same riding speed, it turned out that the bike became the fastest bike they had ever made just because it had new design and equipment which made it getting more aero. 
Next, aero also makes bikes stronger, because when cyclist rides fast, wind speed will increase as the riding speed increases. In order to protect the frames and cyclists, bikes should be made stronger. And what is amazing is, carbon fiber can make bikes aero. Also it is strong enough to hold against huge wind. So that is the reason why many bikes are made of carbon. A research provided by Bike Rader is aim to find out the limit of shape changing on different materials under ultimate condition. The result shows that, frames which made of steel change shapes first which means steel is weakest, and then comes to the aluminum. At last, carbon frames become the strongest one. 
From I shown above, it is easy to understand that aero can make bikes stronger and faster. 
Aero on cyclists 
Aero technology not only can be used on objects, but also on people. 
Firstly, aero makes cyclist pedaling efficiently. With the aero pedals, cyclists can use less energy to move the bike forward because aero pedal lock their feet so there is no useless energy used during pedaling. Take my experience as an example. On the first ride, I was riding to climb, it was tough to pedal the bike because I felt that basic pedals cannot absorb all of the energy to make bike forward. A week later, I took a climb using aero pedals, and nothing seemed tough for me as the first ride. It felt like when I pedaled, the bike just responded quickly without any hesitation. As the words said in the website Bike Rader, aero makes cyclists easier to ride. What is more, the author of the article published in BR, Jeff, provides a more efficient skill for cyclists which is using drag to get more aero. He says that this allows cyclists to ride in straight line, the leader gets the most wind force while other behind him will get drags, with the help of aero equipment, they will be riding much easier and more smoothly. 
Secondly, aero clothing and helmets make cyclist feel comfortable and relax when riding against the wind. Aero clothing is made to be smoothly enough for wind to pass by and aero helmet not only give cyclist good protection, it also reduces drag because it has things like spoiler that can direct the wind pass through human body easily. Ben Hady, school cycling club leader, actually done an experiment few days before. He took two rides with the same route and the similar air condition, the only difference is he wear aerodynamic clothing and equipment for the second ride, but in the first, he hadn't. By comparing the time using, 2h34min and 2h13min, it is obviously to see how fast he rides with aero. But what is more, Hady said that he felt different after the ride. For the first ride, the whole bottle of water is gone, but there is half left for the second ride. Hady indicates that it is really easy to ride with aero and he feels relax because it helps cyclists against wind, it makes air smoothly passed by. Another example comes out from famous rider, Lance Edward Armstrong, also the test rider of a famous bike brand, Treck. When its first aero bike came out, Lance was the first man who ride it and he said that: this is the most wonderful and fastest bike I have ever ridden. You can reach your top speed with easy. 
However, there is a big disadvantage that can make people get away from aero equipment and that is the price. The price is always high with the rare technology of wind tunnel testing and fashion, usually they are over 500 dollars for basic clothing and over 1000 for frames or wheels or so on. So some experts state that people with little skills on cycling is not so necessary to have them. Also, people think that there is little chance for them to ride in big team and with skillful teammates, and they indicate that there is no need to take aero equipment with them to work or go shopping. But still, I think aero equipment worth that money, just because they provide cyclists with so much convenience and I can fully use them efficiently. 
So here comes the conclusion, since then, I still strongly insist that aero equipment is so valuable just because it saves energy for riders and speeds up bikes, it makes riders feel relax and efficiently when ride bikes on hard. Because if riders ride bikes for a long period they may feel uncomfortable with their bike such as having no power to pedal and feeling bad with sitting on the seat or bend their knees for too long. And with the help of changing to aero equipment, cyclists will no longer feel that uncomfortable and just like I said before, they can save a lot of energy and prevent their knees to be so hard. And they are necessary for cyclists to experience the extreme speed and also necessary for cyclists who truly love racing and would like to improve their skills just because aero equipment not only protect yourself from strengthen the bike, but also give a lot of advantages for riders. 
