Argumentative Paper (final draft) 
April 13, 2015 
685 words. 
College students are encouraged to take internship as soon as possible. 
Each student wants to make as much effort as they can in order to succeed, not only during their time in college, but also after their graduation. In order to fulfill their potential, some students choose to take an internship during summer or winter break. This is simply because they believe that the importance of internship can never be ignored. For numerous benefits that internships provides, college students can take full advantages and apply these advantages wisely in the future job markets. Therefore, college students are encouraged to take internships as early as they can. 
The importance of internship can never be underestimated. Nowadays, the internship has enjoyed the high popularity in many universities. There are increasing large numbers of institutes, universities expend their major program into internship. Students are encouraged, even required, to take internship. This is simply because companies nowadays are no longer barely seeking students who only have high GPA. As students take internships, they can not only acquire real-world experience, but also reflect ability of engaged learning. According to Gilroy (2014), companies are seeking for potential employees who have tried one or several internship during their college time, stimulating more schools to put internship in students' graduation requirement. In that case, students who had internship during their college time are more likely to win the opportunities in job markets. Also, for my interview with Qixian Tong, who did three internships during his college time, he emphasized, "Without his previous internships he would never get his current job". Based on these examples, both Gilroy and Tong's experience show that internships are very important to college students. 
Moreover, the benefits that internships provide can also lead college students to future success. There are lots of benefits that internships provide, like professional skills, salary that companies provide, and network with internship's companies. When students take internship, they can enjoy these advantages at the same time. According to Greer (2013), most of internships would help students determine which specific area they want to work for in the future. This is beneficial because many students with certain majors still do not have clear images of what they want to be or where they want to work in. With this practical recourse of help, they will have some ideas about future occupations and working environments. For <name>'s example, he talked about his experience in Mc Kinsey is doing regular job, like morning conference, assigned work, and checking off work list, repetitively. It is not like what he did at school. After all, he admitted that it is little boring to take this routine work, but he does not hate his job and it is totally fine if his future job is like this. 
Some people may claim that it is better for college students to take internships at their junior or senior year instead of freshmen and sophomore, as for they have acquire enough knowledge and can work effectively as they join companies. However, this is not a comprehensive idea. Internship plays a role that connects classrooms and jobs. During the internship, students still can learn some interpersonal skills, acquire professional knowledge, and handle with the real world problem, which they will never learn when professor is giving a lecture. Future more, learning never ends after the classes. By taking the internship as early as possible, they can have opportunities to try to deal with these problems, practice what they have learnt in class, and find out their individual skills and goals (Coco, 2000). For the major, construction engineering and management, in our school, they require students to take internship every summer as their prerequisite for higher level courses. It clearly shows that students should take internships as early as they can. Therefore, there is no reason for students to expect to take internship in their senior year. The more internships you taken, the more working experience you will get, and the more chances you will win in the future job markets. 
To sum up, college students should pay more attention to internships, take full advantages of internships, and try to take internship as soon as possible. 
Reference 
Coco, Malcolm. (2000). Internships: A Try Before You Buy Arrangement. SAM Advanced Management Journal (07497075), 65(2), 41-45. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/231235641 
Gilroy, Marilyn. (2014). Colleges develop internships across majors and borders. Education Digest, 79(5), 30. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/1470793902 
Greer, T. W. (2013). Maximize the internship experience for employers and students. T and D, 67(5), 70-72. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/1370891926#center 
