Assignment 4 Draft 3 
04/23/2016 
Is Cyber Security Important in the Future? 
	Cyber Security is very hot in the computer area now. The term "Cyber Security" indicates the security of the computer network. The International Telecommunications Union (ITU) defines cyber security as follows: Cyber Security is the collection of tools, policies, security concepts, security safeguards, guidelines, risk management approaches, actions, training, best practices, assurance and technologies that can be used to protect the cyber environment and organization and user's assets (Von Solms & Van Niekerk, 2013). As the Internet is more and more widespread but is lack of official protection protocols, the issue of Cyber Security is becoming bigger and bigger today. In 2013, American government listed "Cyber Security" to be one of the most important tasks to be developed, and USA aimed to be the leader of this area since that time. In my opinion, Cyber Security is really an important part in the computer area nowadays, and it will be more and more important in the future of the computer area. 
	Almost all people use computers today. We have to say, computer has become a very important part in our lives. We use computer to study, to work, and to entertain. And the most important part of computer is network. Do you always feel lonely and anxious when you cannot find Wi-Fi in your daily lives? In the past 20 years, we have built a mature Internet system all over the world, and every computer can get connected into it nowadays. Today, we can really find everything we want easily on the Internet! But with the development of the Internet, we have to say, we need to concern about our personal information security on the Internet. For example, when we use our bank account and personal information on the Internet conveniently, we have to admit, it has a lot of risk to do so. Hackers can easily steal our personal information if we do not try to protect it. In the year of 2013, the information of 40 million cardholders and 70 million others were compromised at Target, while an attack at Home Depot in September affected 56 million cards (Silver-Greenberg, Goldstein, & Perlroth, 2014). And then in 2014, a cyberattack on JPMorgan Chase Bank compromised the accounts of 76 million households and seven million small businesses, and JPMorgan had said it plans to spend $250 million on digital security annually (Silver-Greenberg, Goldstein, & Perlroth, 2014). In consideration of this problem, Cyber Security has become a more and more important part in the computer area. 
	So some people may ask, Cyber Security is not mature today. Because it lacks official protection protocols, the Internet cannot keep itself to be safe, we need to protect our safety on our own devices by our own, it will cost a lot of money to develop this area, and we may not receive enough benefits from it. I need to say, Cyber Security program is just like other programs like Operating Systems and Internet, if it has been developed mature in the future, it will sure have its large markets. Just like Windows and Android, neither of them was estimated to be successful at the beginning of the development, but both of them got huge success when they became mature and had their own markets. "Cyber Security profession will not disappear, and Cyber Security will never be solved" (Sandhu, 2010). It means, Cyber Security will never be useless in the computer area, but it always has ultimate issues in this area for people to solve. 
	Here comes another question: people are free to develop their websites on their own, and we cannot force them to be safe. Actually this is a very easy task: although we cannot force the websites to be safe, we can protect our devices from the dangerous websites. The most powerful way to protect our computer on the Internet is to use anti-spyware software, just like Mc Afee, Kaspersky, and Avira. Anti-spyware software with features that prevent, detect, and remedy the spyware problems is by far the most widely recommended solution. It monitors attacks, identifies the malicious spyware, and then removes it from the system (Lee & Kozar, 2008). With the development of the anti-spyware software, we can protect our computers easily and safely. 
	Therefore, there are so many security problems on the Internet such as personal information protection and virus attack, so the biggest problem is that developing a safe Internet environment still needs more efforts in the future. However, I think we will and have to develop this in the future, as America, and all the world are focusing on this problem right now. In the book "America's Cyber Future", the author Lord (2011) wrote:" Cyber threats imperil America, now and for the foreseeable future. They endanger the enormous economic, social and military advances enabled by cyberspace, not only for the United States but also for the world. American government, military and a lot of other areas are focusing on researching Cyber Security right now." It shows that American government considers Cyber Security to be a very important problem which can threat military and government works, is focusing on it right now, and will probably put more money and efforts into it in the future. This issue is so important that even American government and military are now focusing on building a safer Internet environment. In the future, the Internet environment will sure be improved a lot, and probably many of us will work on the related jobs. 
	Above all, Cyber Security is still being developed fast today, and it will sure be a more and more important part in the future, as all the world is focusing on this area more and more. In the future, students who major in Cyber Security will find great jobs easily, as every famous university in the world has Cyber Security major nowadays, so does Purdue University! In the future, I believe everyone will concern about Cyber Security, and everyone will buy security software to protect their computers. 
