Does the way editors framing the news in mass media influence people' discernments of current issue? 
On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina killed about 2,000 lives and became the costliest natural disaster in US history. After Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans, two photographs published by Yahoo! News depicting residents making their way through chest-deep water caused an uproar relating to bias in media coverage. In the first image, An African American man carrying food under his arm while walking through chest-high water was titled "a man looting food". A second image of a white family, who were also carrying food in similar way, was titled "a family finding food". In response, the photographers responsible for titling both images rejected the belief that the terms "looting ", or "finding " have any connection with race. From the example we could understand that even in same situation, different words can show different attitude. Media has, in recent years, become a pervasive cultural preoccupation all over the world. A person can choose between hundreds of channels at a time or instantly access a webpage. This helps explains why, in the field of communication and throughout other disciplines, media is widely studied. Researchers study media in many different ways including historically, media policies, and the effects of media, to name a few. In this argumentative essay, I want to specifically discuss the effects of the way editor or publisher "framing" hard news on transitioning college students. 
		Framing news and image is a huge element that affects the audience's attitude. For college students, it basically shows in whether it is a "hot issue"in social media. However, talk about the effects of Hard news, we would particularly talk about television new. How the media (television news) shapes college students' political attitude and behavior ? Shanto Iyengar, professor of political science and communication studies at UCLA, has pioneered the research in the framing effects of news coverage on public opinion and political choice. He explains that viewers are "sensitive to contextual cues when they reason about national affairs. Their explanations of issues like terrorism or poverty are critically dependent upon the particular reference points furnished in media presentations." In his book Is Anyone Responsible?, Shanto Iyengar evaluates the framing effects of television news on political issues. Through a series of laboratory experiments (reports of which constitute the core of the book), he finds that the framing of issues by television news "shapes the way the public understands the causes of and the solutions to central political problems." (Iyengar, 1991). Since "electoral accountability is the foundation of representative democracy," the public must be able to establish who is responsible for social problems, Iyengar argues. Yet the news media filter the issues and deflect blame from the establishment by framing the news as "only a passing parade of specific events, a 'context of no context.'" Television news is reported in the form of specific events or particular cases - Iyengar calls this "episodic" news framing - as a coverage that places political issues and events in some general context. "Episodic framing," he says, "depicts concrete events that illustrate issues, while thematic framing presents collective or general evidence." Iyengar found that subjects shown episodic reports were less likely to consider society responsible for the event, and subjects shown thematic reports were less likely to consider individuals responsible. In another words, how we think about politics suggesting that television determines what transitioning college students believe to be important issues largely by paying attention to some problems and ignoring or paying minimal attention to others. 
The idea of the media as agenda-setter was hardly new. In the late 1960s, Maxwell E. Mc Combs and Donald L. Shaw began studying the agenda-setting capacity of the news media in American presidential elections. They were especially interested in the question of information transmission - what people actually learn from news stories, rather than attitudinal changes, the subject of earlier research. Their research precipitated a stream of empirical studies that underscored the media's critical role as vehicles of political information. In their 1977 book The Emergence of American Political Issues, Mc Combs and Shaw argued that the most important effect of the mass media was "its ability to mentally order and organize our world for us." The news media "may not be successful in telling us what to think," the authors declared, "but they are stunningly successful in telling us what to think about." the media's tendency to structure voters' perceptions of political reality in effect constitutes a bias: "to a considerable degree the art of politics in a democracy is the art of determining which issue dimensions are of major interest to the public or can be made salient in order to win public support." In their oft-quoted book Media Power Politcs (1981), David Paletz and Robert Entman argue that "by granting elites substantial control over the content, emphases, and flow of public opinion, media practices diminish the public's power." What this means, they concluded, was that "the mass media are often the unwitting handmaidens of the powerful." The press is actually a handmaiden power and politics. 
Objectivity has been the ruling principle in journalism for the better part of the 20th century. Objectivity increased the quantity of literal facts of news. In a persuasive essay written by Theodore Glasser, professor of journalism at the University of Minnesota, made the point that "objectivity precludes responsibility." General transitioning college students do not have the attitude of critical media assumption. When they leak of cultivate discernment, they would be more vulnerable and exposed to information and message, and easily get confused. 
In sum, for transitioning college students, the effect of framing is significant. journalists may take us seriously as news consumers but generally ignore our wider role as citizens. As a rule, they do not encourage communication, strengthen the public dialogue, or "facilitate the formulation of common decisions." In fact, they may do just the opposite by routinely framing news in objective and episodic formats. And "even when the function of journalism is considered to be education," in James Boylan's words, "the public's role is still likely to be conceived as passive." 
Reference 
Iyengar, S. (1991). Is Anyone Responsible? Univ. of Chicago Press. 
Mc Combs, E.M. & Shaw, L. D. (1977) The Emergence of American Political Issues: The 
Agenda-Setting Function of the Press. West Publishing Co. 
Iyengar, S. & Kinder, D.(1987) News That Matters. Univ. of Chicago Press. 
