How Will Sport Affect Teenagers' Social Skills? 
Social life is an important part of campus life, which could make one person's life much more interesting, and sports are useful tools for teenagers to expand their social life. Participating activities is an important part of social life in campus, which could benefit teenagers in many different fields, and one of those fields is social skills. Good social skills mean larger friend circle, and more interesting life. Since sports are common interests of an enormous number of people, sports usually deeply affect teenagers' life. 
To have greater leadership and learn team work, youth should take part in corporative sports. Found that sports can improve kid's leadership and empathy. Researchers from University of Michigan gathered physical and mental data from 709 six grade kids, and then divided them by leadership level. The study pointed out that the kids who actively do sports showed greater leadership and empathy. This means sports can positively affect teenagers and help them to improve better leadership and empathy, since many sports are corporative, kids must communicate with others for better score or result in a team work. During this progress, they will learn how to deal with others, and earn more opportunities of being a leader at the same time. 
Indeed, sports are time consuming activities, and it would minimize the time for study. Teenagers may focus on sports too much and care about study which is one of the main purposes of campus. However, study is not the only reason for teen to be in campus. Campus should be a place which make teen learn and prepare for their future in society, and it should provide youth both knowledge and experience. What's more, sitting in front of a desk is not the only way to study, and sports can also teach teen practical skills which they cannot learn from just reading books. Furthermore, keeping studying for a long time would make teen unfocused and reduce their efficient, and a physically relax like playing basketball can make them release the burden of study then empower them with motivation. 
