P5D2 
04/12/2016 
Stock trading 
	As time is passing by, the world economy has been facing lots of financial crisis, such as subprime mortgage loan and economic crisis in Greece. A number of people who have witnessed those crisis are worried that financial crisis will be happen again someday. They are trying to save and invest their capital to increase property, simply for their future. For that reason, most of them put their money into stock trading. While a lot of people think stock trading is not a good investing way to increase asset because of the high possibility of losing cash, I believe stock trading is a good method to create benefits. Therefore, I suggest to invest stock. 
	The first reason why I think investing stock trading is good method is that people can control risks of stock trading. They can choose low risks and low profits stock items or high risks and high profits items. If stockholders put their money into low risks and low benefits stock items, they would not experience high risks and lose their assets. For example, I have also been investing money into stock trading since I was a middle school student. When I started to invest stock, I invested the capital in short-terms for few seconds or few minutes for money. However, more I tried to make money, either I lost more money or missed the chance to sell my stocks. As I grew up, I realized that I should not be too greedy, since stock trading is not like a lottery. In addition, it required some efforts from me. Since then, I have been investing money in long-term stock items, which have low risks and low benefits, and I have been making some benefits. Moreover, Laura Shin who is a writer of "7 Steps To Stock Investing Without Too Much Risk" and is contributor in Forbes also recommend to invest money in index funds and ETFs as a long term investment to keep costs low and to limit risks, because she thought those investments have no risk of companies' bankrupt or the decline of customers' interest toward those companies. Therefore, I recommend to put money into low risks and low profits stock item for making benefits. 
	The second reason why I think putting money into stock trading is one of the best investment methods is that investors do not need to put a great deal of money initially. People can start investment with small amount of money like one hundred dollars. Until investors become familiar with it, they can invest the hundred dollars into stock items to train themselves and to minimize risks. For example, when I started, I was very concerned about losing my money. So, I only invested five hundred dollars into the stock. By managing the small amount of money, I could train my investing skill, minimize risks, and learn how to invest. However, if people want to invest real estate, it would require great amount of fund. Thus, investing real estate is almost impossible to normal people. Moreover, putting money into gold also require to spend a lot of cash from investors, even though it has very low benefits. Hence, I suggest to invest money into stock. 
	Some people might think stock trading is not safe, because they may have an experience in losing money or have seen others lose their whole money. However, I cannot agree with the argument, because as I have mentioned above, investors can control their risks. In most case, many capitalists put their money in high risk and high profit stock item to make benefits as soon as possible, since they are not satisfied with the low profit. However, most of them only experience lose their asset. After losing it, they have a mindset that stock trading is not a good way to make profits. I think they lost their money, because of their greed. If stockholders put their money into low risk and low benefit stock items, they would not lose their asset. 
	In conclusion, I think stock trading is one of great methods to increase people's assets. Most of people think it is not a good way just because of high risk. However, stock trading is not a lottery. If people want to generate profit quickly, I recommend people to buy the power ball. In order to make a benefit through putting money into stock trading, investors need to care about the stock market, pick low risks and low risks stock item, or ask advice from a professional such as fund manager and financial analyst. Based on those methods, people also can make benefits by putting money into stock trading. That's why I suggest to people to invest money into stock trading. 
