Paper #5 
Draft #1 
April 13, 2016 
Argumentative assignment 
	Having to live in a competitive and hectic society, most people were overwhelmed with their works. Therefore, they can easily be stressed. The important point here is that most people have a misconception about stress. Generally, stress makes them to come up with some negative images because common people have believed stress is detrimental to them. There are some people who are willing to overcome their stress, but no ones who try to use their stress to improve their life. However, recent researches have shown stress could be beneficial for people. The fact above presented can help their lives to be more lively and efficiently. Therefore, it is important to clear up this misunderstanding that stress is harmful in order to better his or her life. I will discuss three possible reasons to support why stress is beneficial for people. 
	The first reason why stress is good for people is because stress has positive effects on our health. According to Dhabhar (2012), short-term stress can be good for our immune systems. To be specific, stress hormones are involved in immune cell distribution in the body. Various stress hormones released in our bodies, when someone gets stressed out. Immune cells show different reactions to each stress hormones and are affected by the type of leukocyte and its functional characteristic. Thus, stress hormone can improve immune system by managing changes in immune cell distribution. Stress hormones makes leukocytes to engage in the vaccination, wound healing and infection. They keep immune cells from being exposed to the detrimental matters. 
	Another reason is that stress plays an important role in our behaviors. Not only does stress stimulate creativity and encourage the ability in one's work, but it also makes us improve our memories and enhances creativities. According to Ven Katesh & Ram (2015, September), the moderate level of stress can cause employees to be more productive and effective than too much or too less of stress. 
	Last, stress can improve our life styles. Ashok Khurana & Roshan Lal (2010) assert that "Stress is the spice of life and the absence of stress makes life dull, monotonous and spiritless." Stress gives us challenge and opportunity to their life so that we can know our limits as well as improve our life styles. Also, Kelly Mc Gonigal (2013) asserts "Stress makes you social." and "It find-tunes your brain's social instincts." Social contact and support enhance the function of oxytocin. To be specific, this occurs when we need helps from others or others need helps from us. Another function of oxytocin is to resist to the stress based on my synthesis paper. Therefore, our life style can be changed into selfless service with recovering faster from stress. Thus, stress can change our life styles to be positive. 
In a sense, the fact excessive stress causes some illnesses from common cold to cardiovascular disease is true. However, Kelly Mc Gonigal (2015) suggests that "it wasn't stress alone that was killing people. It was the combination of stress and the belief that stress is harmful." Kelly Mc Gonigal (2015) cites specific statistics to support her claim. "According to statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, that would make "believing stress is bad for you" the fifteenth-leading cause of death in the United States, Killing more people than skin cancer, HIV/AIDS, and homicide." Therefore, the belief that stress has negative effect on us harms people. 
In conclusion, I agree with that stress can be beneficial for us. Not only stress does enable our body to resistant to the detrimental matters, but it also helps us to be more alert so that we can get better results of works without stress. We can reduce stress by being sociable with helping other people or being helped from others, and stress gives us opportunity to challenge to their life. For these reasons, it is important to clear up the misconception about stress and to believe stress is beneficial for us because the belief stress has negative effects on us would bothers us. 
Reference 
Dhabhar, FS., Malarkey, WB., Neri, E. & Mc Ewen, BS. (2012). Stress-induced redistribution of immune cells-from barracks to boulevards to battlefields: a table of three hormones-Curt Richert Award winner. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 37(9). 1345-1368. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3412918/ 
Kelley, MC. (2013, June). Kelley Mc Gonigal : How to make stress your friend. Retrieved from http://www.ted.com/talks/kelly_mcgonigal_how_to_make_stress_your_friend 
Ven Katesh, B., & Ram, N. (2015, September). EUSTRESS : A UNIQUE DIMENSION TO STRESS MANAGEMENT. Voice of Research. 4(2). 26-29. Retrieved from http://www.voiceofresearch.org/doc/Sep-2015/Sep-2015_10.pdf 
1 
