Will Anime Become Computer-Dependent 
Will anime become computer-dependent 
It is now the 21th century which is called the age of information or actually could be "the age of computer". And animation is a kind of art and entertainment like film or TV series, which is the only art that has a certain "birthday"-the first animation was made in 10. 28 1892, which now has a history of more than 100 years. And today's animation, influenced by the age of information, are actually closely related to computer, no matter producing or watching. However, there are still lots of parts of animation remains original. Like 2D animations are designed and draw by hands and pencil. There are a lot of animation lovers in the world, some of them holds the opinion that "Oh, animations like the 2D style are the best and we have get enough use of computer in the animation field and it will remains like this. Animation will not depend more on computer. So will animation in the future, like those people above said, will just depend as much as it is now on computer and improver its other part to improve itself or computer will take more parts of animation and it will become more computer-dependent? Actually I like those 2D animation without much computer work, but I stand on the opposite side. As a students of computer science, I believe that everything and every field in the world, with the development of computer, will be influenced more and more by computer, including the field of animation. 
To support my opinion, I will take the compare and compete of 2D animation and 3D animation. Here 3D animation, which is mostly made by computer through those programs like animation graphic programs, refers to the parts of animation with the help of computer. And on the other side, 2D animation, which just use computer in the final produce and are original and mostly made by hand, refers to the opposite parts of 3D animation that without much of computer work. From the article I read, Japanese animation field, which is the world's biggest and best animation area, show up the conflict and differences between 3D and 2D animation. Although 3D computer animation films have made profit and succeed, Japanese animation makers still prefer to produce 2D cartoons, over 2000 of which are produced annually.( Jan Krikke, Computer Graphics Advances the Art of Anime, May/June 2006) Instead of 3D animation, most Japanese anime studio focus on 2D animation as it is economic and aesthetic. So at this time, 2D is still the main part of Japanese animation fields. Japanese anime, known for dynamic and calligraphic, is closely connected to manga, which is also called comic. Manga is actually related to one kind of scroll painting called ukiyo-e ("pictures of the floating world", a genre of woodblock prints and paintings that flourished in Japan from the 17th through 19th centuries). Influenced by manga, Japanese animation stands out for its visual immediacy and boldness of vision. Not only the vision but also the production of anime and ukiyo-e is similar, both of which are made from separate effort and work. Different people play different rules in the production, from drawing to transferring. Toei Studios, called as the Disney of Japan, is one of few Japanese animation studios which are the same as those of Western country, use computer to draw unlike most Japanese studios that draw by paper and pencils. (Jan Krikke, Computer Graphics Advances the Art of Anime, May/June 2006) 
Although Japanese anime remain in 2D and seems to be not willing to change, they do, or at least more and more of them do use 3D tech in their productions. They add 3D CG to make their products more international and also more similar to the real word. Those anime with some 3D look actually helped them become more popular. Also, 3D is a more complicated which also provides the maker better specific ways of making with better effect and also improve the whole quality of the product. As a result of the benefit of 3D objects, it becomes a challenge for animators to make mixture use of both 2D anime and 3D projects. Some tool for photo realistic programmed to help this have been using for some time and received good effect. And according to the art history, Japan should build their production more realistic as 3D. They've just make their characters and objects in their own way, own style and vision and could not refer to the reality. (Jan Krikke, Computer Graphics Advances the Art of Anime, May/June 2006) 
Besides the use of 3D tech, computer actually has helped a lot with the anime production. Although the decision of concentrate on 2D anime have no bad effect, as Japanese anime have occupied more than 60 percent of the world TV cartoons show, those company of anime still have their own worries-- the high cost and need of animators. (Buffy Naillon, e How Contributor, 2D Animation Vs. 3D animation) To solve this problem, those companies separate the production of anime and deal some part with computer. The backgrounds, objects that sort of thing are made by computer graphics software instead of being drawn by hand as the main characters are. As a result, computer reduce their cost and save them time. Furthermore, it provides better control and versatility to those anime workers. And Japans anime industries are highly separated. Instead of hand out all parts of an anime production, most studios actually work on some specific parts of one production, making it better and then combine with other parts. Influenced by Japan, many other country in the world now have started this type of anime made. Some universities in America also have those kinds of courses (at such schools as Pixar University, Cal Arts, Sheridan, and the University of California, Los Angeles, animation courses and animation graphic courses had been set up.) 
From the situation of Japanese animation field, I found that, no matter what do people think and like, the world of animation cannot avoid the more and more use of computer and also the more and more percentage of 3D in animation. Both audience and animation company attend to like 3D animation. As a conclusion, 3D animation has those of advantages that 2D one have not: For those animation companies, it reduce the cost of making, it save the time of producing a new animation and also it makes them more easily to separate the producing into pieces to make high quality and also more easily to revise in the final part of produce of the animation. For us audiences, 3D animation tells more about the real world, it is more related to us and it show higher qualities in the pictures, background and movement. Also it provides more vision profits to us. From those advantages and todays situation of animation, it is easy to predict that animation will become more computer-dependent in the future. 
Conclusion 	 
From the research of mine, I finally get a conclusion: Animation will become more computer-dependent for three reasons: Computer saves the time and money to make an anime, which reduce the cost of an anime production so that anime companies would be happy to use it. Computer programs make the anime more real, the back ground or characters would be more like they are in the real world so it will become more popular than those anime without much computer work. Computer, as a platform of anime watching and communicating, are not replaceable because it is convenient, fast and accuracy. However, everything has two sides. Those original animations made by hand and pencil also have its own advantages. They are actually currently more popular in teenagers and youth because the characters in them are quit quiet and lovely. 
Because of those advantages of both computer-dependent animation and animation that are independent from computer, I think animation will include more computer work in the future, but it will take a long time to replace the original anime. 
Reference 
Article Journal 
Jan Krikke, Computer Graphics Advances the Art of Anime, May/June 2006, IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications. 
Article Journal 
Buffy Naillon, e How Contributor, 2D Animation Vs. 3D animation 
Article Journal 
Bill Zimmerman, What Is The Difference Between 2D & 3D Video Animation 
Article Journal 
Gilles Charbonneau, 3D Stereoscopic render in Anime Studio Pro 8 
Article Journal 
Rei, May 4th 2013, in Japan, Why Some Men Love 2D Girls More Than 3D Girls? Psychology Explained 
Running Head: WILL ANIME BECOME COMPUTER-DEPENDENT	1 
WILL ANIME BECOME COMPUTER-DEPENDENT 6 
WILL ANIME BECOME COMPUTER-DEPENDENT 3 
Running Head: WILL ANIME BECOME COMPUTER-DEPENDENT	1 
