Exposure to Softball in Brazil 
Brazil was the host of the 2014 World Cup and will be the host of the Olympic Games in 2016, and for this reason, people expect a great commitment to sports from Brazilian Government. However, this doesn't happen. As a Brazilian, I notice that Brazilian Government only cares about soccer, which leaves the other sports without almost any publicity, causing - in some cases, for example, softball - a tendency to disappear. So in this way, it is extremely important to alert the Brazilians that softball actually is an important sport, and it definitely should be preserved from its disappearance. 
In this paper, I will start discussing why softball was never really popular in Brazil, and in my opinion, the reason for that is the Brazilian government's lack of interest in sports (except for soccer) and also the Japanese community's tradition of isolating their culture. Because in their Immigration to Brazil, in 1908 (according to Gobrazil.about.com) the Japanese immigrants brought with themselves their culture, thus, they brought softball to Brazil. Besides softball, they also brought their tradition of "isolating" their community from the rest of the country, which resulted in the non-spreading of softball to the rest of the country. For this reason, even now - more than a hundred years later - the majority of softball players are Japanese descendants. 
As a Japanese descendent and a softball player myself, I can say that nowadays softball is losing so many athletes that I can notice that the Japanese community is much less involved in softball as it was before. That means that the possibility to the disappearance of the sport is becoming real. 
The possibility of disappearance is also the Brazilian Government's fault by not giving importance to softball. However softball is important, and therefore shouldn't disappear. Similarly to any other sports, it can bring health to the body - by exercising the cardiovascular muscles, and mind - by giving good and relaxing moments to the athletes. However, differently from most team sports, "softball can also bring family together" (S. Camila, personal communication, October 14, 2014). For this reason, I believe that something has to be done to guarantee the longevity of softball in Brazil. 
To guarantee the longevity of the sport in my country, it is necessary to reinforce the importance of softball in Brazil and its benefits. It is important for Brazil because besides being an important tradition to the Japanese Community, it also can benefit the rest of the country with good moments and a healthier lifestyle. For example, it provides the cardio exercise that almost every sport provides, but according to the journal article "The science of softball" (2006), softball also helps the players to develop the visual acuity. This ability of players to develop a better visual hardware means that softball players have an ability to "predict" a play before it occurs. Besides being crucial to them in the game, the visual acuity can also be used outside the field because it enhances the overall ability of scanning and processing information, which is useful to daily decision-making. 
The visual acuity is useful to daily activities, as stated in the previous paragraph, and as an example of that is Camila Silva's lifestyle. She explained to me during an interview that one of the reasons her decision-making is helpful, as an employer at Du Pont (company), is because she can use her fast information-processing skills, developed in playing softball, to her daily job in Du Pont. In her interview, she also acknowledged that softball helped her with her social skills and also brought so many good moments to her life, regarding her friends and the environment of the sport. In this way, besides the health benefits, we can assume that softball also brings good moments and memories that make people enjoy the sport. 
Although softball provides all the benefits, people still might say that "it is not important because it does not worth the price", as I heard in one championship. It's true; most of the times the cost of playing softball is too expensive for its players, which makes the sport still not available to everyone yet. For being not popular, playing softball is very expensive, and it is frequent that the athletes quit playing the sport because of it. None of the necessary equipment of softball, such as bats and mitts is produced in Brazil, which obligates people to import from United States most of the times. 
I admit that the fact that playing softball is an expensive sport might discourage people to play it, it really is a short come. However, I believe that the problem of softball being expensive is not an argument for not paying attention to the sport. In my opinion, if softball were more popular in Brazil, the equipment could have been available in the country, and therefore, accessible to everyone, making it cheaper. Therefore, in order to make the equipment available for the softball players, first, something has to be done to increase the popularity of softball in Brazil, and I think Amber Patton has the answer on how to do that. 
According to an interview in "The New York Times" (August 31, 2013) of Amber Patton, a top American professional softball player, the way to increase the popularity of softball, is to publicize and get exposure to the sport. In her opinion, the advertisement and exposure of softball in the national media plays an important role to increase the popularity and appreciation for the sport. 
In this way, the exposure, hence, the popularity of softball will not only make the sport more affordable to people - because it will cheaper the equipment - but will also provide the body health and the mental health. Therefore, to avoid the disappearance of softball, first we have to get exposure to softball and show the benefits of playing it, so in this way the Brazilian Government and the Brazilians will understand that softball is important. 
