Draft# final 
Dec 9, 2015 
Should Laptops Replace Tablets 
According to technological development and people's preference, I believe laptops will replace tablets. This is because laptops with high performance are more practical and improved constantly to reduce environmental impact at the same time. They have much more potential value than tablets. Moreover, a new kind of laptop, Ultrabook, gradually plays a main role in people's life. 
Firstly, laptops are more practical than tablets and people improve their materials and system constantly. The interview of <name> and <name>'s and the "Evolving materials, attributes, and functionality in consumer electronics: Case study of laptop computers" (Kasulaitis, et al, 2015, p.1-10) can illustrate my argument. <name> prefers laptops to tablets, because he can use laptops on study. That is the essence. Almost every website and app of his courses is designed for PC. And both <name> and <name> agree that laptops have higher performance when laptops and tablets are at the same price.(<name>g, & <name>, personal communication, October 11, 2015) What's more, Kasulaitis, et al (2015) said that laptops could work more with less material to reduce environmental impact. Thus, research communities built datasets to analyze environmental parameters of processes. The study is mainly divided into two aspects, about typical laptop material and potential utility which uses three methods to study laptops from outside skin to inside semiconductor area that is major contributor to electronic devices' environmental impact. The study made a breakthrough that experts can invent laptops with less material but higher performance to reduce environmental impact. Thus, laptops have high performance so that they can do most things which tablets can do and they gradually are progressed better. 
In addition, laptops are contributed to education. With technology developed, people start to use laptops on teaching. This is one big step on education. According to the "Laptops in the K-12 Classrooms: Exploring factors impacting instructional use"(Inan & Lowther, 2010) and "Laptops and Inspired Writing"(Warschauer, Arada, & Zheng, 2010), this way benefits both students and teachers. Inan, &Lowther(2010) use Path analysis approach and Hypothesized path model to collect and analyze data from 195 Michigan schools' students and teachers to study how overall support for school technology, technical support, professional development, teacher readiness, and teacher beliefs affect laptops' integration. Their goals are to prepare students for the future workforce, improve students' skill and achievement, and increase the quality of instruction. Besides, Warschauer, Arada, & Zheng(2010) said that laptops have a great impact on writing, so they investigate plenty of students in K-12 classroom. They have new low-cost tool, the netbook, that is small, less than $280, and has a 6-cell battery. Due to students' feedback and their observation, they have a result very soon. 
What's more, with advanced technology, that a new type of a laptop, Ultrabook, is extremely prevalent and becomes a main role in human life. It is light and portable as tablets and as powerful as traditional laptops. Also, lots of Ultrabooks can transform tablets. Some can split into two parts, the touch screen and the keyboard. Others can flip the touch screens to face up. In fact, <name> (<name>, personal communication, October 11, 2015) has an Ultrabook which can flip touch screen, and he thinks that it is really beneficial in some conditions. He also mentioned the 2-in-1 device whose screen can be dismantled from the keyboard when people want to use it as a tablet, or when people prefer the high performance, they can just insert the screen part to the keyboard to make it become a full functional laptop. Besides, Mossberg (2012) found that Ultrabook is a kind of thin, light laptop with good power that has a full-size screen and keyboard, starts up and resumes quickly, uses a solid-state drive and claims decent battery life. With good, backlit keyboard, a bright screen, and nice looks, it is installed edge-to-edge glass, a silvery aluminum top, and a base made of carbon fiber. I think Ultrabook opens a new world as a laptop. Thus, tablets cannot beat laptops temporarily. 
However, we have to admit that tablets are much more portable than laptops and people have already been upgraded. From <name>'s experience (<name>, personal communication, October 11, 2015), he said preferred carrying his tablet everywhere, especially to classes and meetings. Because the tablet is lighter and smaller than his laptop, he can carry it for the whole day without flagging. Besides, it has a professional pen which can sense 1024 levels pressure. With the higher number, the pen can store handwriting more accuracy. Whatever he writes down, it will record as he writes on the paper. In classes, he always takes notes by his tablet instead of paper. Likewise, from Wakabayashi, & Ovide's article (2014), we know Microsoft invented pen tablet computers with sensitive color screen, stylus, docking stations, and infrared keyboards. In 2002, Microsoft improved them: an active digitizer instead of a resistive(touch) digitizer, legacy-free, rotating the display between landscape and portrait without rebooting, restarting in less than 2 seconds, working for 72 hours, automatically saving on battery exhaustion, and permitting removal from a dock. New operating system offered lots of more specific features. And then a number of manufactures began to produce their own tablet computers with distinct characteristics. Although tablets are much more portable than laptops, laptops have higher performance and more people's preference, doing most tasks which tablets can do. 
Even if tablets are portable and popular, laptops are more practical and have higher performance. They are improved constantly and used in education. More significantly, there is a new type of laptop, Ultrabook, being invented, which has more potential value and grab people's attention. The Ultrabook strengthens status of laptops. 
Reference 
Inan, F.A., & Lowther, D.L. (2010). Laptops in the K-12 classrooms: Exploring factors impacting instructional use. Computers & Education, Volume 55, Issue 33. 
Kasulaitis, B.V. et al. (2015). Evolving materials, attributes, and functionality in consumer electronics: Case study of laptop computers. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, Volume 100, 1-10. 
Mossberg, M.S. (2012, Feb 23). Dell goes on Ultrabook diet with slimmed down laptop. Wall Street Journal, D.1. 
Sharples, M., & Beale, R. (2003). A technical review of mobile computational devices. Journal of computer Assisted Learning, 19, 392-395. 
Wakabayashi, D., & Ovide, S. (2014). Are Tablet Computers a Passing Fad? Wall Street Journal. B.1. 
Warschauer, M., Arada, K., & Zheng, Binbin. (2010). Laptops and Inspired Writing. Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy, 54(3), 221-223. 
