The dual character of online courses 
Online courses have attracted much attention over the past several years. University set some online course replace the fixed traditional courses for students. Whether online course is a good study approach for students to learn new knowledge has been a controversial issue. Different people have different ideas about this question. Some people think online courses provide them flexible time schedule. However, other people give a different idea that students are not able to be successful in an online course and Dori Meinert discloses that online courses have high drop out rates. There are several disadvantages that make students feel uncomfortable and get low scores, can't be ignored from an online course. 
One of the most useful and direct ways for students to learn new knowledge is talking with their professors and peers. However, only online courses are not able to provide students enough chances to talk with their professors and classmates. That means students can't obtain enough communication with their professors and peers. Robert Moore showed his idea in his articles that students think they are alone to learn the online material without the benefits of the shared experienced from their classmates. For students, communication with others is the way that can't be ignored. Talking to each other, students gets ideas and inspires that can makes them learn easier. Besides, most time students only can use e-mail or some online tools to share ideas with their professor in an online course. Hence, students are not able to receive the answer in time. The more questions students have not solved, the more difficult troubles they will get. With the constantly updated online courses, students may not get the right and deep knowledge and even can't catch up the courses. On the other hand, the less interaction between students and teachers is a problem not only among students but also among professors and instructional designers. Carr Sarah showed his opinion that professors who are newcomers in online courses have not enough ability to control the balance of the interaction between students and themselves. They do not clearly know the interaction is also important in an online course as same as a traditional courses. The less contact with students lead to weakness awareness about students' learning progress, which make professors get some mistakes in the arrange of an curriculum. Due to mistakes, many students have to drop out their online course or just get a unexpectedly low scores. 
Compared with traditional courses, online courses let students learn knowledge in virtual environment rather an actual class. The change in environments makes students feel uncomfortable. Robert Moore disclosed that students often say that they always use the same method in both traditional courses and online courses. However, this method is not possible to utilize in an online course. To be specific, online courses need students have some abilities, such as self-regulation, self-learning, flexible learning skill, which helps students to adapt online environment. Unfortunately, many students have not those abilities. They will fear to take an online course and can't enjoy in it. Even though they have enough ability to understand new knowledge, new environment limit their ability and even make them become scatterbrains. Moving into a new environment probably clutters their brain and make they feel nervous. Hence, compared with ordinary people, students who have flexible study skill may easier become successful in an online course. On the contrary, people who are not able use various learning skills, will feel difficult to study an online course. 
For must students, taking an online course is a good way to have a flexible time schedule. Robin Cunningham, who is an associate director of distance learning in Purdue, said that students would like to have an online course because online courses are able to take at anywhere and anytime that can make them feel easy and relax. However, online course, sometime, may let students spend more time on it. Carr Sarah discloses that computer skills play an important role in online courses. If students have enough computer skills, they use online course more easily. On the contrary, students waste much time to learn how to use computer with an online courses, if they are not good at using computer. Besides, Carr Sarah also shows that online courses need students become an independent learner. That means they need to learn and solve problem by themselves. Hence, students can't focus on study and need to spend more time watching an online video when they feel uncomfortable in an online environment. 
As a double-edged sword, online courses also bring many cons when they make our time schedule more flexible. Due to cons, such as less of interactions and different environment, getting ahead is not easy for student in an online course. No one can deny that online courses have several aspects need to improve and change. Hence, students need to think as much as possible and synthesize each kind of situation of taking an online course when they consider taking distance courses. 
Work cited 
Carnevale, Dan. "Turning Traditional Courses into Distance Education." Chronicle of Higher Education 46. 48 (2000). 
Carr, Sarah. "As distance education comes of age, the challenge is keeping the students." Chronicle of higher education 46. 23 (2000). 
Cunningham, Robin. Personal Interview. 9 October 2014. 
Dori, Meinert, "Massive open online courses have high drop-out rates, study finds." HRMagzine 59. 2 (Feb. 2014): 19 
Moore, Robert L. "Importance of Developing Community in Distance Education Courses." Tech Trends 58. 2 (2014): 20-24. 
