Argumentative Essay About 
The correlation between one child policy and self-centerness 
Purdue university 
Although one child policy in China has already passed, there still are some lingering problems caused by this special policy. One child policy implemented between 1978 and 1980 and finally expired in 2015. During this whole period, people, especially children, have been somehow influenced by this policy. When I grew up, a host of media emphasize on a phenomenon called little emperor syndrome, which is about only children gain seemingly excessive amounts of attention from their parents and grandparents. Based on media reported and people discussed, so many people deem one child policy has correlation with little emperor syndrome caused by self-centerness. The reason why they agree with the correlation between one child policy and self-centerness is each family only has one child, who gets more attention comparing children who have siblings. However, from my perspective, I cast my favor to there is not any correlation between one child policy and self-centerness. According to an interview with my sociology professor, Dr. Steven Hillis. He indicated this issue is not about apple compares with apple. In contrast, between two apples, there are all kinds of factors which would have influence. I would illustrate this question by providing two different insights. On the one hand, parents how to educate children directly influences children's self-centerness; on the other hand, the change of social pattern reduces the self-centerness. 
The first reason to support my view is that children get the education patterned from parents directly. Parents have significant influence to children. There is no doubt that when children grew up, parents are their first teacher. Children get all kinds of idea from parents. In my opinion, if parents are able to educate their only child appropriately, their child would no longer be self-centered. Moreover, it is better to ascribe the reason why children would be self-centered to education pattern children got instead of implement of one child policy. According to The End of the One Child Policy: Lasting Implication for China, Hesketh, Zhou and Wang (2015) found that there is no any correlation between one child policy and children's self-centerenss, since they got a result about there is not a lot of differences between children who were born during the implement of one child policy and the children who were not born during that period. Thus, it is hard to say that there is an existed link between one child policy and self-centerness. Moreover, they believe one child policy contributes to building a more harmony society, since without competition between siblings, the family source can be assigned more directly instead of unequally distribution. In another word, parents' education patterns become an important role for forming children's self-centerness. If parents know well how to use family sources, it reduces the risk children become self-centered. Furthermore, according to Little Emperors and The 4:2: 1 Generation: China's Singletons, Wang, Fong (2009) indicated: "Although most of the early studies identified singleton status as decidedly disadvantageous, none of these studies found large statistical significance between singleton and nonsingleton groups" (p. 1137). Thus, it is indispensable to say that one child policy does not associate with children's self-centerness. On the contrary, it is better to say that it depends on educational pattern children get. 
Another contributing factor is that because of one child policy, social structure has changed. One of the results of one child policy is that 4:2: 1 social structural pattern. Wang, Fong (2009) provides insight about definition of 4:2: 1 pattern to us, who said: "one married couple (both of them singletons) will ultimately need to simultaneously care for four aging parents and one child" (p. 1139). Based on 4:2: 1 pattern, in my opinion, children will decline their self-centerness, since people get more responsibility than before. They not only have to take responsibility for their child, but also should take care of their parents. From this process, the self-centerness would be reduced. Based on The End of the One Child Policy: Lasting Implications for China written by Hesketh, Zhou and Wang, who have the same idea with me. They (2015) argues that instead becoming much more self-centered, people who were born during the implement of one child policy will reduce self-centerness due to 4:2: 1 pattern. Comparing with people who were not born during implement of one child policy, they will not be a member of 4:2: 1 pattern. In another word, they have less awareness about sharing recourses, including money, food, etc., with their families, so they will be more self-centered. Moreover, from an interview with Dr. Steven Hillis, we also talked about this interesting 4:2: 1 pattern. As an expert in sociology field, He mentioned that this pattern also will reduce the family size. Because of shrinking family size, people will have deeper bounding with their relatives in order to become the one who is more willing to share with relatives. All in all, it is no longer interested to say that there is not any clear evidence to say that the existed link between one child policy and self-centerness. However, it is better to say that other outside factors would affect this correlation. 
Granted, the complexity and unforeseeable factors in this issue hard to be given a word to. Back to the beginning, this issue is not like apple compares to apple. There are a lot of other factors related with this correlation, such as economy, industry, gender issue, etc. But, according to the persuasive reasons I listed above: first, educational pattern parents give to their child; second, 4:2: 1 social structure pattern. It is no exaggeration to say that there is not any link between one child policy and self-centerness. 
