Necessity to Improve Accessible Facilities in US 
Land-use accessible facilities, refer to the devices for people with disabilities to facilitate their transportation, including ramps, tactile pavements, curb cut, etc. Because the American with Disabilities Act (ADA), a quite comprehensive and systematic federal regulation with respect to landscape accessibility, was established to accelerate the development of accessible facilities in US, American is one of the countries which have the most developed and excellent land-use accessible facilities in the world, and the facilities for disabled people are relatively widespread in US as well. Therefore, an argument has been put forward as to whether America needs to invest in further improvements of land-use accessible facilities. It's true that repair and production of accessible facilities must be a big cost; however, the problems of unbalanced distribution and inappropriateness of land-use accessible facilities still exist in some places, especially small cities. For example, some buildings in West Lafayette lack accessible elevators, and many ramps are not appropriate enough for disabled people. In my opinion, improvement of land-use accessible facilities is still necessary and indispensable to ensure the completeness and high quality of accessible facilities for disabled people. 
First of all, because not every city has sufficient accessible facilities for disabled people, further improvement of accessible facilities is needed to ensure the balanced distribution of facilities in US. According to Zimmermann (2006), around one third of rural areas, especially in northern and central America, lack land-use accessible facilities. Some small cities, such as West Lafayette, also have deficient amount of accessible facilities. For example, many buildings in Purdue lack ramps and accessible elevators. 
Secondly, because low-quality accessible facilities still exist in some cities, further improvement of accessible facilities is necessary to enhance the quality and appropriateness of land-use accessible facilities. According to the description by Prof. Melinda Appold, because early ADA paid little attention to repairing and rebuilding of old houses, big cities that had a great number of new constructions, such as New York and Los Angeles, tended to possess more advanced and convenient accessible facilities. By contrast, some small cities that had only a small area of new constructions, such as West Lafayette, have few appropriate accessible facilities for the disabled. Therefore, improvement of accessible facilities is needed to enable small cities to have as many advanced and high-quality facilities as New York, because appropriate and high-quality facilities for disabled people is really important for their safety and convenience. 
National education is another field that is related to the improvement of accessible facilities. In fact, if the distribution of accessible facilities is widespread and complete in every city, education system will be enhanced and improved as well. Because of the completeness of accessible facilities in vehicles for school, especially in some rural areas, universal education, a plan that should allow children everywhere to complete a full course of schooling, is more likely to be improved and widespread. For example, if wheelchair ramps are available to all buses, the arrival to school will become easier and more convenient to people with disabilities. Therefore everyone including disabled people is able to enjoy urban education services because of the improved and complete system of accessible facilities. 
Besides entertainment and education, social economy can also be positively correlated with social economy Sufficient quantity of accessible facilities. Some people will oppose to it because repair and production of land-used accessible facilities must be a big cost. However, Studies showed that a complete and balanced system of accessible facilities can lead to a rise of GDP (Murray, 2012). By contrast, according to the International Labor Organization, the lack of accessible facilities and constructions for the disabled has led to a reduction in around 7 percent of national GDP (Murray, 2012). In fact, researches showed that regions that have a great number of accessible facilities will improve their competitive position in the global market. Therefore, it is necessary to invest in the improvement of accessibility in urban environments and services, which can contribute to social economy. 
In conclusion, even though the development of accessible facilities in US is more rapid and comprehensive than in other countries, improvements of accessible facilities is still needed for the completeness of land-use accessible facilities in some places, which can contribute to social education and economy. It's also needed to enhance the quality of accessible facilities to ensure the convenience and safety for disabled people. In addition, the other important need for further improvements in accessible facilities is to produce more humanized facilities which can make them generate a sense of pleasure. Based on my research and interview, I suggest that we have to repair these low-quality and produce more basic and entertaining accessible facilities for disabled people as soon as possible. 
Reference 
Zimmermann, R. (2006, November). Universal Design Means Accessibility for One and All. 
Retrieved from 
http://www.facilitiesnet.com/ada/article/Accessibility-for-One-and-All-Facilities- 
Management-ADA-Feature--5573# 
Thierstein, A., & Conventz, S. (2011, September). The knowledge economy, hub airports and 
accessibility. Retrieved from 
http://www-sre.wu.ac.at/ersa/ersaconfs/ersa11/e110830a Final01569.pdf 
