April 13, 2016 
Draft #1 
There have been many arguments over benefits of going to college. Some people demonstrate that it may be a waste of both money and time for going to college, so instead of going to college, it will be better if they spend their time to develop themselves. However, there are much more benefits for going to college in a variety of aspects such as social life, higher wages, independency, responsibilities and many more. 
One of the benefits students can learn during college is independency. Students will enhance their independency through college life by being away from the comfortable zone. This is going to lead students to become more responsible for their life. Unigo (2011) says that college can help student prepare for a career and a transition from adolescence to young adulthood. During high school, parents can take care of them; however, it is themselves who will take care of when they go out to the real world. It is important for students to learn to be independent in the future. That being said, they will grow their independency and responsibilities during college and utilize those skills outside college. The independency and responsibilities is not only for themselves for also their children. Children learn from their parents; it is parents' responsibilities to show independency to their children (Collegeatlas, 2016). 
Higher wages for people with a bachelor's degree is another proven statement of going to college. (Johnston, 2012). Statistically, the wages go down by education degrees. People with a college degree or higher degree will earn the most in their jobs than people with only high school diploma. Also, job stability is higher for people with college degrees. People with a college or higher level education degree will be unlikely to experience unemployment. According to U.S. News & World Report (Peralta, 2014), the unemployment rate among college graduates is substantially lower than the unemployment rate among employees with only a high school diploma. The wage gap difference of having bachelor's degree is about 17,500 dollars for a year. 
A large number of people change what they want to do in the future. College can be a place where students can consider their future career more deeply. There are many cases that people get confusion if the major they are pursuing is what they want to continue to pursue in the future. Having more time to think about their future, they will have more satisfaction for their jobs. Also, people with college degrees have more choices for choosing their jobs because they can enter both jobs that require a college degree and high school diploma whereas people with only high school diploma have choices of choosing jobs that require high school diploma. It may be the case that people with no college degree will not be able to get a job that interests them. (Career Profile, 2016). According Caumont (2014), in 2008, about 60 percent of people who had attended college - whether or not they completed a degree - reported that they were very satisfied with their jobs. 
Although I have written above about the benefits of going to college, there would be some people still thinking that it is not necessary to get a college degree. They may think it is too expensive to attend 4-year College. However, the expenses they have paid will get back to them comparing with people with only high school diploma because it has proven that people with a college degree earn more wages than people with only a high school diploma (Johnston, 2012). 
In conclusion, the sources and reasons I have provided above support idea that attending college is beneficial for many people. Granted, it may be the case that in some situations, going to 4-years of college is just a waste of time. Nonetheless, such assertions do not necessarily detract from the strength of the thesis; the reason and logic underlying the aforementioned arguments are sufficient to strongly support that people should attend college for their benefits for a variety of reasons. 
Reference 
Benefits of Earning a College Degree. (2016). Career Profiles. Retrieved April 9th from 
http://www.careerprofiles.info/benefits-of-college-degree.html 
Caumont, Andrea. (February 11, 2014). 6 key findings about going to college. 
Pew Research Center. Retrieved April 9th from http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2014/02/11/6-key-findings-about-going-to-college/ 
Johnston, Louis D. (May 16, 2012). Social benefits of college education often get shortchanged 
in 'cost discussion. MINNPOST. Retrieved April 10th from 
https://www.minnpost.com/macro-micro-minnesota/2012/05/social-benefits-college 
education-often-get-shortchanged-%E2%80%98cost-discuss 
Peralta, Katherine. (June 24, 2014). Benefits of College Still Outweigh Costs, Fed Study Says. 
U.S. News and World Report. Retrieved April 10th from http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2014/06/24/benefits-of-college-still-outweigh-costs-fed-study-says 
The Benefits of a College Degree. (2016). College Altas.org. Retrieved April 7th from 
http://www.collegeatlas.org/earn-a-college-degree.html 
Unigo. (August 24, 2011). What Are Advantages of Going to College In State vs. Out of State? 
U.S. News and World Report. Retrieved April 7th from http://www.usnews.com/education/blogs/college-admissions-experts/2011/08/24/what-are-advantages-of-going-to-college-in-state-vs-out-of-state 
Weiner, Joann. (August 22, 2014). Do the benefits of a college education outweigh the cost? The 
Washington Post. Retrieved April 10th from https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/she-the-people/wp/2014/08/22/do-the-benefits-of-a-college-education-outweigh-the-cost/ 
