Dream function and dream interpretation method 
	Everyone dreams. Dream, as an indispensable part composing our nightlife, expresses tons of information in its unique language. Considering the grotesque and gaudy symbols appearing in your dreams, have you ever been attracted and trying to find out its exciting meaning under its distinguished camouflage? As one of the top psychologists who spent his whole life working on dream interpretation, Sigmund Freud believes that dream disguises its primitive motivation of harmful and malice inner desire and releases it in an obscure expression. In my point of view, Freud's theory better explains the dream function and provides better explanations to dream symbols. 
	In the current psychology society, we have a variety of different dream theories which contain three mainstream views: the Freudian theory, the Adlerian theory and electrophysiological theory. The Freudian dream interpretation theory is now accepted by most of people. Freud believed that dream conceals our deeply desire inside the "unconsciousness" part in our mind. Those desires are often some primary motives of sex or destructive hostility. Freud pointed out that dream prevent some occasion to show those motives in a disguised vague expression and freed us from those hostile motives. The desires are often contorted to some symbolic images but not manifest them directly. Due to this process, we are no more worried about those desires and won't be offended by their often-immoral meanings. 
	Due to the complexity and mysterious of dream field, many different theories still take up some very important room in current psychological society. Carl Jung, the student of Freud, raised up some quietly different ideas from Freud's, considering dream function as ego consolidation. Jung gave out a new concept of "archetype", connecting dream interpretation to mere biological area. With the science developing, psychologists brought out more theories based on other science knowledge, and that's how the other theory against Freudian's, the electrophysiological theory, has been established. Unfortunately, these theories untimely showed their disadvantages and narrowness, failed to move Freudian theory from its position. 
	Despite the large amount of new theories trying to strike the Freudian theory, it still takes up the most important position in current psychological society. Freud, as the first man in psychoanalysis, built his theory under large amount of living cases. He took care of many of his patients, observing and analyzing their behavior during treatment. He drew out his theory after millions of cases and amending it for plenty of times as he found some unscientific parts. He built his theory based on the researching of abundant clinical cases but not merely theoretical analysis. With his attitude of amending and improving himself, he kept the Freudian theory always ahead of game. As the first man in dream area, Freud drew out the revolutionary theory and brought out some abstract concepts that were broadly using in 20s century, scientifically and systematically dividing the conscious into three different functional parts and giving out strong explanations. These cannot be simply denied by some psychologists who are still doing research based on Freud's theory-who can deny a world when his every word is just established on this world basement? Although considering the dream words as so complicated and reasonable, Freud gave out perfect answers towards those common questions in dream analyzing. The answers are still strong enough and cannot be simply denied by other theories. Considering other theories which keep trying to defeat the Freudian's, they are almost too much narrow, establishing only on papers and thoughts but lack of living examples. Comparatively, Freudian theory is more practical in psychoanalysis and it does make great achievements in the mental diseases therapy. 
	After I finished all my researching steps, I finally came out with a result that Freudian theory might be the best one in current psychological society. It has been established based on powerful cases and has a completely theory system which makes it continuously working until now. As the basement of dream interpretation method and psychoanalysis, Freudian theory has been recognized and been broadly used by most of the current psychological society. It regards the dream word depending on human deepest desire and motive, explaining the dreams in the most logical and rational way. Although regarding the particularity of dream analysis field, we still cannot define the Freudian theory as absolutely and forever correct. Yet depending on current science developing level, it would be the most powerful and rational one. We are still working hard on the way of exploring. The world is still full of mystery. And the greatest miracle it has ever create, is man. Jewish said, man thinks, god laughs. We still have so many to find out in scientific researching journey. 
