Argumentative Paper 
December/23th/2015 
Argumentative Paper 
America is the one of the three countries (the other two are Liberia and Myanmar) that do not use the metric system. Out of 196 countries, 98 percent of the countries in the world have adopted the international System of Units, also known as the metric system (Barksdale 2014). Instead, USA uses the U.S. Customary units which is derived from the previous Englishd imperial units. The government tried to adopt the metric system in 1970s and 1990s; however, those attempts failed due to the absence of strict enforcement on those laws, such as the Metric Conversion Act and the Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (Guzman 2015). Even though most people nowadays consider the gains of the metrication very little compared to the efforts that are needed to put into the change, the truth is that replacing the hybrid system with a only the metric system will benefit the nation economically and educationally in the long run. 
The use of metric system has had trouble spreading throughout USA. None of the laws and metrication movement in 1970s and 1990s were successful or even got enough support from the public (Stevenson 2014). People in America are adopted to use the U.S. Customary Units and that is what they have always been using. Speaking from the experience, the transition from a system that is associated with the history of the country, is a difficult transition. If the metric system had been adopted by the USA, America would have finished the metrication a long time ago. America is using the hybrid system which is using both the metric and the U.S. Customary Units in order to embrace the globalization while keeping the culture. It's not necessary to change the whole system into a one universal unit. Uniformity is good, but not in cultural perspective. A measurement system is a big part of the culture and daily habit. Like the famous saying, According to <name>, the <position> of Geophysical and Measurement Analysis at Purdue University, he stated that "if it ain't broke, don't fix it. the current hybrid system is doing fine, there is no need to change the current measuring system to the metric system". The mindset is that the change of the current measurement system would be a struggle. Changing the measurement will cost a lot of money and time, but the government is in debt. The same question is brought up on why should the government put all the efforts and money on the units while there are lot of bigger problems like immigration and civil rights need to be focused on. The best way to run the society is to take the necessity of each problem under consideration, then use the available resources to solve the most urgent ones. The metrication will not be on the list till next century. The opposition seems to be reasonable, but they have flaws. In the following paragraphs I will propose the necessity of the usage of the metric system as the only measurement in USA. 
Some people are saying that the change of the current measurement system would be a struggle because it costs a lot of money and effort. However, the truth is the cost is not as huge as people thought. Compare to the cost of switching the U.S. Customary Units to the metric system, the benefits of switching the units measurement is far-reaching and profound. For instance, many routes of America starts to have digital road signs because it is accurate and the information can be updated fast enough to guide the traffic more efficiently. The use of digital roads sign is a trend in USA, so changing the road sign will not be a matter because it will not cost anything to change the units on the digital screen. The cost of switch to the metric system will be overtaken by the benefits gained from the change really soon, so the concern of money is unnecessary (Marciano 2014). 
The hybrid system is not clear because metric is used in science, this system is used daily in the math field from the U.S. Customary Units, and it causes confusion. America should use the metric system as the only measurement because of the clarity. One example of the misuse of the hybrid system is in September 23, 1998 when NASA lost $125 million Mars orbiter because one engineering team used metric units while another used English units for a key spacecraft operation. As a result, it should have entered the orbit of Mars at 150 km, but instead it went close as 57km so the orbiter crashed (Lloyd 1999). In addition, the misuse of the hybrid system might costs lives sometimes. In 1999, Institute for Safe Medication Practices reported the practitioner misunderstood the grains and grams, which led to a patient receiving 0. 5 grams instead of 0. 5 grains (0. 03 grams). This error was caused by the confusion of using two systems. The metric system is the language of science, this system should only be used in the scientific area. Thus, not using the metric system as the only measurement costs USA a great amount of money already, and the cost is still going up if USA does not take any action. Confusion like this happens everyday and it can all be avoided by changing the hybrid system into a only metric system (Lloyd 1999). 
Unlike the opposition stated, the metric system is easy to master and the change will be adjusted by public very fast. The metric system is easy to learn due to improvements on three aspects: one unit for each physical quantity, decimal system, and prefixes (Marciano 2012). The metric unit is a decimal system which allows conversion to be done without math. For users of the U.S. Customary Units, they have to remember all the units, the conversion factors between the units and math. It is really handy to make conversions in metric system by moving the decimal point right or left. All basic units use the different prefixes to show different quantity. People can tell which of two values is greater immediately, and English units is a way harder system to use compare to metric. For example, 5280 ft equals 1760 yard equals 1 mile. If I ask someone how many yards does 100 feet equal, nobody would know for sure unless they have a calculator. The metric system is a reasonable unit, and it is easy to learn and quick for individuals to calculate. The transition will not be a struggle due to the the metric system has been taught for years, so most people already have a foundation. The change of a daily habit like measurements should started with small steps, like changing the unit ounce on the water bottle to only millimeter or starting to put metric unit on the road signs. People can learn the metric system unconsciously by seeing the metric units everyday. 
USA is the only developed country that has not adopt the metric system yet, while Liberia and Myanmar started their process on the metrication. America might be the only non-Metric country in 5 years and the world is 99 percent metric. The global trends is unstoppable since the French invented the metric system. The urgence of the measurement issue is underrated by the public. The cost of metrication is not as much as people thought, and and the metric system is a superior units on the perspective of convenience, simplicity and universalness (Marciano 2015). The failure of using a single universal measurement in USA wastes massive number of money and time which potentially undermine USA's economy. Thus, using the metric system as the only measurement will eliminate the unnecessary cost, benefits the nation economically and educationally in a long run. 
