Argumentative Paper, Final Draft 
April 17, 2016 
Multiculturalism is important in the society 
	Four hundred years ago, Great Britain settled their first colony in Virginia. Once tobacco was found to be a valuable crop, tons of Europeans started to immigrate to America (Bailyn, 1988). It is the first and longest immigration era in the world. Also, it means that America was going to be a huge multicultural country. Now, people from different cultural backgrounds form a multicultural society, and multiculturalism is the most important component in this huge melting pot. Multiculturalism means trying to appreciate as many different perspectives and social groups as much as possible (B. Mullen, personal interview, March 1, 2016). People in this society do appreciate different cultures, like, universities' dining courts are serving foods from different countries to satisfy people from different cultures. But, if we don't pay attention to multiple cultures in our society, there will be discrimination, prejudice and other negative consequences shown up in our society. Thus, our society will crash. So, multiculturalism is important in society. Although some people feel that multiculturalism increases conflict in society, it actually bonds a group of people together and increases job opportunities for those who express multicultural ideas. 
	However, someone don't support the perspective that multiculturalism is important. Many conflicts arise today due to difference in opinion, belief, and also culture and race. Some say multiculturalism can increase the chance of conflict in society. For example, Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, also known as ISIS, is a worldwide terrorist group who attacked Paris, Yemen, Tunisia, Turkey, Egypt, Brussels and other cities and countries around the world. Yourish, Watkins and Giratikanon (2016) said Only three ISIS members killed more than 100 lives in a day in Paris. People fear about those races and believe that multiculturalism is one of the reasons why they formed such a massive attack. Donald Trump, the candidate for the Republican nomination for the President of the United States in 2016 election, who strongly supports anti-multiculturalism, was interviewed by a campaign press who said, "Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on" (Diamond, 2015). Apparently, Donald Trump wanted to help us figure out what happened with ISIS and Muslims, but banning all of the Muslims entering the U.S. is an unwise idea. For instance, "Muslim charity groups in the United States are too numerous to catalog, though the Bay Area Islamic Networks Group, the UMMA Clinic in Los Angeles, the Chicago-based Inner-City Muslim Action Network and Dearborn's ACCESS are examples of groups that provide crucial services and empower the underprivileged. In 2013, the Muslim charity Helping Hand for Relief and Development (HHRD) was rated among the top 10 charities in the United States" (Hassaballa, 2014). So, we can see that our perceptions on Muslims are wrong, and Trump's method should be banned because those discriminate ideas said by Trump cannot help society relieve the conflict; it is going to evoke more frictions around the world. Thus, anti-multiculturalism is not a wise idea to make our society stay in peace. 
	Some support anti-multiculturalism, but according to Dunt (2013), the majority of people support multiculturalism. I hold the same perspective as other multiculturalism supporters, and I believe it is a necessary component in our society. Multiculturalism can bond our society together. But why is a multicultural mindset important? "The biggest problem of having many groups in society is the war of the parts against the whole. Separately they don't have the power to resolve a problem, but because they are all tied together, one part can hold up the others for ransom -- everything can be frozen if one group's efforts are focused on thwarting another's" (Brownlee, 2015). Indeed, as a community in the society, we need to collaborate with other community to resolve social issues together. Also, multiculturalism will help us make more effective communications and wiser decisions. Barack Hussein Obama, is the first African American President of the United States, who stated that multiculturalism is a national strength (Obama, 2009). After Obama pose this idea on his inaugural address, "he has deliberately set out to select a diverse cabinet, based on the premise that multicultural individuals have insights, skills, and unique psychological experiences that contribute to society" (Nguyen & Benet-Mart"nez, 2010). Thus we have more international as well as domestic intercultural contact opportunity among different ethics and communities. 
	After I talked about the multiculturalism in our society, I found out that people who have multicultural identity background have more benefits than the people who don't. "As a college student, especially for the international ones who are about to graduate, they have a higher chance to be hired if they have multicultural perspective" (B. Mullen, personal communication, March 1, 2016). The multicultural perspective will help employers to expand their market to other countries in the world, and they will have a more economical opportunity. Use China as a reference. Chairman Deng initiated economic reforms in 1978. Chinese economy grew significantly than before because government used to limit the international trading opportunity. Thus, we can easily find that people with multicultural mindsets have higher chance of making society better. 
	Multiculturalism is not all about a group of people. As an individual, multicultural identity enriches everyone's life when there is shared knowledge of others' cultures. For me, as an example, after I see and experienced western cultures, I can use multiple perspectives to think through the same question. It helped me a lot on solving problems because the perspective from my native culture is a convention, and the perspectives from other cultures are the ones I have never thought about, so I can combine them, take the pros of those single perspectives and form a new considerable multicultural angle. Thus multiculturalism is important in our society. 
So we can easily draw a conclusion that multiculturalism is important in the society, and it can also bond a group of people together. More and more intercultural, intercontinental and international contact happens nowadays. Multiculturalism should be a key to solve problems for many situation, and people have started to pay attention to different cultural backgrounds. Like Katersky and Shapiro (2016) said the Asian American NYPD police officer Peter Liang, who accidentally shot a wall and bullet ricocheted and killed a person is not going to face jail time. Finally, I hope everyone can see the importance of multiculturalism and use multicultural perspective to benefit yourself in daily life. 
Reference: 
Bailyn, B (1988), Voyagers to the West: A Passage in the Peopling of America on the Eve of the Revolution (pp. 21-23). New York, NY: Alfred A. Knopf. 
Brownlee, T. (2015). Chapter 27. Cultural Competence in a Multicultural World, Section 8. Multicultural Collaboration, from the community tool box: http://ctb.ku.edu/en/table-of-contents/culture/cultural-competence/multicultural-collaboration/main 
Diamond, J (2015). Donald Trump: Ban all Muslim travel to U.S., from CNN: http://www.cnn.com/2015/12/07/politics/donald-trump-muslim-ban-immigration/ 
Dunt, I. (2013). Poll reveals huge public support for multiculturalism, from politics.co.uk: http://www.politics.co.uk/blogs/2013/04/19/poll-reveals-huge-public-support-for-multiculturalism 
Hassaballa, H. (2014). Muslims Don't Contribute to America? Think Again, from Chicago Now: http://www.chicagonow.com/midwestern-muslim/2014/01/muslims-dont-contribute-to-america-think-again/ 
Katersky, A & Shapiro, E (2016). No Jail Time for Ex-NYPD Officer Peter Liang After Manslaughter Conviction Reduced to Criminally Negligent Homicide, from ABC News: http://abcnews.go.com/US/nypd-officer-peter-liang-sentenced-deadly-stairwell-shooting/story?id=38507440 
Nguyen, A.-M. D., & Benet-Mart"nez, V. (2010). Multicultural identity: What it is and why it matters. In R. Crisp (Ed.), The psychology of social and cultural diversity (pp. 87-114). 
Obama, B. H. (2009). Inaugural address. Retrieved July 8, 2009, from http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/inaugural-address/ 
Yourish, K & Watkins, D & Giratikanon, T (2016). Where ISIS Has Directed and Inspired Attacks Around the World, from The New York Times: http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/06/17/world/middleeast/map-isis-attacks-around-the-world.html?_r=0 
Dear reader, 
	This is the final draft of the final paper in this course. I did a lot of work to revise it, went to the writing lab three four times to make sure my paper looks perfect. I really hope my effort can be paid off. I fixed tons of contents which are not make sense, like I put too much ideas in those two argument paragraphs. Also I learned how to correctly use citations, like put all of the authors name in the text and don't put interview sources in the reference list. I learned too much on this course, and I will memorize those valuable moments we had in this course. Thank you! 
