Some Rules of Exercise Must Be Followed 
	These years, more and more people start to work out in order to obtain more physically attractive bodies and healthier lifestyles. I am also a big fan of exercising. I have been working out for 2 years, and I really enjoy it. Every time I see myself in the mirror, I feel really pleasant because I can clearly recognize the result of my effort. However, happiness is not the only thing work out gives me. There is also some knowledge I attained when I try to explore the most appropriate ways to work out.	There are always arguments about if there are some specific ways or rules to follow. Some people think there are no specific rules to follow when working out, because everybody has different habit; whatever fits them the most is the best. I believe that although people are admittedly different, there are a series of basic rules everybody has to keep in mind. Although people has different habit, their body structures are similar. For that reason, there must be some specific rules of exercise that fit everybody. 
	First of all, since people have similar body structures, the way bodies react to food intake should be similar too. According to a study by Meyer, Manore and Beming (2012), food intake is the only way people can restore energy loss during working out, and there are specific rules to follow when one choose food after exercising. There are three things need to be paid attention to - protein, carbohydrates and water. Protein is a basic ingredient of muscle. After working out, muscles have done plenty of work and lost some energy. It makes the muscles have the trend to grow. Only with enough protein intake, the muscles could grow in a decent condition. Thus, protein intake is significant for those who wants to build muscles. Good protein sources are chicken, beef, fish, egg whites and protein powder (Aceto, 2005). Carbohydrates, normally called sugar, together with water assists metabolism, which is a body function that consumes body fat (Meyer, Manore and Beming, 2012). Aceto (2005) states that fruits, vegetables, oatmeal, potatoes, rice and pasta are decent choices for carbohydrate intake. In order to build a more physically attractive body, one needs to ingest adequate protein to build muscle and proper amount of carbohydrate as well as water to consume body fat. Therefore, due to the similarity of how protein, carbohydrate and water affects bodybuilding, I believe there are some specific rules must be followed when choosing food. 
Second, efficiency is one of the most important thing when working out. In the interview I conducted with a professional fitness trainer named Gefeng, he claimed that choosing a proper location to work out is essential because it affects the efficiency. For example, going to a gym provides higher efficiency than at home, because first of all the big equipment in the gym helps people to work out more effectively. Also, the guidance and protection from fitness trainers helps to improve efficiency too (personal communication, October 16, 2014). In a following interview, Gefeng stated that place is not the only thing that affects exercise efficiency. Exercise activities, length of working out period and frequency also play important roles in efficiency. How those things affects efficiency does not really differ between different people, because people's bodies have very similar reaction to how they exercise (personal communication, December 10, 2014). Thus, I have reasons to believe that there are some rules need to be remembered considering the efficiency. 
		Another aspect needs consideration is injury prevention. Injury is the last thing one would want when doing sports, because it hurts and slows one's speed of achieving his/her fitness goal by keeping him/her away from the gym for a while. According to article What Are Sports Injuries (2009), accidents, poor training practices, improper gear, improper body condition and lack of preparation activities can all possibly lead to sports injury. People could get injured due to similar reasons, because their body structures are similar. Hence, no matter how different people are from each other, I believe there are rules to keep in mind in order to prevent injury. Article 10 Tips to Prevent Injuries When You Exercise (2013) claimed that there are some tips one should remember when exercising. And the tips provided in it are all focused on the same cause of injury that was described in article What Are Sports Injuries (2009). Based on these two articles, I believe exercise injuries are all caused by similar reasons, and there are some specific things people can do to avoid getting injured. 
	All the information above showed that when working out, there are some particular rules to keep in mind considering things like food choice, location, injury prevention and so on. For each aspect, people should do sufficient study in order to obtain enough knowledge. Only if people discover proper rules of exercising and follow them properly, they can work out effectively and safely. 
