Dose music more benefit to workout? 
As the technology develops, music player is getting thinner and lighter. To shape figure and be healthier,a larger number of people chose to take their Ipod with themselves to go to gym Thus here comes an controversial issue if we should listen to music while doing exercise or not. From my point of view,I strongly recommend people to use music to help themselves get better workout results. Here are three of my concerns. 
The most obvious factor why music is benefit to exercise is that music is a good distraction to make people feel less exhausted. When people listening to music they pay less attention to their physical sore but more to the music and they can feel much more relaxed. According to Ferris Jabrs's claim in his study in 2012, usually brain orders people's body to take a break after they work out for a while. However, when people listen to music while working out, music are able to distract some of the brain's conscious attention to the physically discomforts so that their bodies will be less aware of negative feelings. Therefore, athletes will feel less eager to have a rest and will keep training for a longer period of time. 
The second reason I think music is good to workout is that listening to music also boost high-intensity workout. High intensity is a daunting challenge for people to exercise for a long time. But music has tremendous power to motivate people to exercise. when people are listening to music, they would pay more attention to the lyrics and the emotion of the song, when they are motivated by the song, people cares less about the negative feeling of the workout but tend to keep going. According to a new study by Matthew Stork, athletes did more amount of exercise using the same amount of time when they were equipped with music, but didn't feel more uncomfortable. Which means music bring more intensity but no more discomfort. 
Last but not least, music is also a good way to decease energy cost while working out. Because when people synchronize movements to music, they can keep pace and their breath fluctuates in a small range. At the same time, keep steady pace and breath results in less burden for the operation of heart and lung. An article from wall street journal "Optimal Music for the Gym" suggests music that between around 125 and 140 beats per minute usually can be the right tempo to help synchronize movements to music, which helps bodies to handle more exertion. And then movements requires less oxygen uptake, therefore, less energy would be needed. 
Just as a coin has two sides. There are some people holds opposite opinion. They claim that it's not safe if athletes don't focus on the workouts. Because when people are doing outdoor marathon, they need to pay enough attention to the potential danger in the road such as bikes, cars and the uneven surface beneath the feet. However, when wearing a headphone, focus on the songs, runners may not able to hear he car horn and the reaction time is also way slower. Thus the possibility of getting hurt is much higher. 
From different aspects of analyzes above, the advantages and disadvantages of the music to the workout is clear. Although music may distract people from danger it is still a good helper to reduce physical exhaust and make workout easier, boost high-intensity workouts, adjust workout pace and breath to reduce energy cost as well. Thus for the sake of getting better workout effect.I hold the view that people should take their ipod with them to get through the workout time in their next training. 
Work Cited Page 
Jabr, Ferris. "Let's Get Physical: The Psychology of Effective Workout Music." Scientific 
American Global RSS. Scientific American, 20 Mar. 2013. Web. 13 Nov. 2014. 
Reddy, Sumathi. "Optimal Music for the Gym." The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & 
Company, 1 Apr. 2013. Web. 14 Nov. 2014. 
Reynolds, Gretchen. "How Music Can Boost a High-Intensity Workout." Well How Music 
Can Boost a High Intensity Workout Comments. The New York Times, 22 Oct. 2014. 
Web. 14 Nov. 2014. 
