Multilingual Environment for Children 
Introduction 
Nowadays, multilingualism seems has become a social phenomenon because of the globalization. Therefore, many parents are willing to raise their children with multiple languages, in order to make them more competitive in the future. However, some people suggest multilingualism can also negatively affects children. Through my research on this topic, I believe children who grow up in multilingual environments have more benefits compared with their monolingual peers. Multilingualism for children should be promoted. In this essay, I will discuss the possible benefits, as well as the drawbacks caused by multilingual environments. The efficient methods to raise children to be multilingual will also be included. 
Positive effects brought by multilingual environment? 
Many people believe multilingual environments could make children's brains more active, therefore they would be much smarter than their monolingual peers. According to Professor Benedicto (2015), almost all the research shows that multilingual children have cognitive advantages (personal communication). Some researchers suggest, compared to their monolingual peers, bilingual children may be better at verbal working memory performance (Engel de Abreu, 2011, p534). Others suggest multilingual children may perform better on tasks about attention (Videsott, Della Rosa, Wiater, Franceschini & Abutalebi, 2012, p893). 
The results of the experiment conducted by Videsott, Della Rosa, Wiater, Franceschini and Abutalebi show that the all three sections of the Attentional Network Test (ANT) were improved by the effect of children's multilingual ability (Videsott, Della Rosa, Wiater, Franceschini & Abutalebi, 2012, p893). Videsott et al. (2012) stated that multilingual children's alerting network systems are highly boosted by their linguistic ability. Accordingly, they noted that the ability of cognition could be decided by the proficiency of children's linguistic abilities (p894), which shows multilingual children have cognitive advantages. 
The experiment done by Engel de Abreu studies on whether bilingual children are better at verbal working memory performance compared to their monolingual peers. According to the experiment, the results were actually opposite to the hypothesis. The results show that the development of working memory is not improved by the bilingualism of early childhood (Engel de Abreu, 2011, p535). However that may be only because bilingual children do not have as much exposure to the tested language as much as their monolingual peers do (Engel de Abreu, 2011, p535). The experiment method was unfair to the bilingual children and thus the results are not valid. Therefore the bilingual children may still have better working memory than their monolingual peers. 
Negative influences of multilingual environment? 
Although multilingualism, as one result of globalization, has become more important for the future of children today, some people suggest it may cause some language disorders related to children's development. They fear multilingualism might put too much pressure on a child's underdeveloped brain. The overloaded pressure then may cause language disorders for children, such as specific language impairment (SLI), which is defined as "those with a language quotient more than one standard deviation below the mean and below the general developmental quotient in children with normal general developmental quotient, but without neurological or other organic diseases" (Cheuk, Wong & Leung, 2005, p303). 
Some researchers conducted a study on the <place> Chinese children who had been diagnosed with SLI to find out if multilingual home environments would cause SLI. The results of the study showed a connection between exposure to multiple languages and the children with SLI. However it also suggested that children who do not suffer SLI, are not affected by their multilingual environment (Cheuk et al., 2005, p311). In addition, this experiment chose children who had been diagnosed with SLI as the sample, which cannot validly represent all the children. Therefore the results of this experiment are inaccurate. According to Professor Benedicto (2015), there is no negative effect of multilingualism. SLI is not related to multilingualism, it is more related to biology (personal communication). There is no evidence shows multilingual environments are the causes of the SLI. 
How to raise children to be multilingual efficiently? 
When children are raised in a multilingual environment, they acquire the languages automatically. However in order to have natural multiple languages acquisition, the children needed to be exposed to multiple languages daily at enough quantity. The exact amount has not been determined yet, but the amount of exposure to each language should be almost equal (Benedicto, 2015, personal communication). Professor Benedicto (2015) also mentioned our linguistic abilities are better when we are younger. Therefore children also should be exposed to multiple languages as young as possible (personal communication). 
Conclusion 
Multilingual environments benefit children. Multilingual children tend to have cognitive advantages such as better attention and working memory. Multilingualism for children should be promoted since so far there are only benefits but no drawbacks. In order to raise children to be multilingual efficiently and gain those benefits, parents should provide children environments where the children could be exposed to multiple languages daily at enough quantity. 
