Online Multi-player Games 
As the computer games have developed, the online multi-player games have developed. At present, online multi-player games have become social experience for players. These games create the virtual spaces for player and provide them the chances of social interaction. Learning how to participate in social groups and develop socially are very important to people. So, online multi-player games help players to develop their social skills because they provide opportunities for them to cooperate and communicate with each other. 
Players will develop their teamwork skills through playing the games because it is impossible for an individual to do everything in multi-player games. The teamwork is the essence of multi-player games. Players must contribute to coordination to finish the tasks. When players work together, they can be more effective than any of them could be on their own. 
Playing online multi-player games gives the players chances to participate more in the game community. The games help players do more social interactions through the Internet instead of facing each other. If the players only click on the bottom and keep quiet all the time, they probably will feel bored because they lose communication with other players because communication is part of multi-player games. However, most people have stereotype that people who play much online games are not familiar with real life and do not like to talk because they pay too much attention to computer games. 
Leadership skills of people will developed more and more through the game experience. Most multi-player games require players to form as groups. Usually, advanced players need to be leader and and teach newcomers what they are supposed to do in the matches because his friends do not know how to play their roles. There was a data set from Georgia Institute of Technology in 2010. It showed that over 90% people who have ever played online multi-player games had been once the leader of an important academic search. However, in the people who never plays online multi-player games, the percentage is smaller. It happened because multi-player games may help players build up self confidence when they communicate and organize their group members. 
