P5d3_arp 
Dec. 11, 2015 
Strategy based on team or based on single players, which one is better? 
In the modern basketball match, the single player's ability seems more and more significant to a basketball team's success. As the basketball's training system and NBA draft become better and better, the players who have great abilities emerge in large numbers, like Le Bron James, Kevin Durant, and Allen Iverson, etc. All of these players have astonishing abilities and influence the team's success. But in my opinion, we still can't ignore the basketball's teamwork. Although the single player's ability is important, he strategy also should based on whole team. In the history of NBA, most of the champion are great teams with perfect strategy which based on team. Just like Spurs, 03-04 season's Piston, etc. These teams didn't have absolute core of strategy or MVP of regular season, but everyone in the team are indispensable. So in the next three paragraphs, I will mainly talk about three points to discuss why strategies which based on team will better than strategies which based on single player. 
First of all, basketball is a teamwork sports. In a formal and professional basketball match, we need five players on the court and at least fifteen players in a team. We can find out that one player can't against five players on the court. If the coach commends a player to play for 48 minutes (the time of a formal NBA basketball match) on the court, he/she will feels tried and becomes easy to be injured. And he/she will be countered by the opponents. Take the 06-07 season's Cleveland Cavaliers for example, in this season's playoffs, Le Bron James used his own power to lead the Cavaliers into the finals, but his opponent in the finals is Spurs, a team with perfect teamwork. Spurs teamwork made Le Bron can't play like first three series. At the end, Spurs won the game as easy as blowing dust off the table. Basketball teamwork is in fact very important as it allows the team to function together and not individually. (Lorelie,2012) All the players on the court must work together in order to accomplish the goals that are set forth by you the coach.(Trent Ryan, 2015) There are a lot of people thought one player with great talent also can lead the team to get the success, like 00-01 season's Allen Iverson. It seems that Iverson used his own power brought the team into the Finals. And his teammates are not as strong as him. But I need to emphasize that 76ers's coach, Larry Brown, one of the best coach in NBA's history, emphasized the teamwork and playing basketball in a correct way. His main strategy is based on whole team instead of Iverson. 
The second part of the analysis will consider the basketball strategy's applying. In the NBA's history, almost all of the basketball strategies which got success are based on the teamwork. Single player's ability is not such important as we thought. Take the famous triangle offense used by Phil Jackson for example, this basketball strategy is based on the 5 players passing the ball in a very quick way. It demands the team performs a perfect teamwork so that they can get the chances to throw the ball. The truth is you will often find a group composed of individuals with extraordinary skills, but because they all think of themselves as superstar players and dismiss working collectively as a team, they end up losing to inferior teams that work closely together to cover each other's shortcomings.(Lorelie, 2012) There are some people will thought that a team can get success without a good strategy which based on team work, like 08-09 season's Boston Celtics and 12-13 season's Miami Heat. They got success by Three Bigs ( the team's core is three players with remarkable abilities) . As a matter of fact, their strategy is based on the three players, which demand them organize the offense and defense. It also requires a perfect cooperation between Big Three and other players. 
The final level of the analysis consists of single player's status. It is noticeable that the team which rely on one or two star to play the game will take a high risk. The risk is that once these superstars players are injured or too tired to play a good performance, the team will be influenced a lot. Take the last season's Oklahoma City Thunder for example, their superstar player Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook are injured in regular game so that they couldn't go into playoffs. It is very surprised that they couldn't make it, because they got the tickets of the playoffs in last 5 seasons and went into the finals. To sum up, a great team need a stable status instead of a high-risky condition. 
In conclusion, the team which want to get success need a strategy which based on the whole team. When your team helps each other out, it naturally builds that togetherness that you want. This unity leads to the extra pass being made, teammates setting better screens for each other, and players playing harder for each other. (John Haefner) So that a basketball will get a success and build an empire in the history. 
Reference 
Lorelie(2012) Basketball Teamwork - How Important is it? is retrieved from 
https://basketball91.com/tips/basketball-teamwork-how-important-is-it/#. Vk32T3h3LKo 
Joe Haefner(2015) Creating Team Unity with Coach K is retrieved from 
https://www.breakthroughbasketball.com/blog/index.php/creating-team-unity-with-coach-k/ 
Trent Ryan(2014) 5 proven ways to build and maintain team chemistry over the course of a season. is retrieved from 
https://www.breakthroughbasketball.com/coaching/team-chemistry.html 
