I have already synthesized 3 published articles about the influences of people's choosing of eating at home and dining out, but I still didn't figure out the eater's doubts clearly. Today, this paper will analyze the dialectical relationship between the influences for the health and eating way. 
I should declared my position at beginning again: eating at home more often could be better. 
Firstly, eating out equals to eating more. It is generally known that avoiding foods high in fat, sugar, salt and calories, along with sugary drinks, can reduce the risk of cancer, as can limiting our consumption of meats, especially processed meats. However, restaurant always serves the high-calories and high-salt diet in order to attract and lock the eater's taste. The reason for people really likes to eat in the restaurant is the food in the restaurant's food taste better than the home cooked food, and in the same time, they eat more than at home. 
Secondly, it is not only that people have no way to get the content of food, they also don' know the procedures and recourse of foods in their dishes. Restaurant food also faces the hygiene problems. Including the restaurant owners, every business wants to make more profits in the market. They should improve their efficiency and cut the costs to make more profits. For example, using the expired food and buying the cheap raw materials for cooking can help them save lots of costs. 
Lastly, eating at home makes a family more harmony even. Based on the investigation of primary students, the children who have more regular family meals at home can get better grades than the children who always eaten in the restaurants. Why? Eating at home seems too much harder for people than before, because they don't have enough time to spent at home. 
In the same time, eaters also raised many problems in the opposite. 
The first argument is that people in nowadays are really busy, rarely of them have enough time to cook at home everyday. Also some people told me that their working place is really far from their home, they don't have enough time to back to home every lunch. What I want to say is if you have time to eating at home, you should cook for yourselves, but if you don't have enough time, you can eat in the restaurant. But you should pay more attentions on the menus. If you can, please try to analysis the food in the restaurant every meal. In weeks or holiday, if you have enough time to prepare a meal at home, you will better to cook a deliberate for families. Cooking real food is a revolutionary act. We have lost the means to care for ourselves. We have now risen the second generation of Americans who don't know how to cook. The average child in America doesn't know how to identify even the most basic vegetables and fruit Kids don't know where their food comes from or even that it grows on a farm. Cooking means microwaving. Food comes in boxes, plastic bags, and cans. Also, eating in the restaurant also has some invisible charges: the time costs and money costs. You should pay for the parking fees and in some big cities you even need to charge more time on the way to the restaurant because of the traffic jams. Dining out should be the solution of last resort. 
The second argument is that few restaurants sometimes can serve better food which is more scientific than the home made food. Because chiefs are the people who get the professional education for cooking, and they know which kinds of collocation of the foods together can serve more nutrition. However, what I want to say is I was not denied that the few restaurant food could also be healthy. But most restaurants are just wanted to attract more eaters through using MSG or artificial flavors. I think if people want to make healthier and delicious food, they can try to learn some food science knowledge or the nutrition knowledge, which is easily to understand. 
Food science knowledge has the potential to help address some of the regions major food and health concerns, and the improvement of eating habit considerations can help pave the way. 
Based on all of my words, I assert people to eat at home more often than eat out. Restaurant should be your last choice for eating. Rebuild your kitchen and restart your cooking from today can solve your healthy problems or even "safe your life". 
