Apr 15, 2016 
Children raising up by gay or lesbian couples are the same with other kids 
Introduction 
Many debates about gay and lesbian couples have become burning issues as a result of the legalization of same-sex marriage. One of the most hotly debated topic is about the children raising up by same-sexual parents. Some people have doubts about their capabilities of taking care of a baby and worry about the effects of having two mothers or two fathers on the children. Besides, although I am very glad to see more and more people showing their tolerance and understanding to the gay and lesbian couples and their children, however, through some social platforms like Facebook or You Tube and some researches, we still can see there still are some stress from the public to these parents and their children. Or at schools, children raising up by gay or lesbian couples could be facing up with the situations of being laughed or having fun by other children. And even worse, high profile media reports of young people committing suicide after experiencing bullying have propelled a national conversation about the nature and scope of this problem and the means to address it. [1] In order to let everyone has a better understanding about these kids and solving the prejudice or misunderstanding and therefore give these kids a better growth environment, I decide to do this research, and show that children raising up by gay or lesbian couples are the same with other kids. They are deserved to be treated equally. 
Body 
While thinking about the children adopted by gay and lesbian couples, people will think that these are more possible to be homosexual contrary to children raised by heterosexual parents as a result of emulation. However, views like this usually contains their subjective wishes. People always go from individual initiative to this problem. We cannot draw too firm conclusions. A result from Diana Baumrind, a psychologist at the University of California, Berkeley shows that "Studies to date show few differences among children of lesbian, gay, and heterosexual couples," only 2% more children living with same-sex parents could be homosexual comparing to the data during other children, which is 7%. [1] This difference even can be ignored sometimes. Most of these children are still like others are heterosexual. And we can also briefly assume that actually the percentage of becoming homosexual in children raising up by heterosexual parents actually can be larger than what we collected and thought. Comparing to the children raising up by gay or lesbian couples, these children cannot get enough support or understanding from their family. They might not be brave enough to speak out, and could be too confused and overwhelmed to face their sexual orientation and gender role behavior. Even worse, they could get married with others and then results in the unhappy marriages and families. For the children raising up by two mothers or two fathers, they could get a better understanding and support from their family to homosexual and their sex-regardless true love. Therefore, they are more bravely to show their sexual orientation and to find their true love or soul partner. So, if we discussing this question collecting with the result of the previous results, we can see that children from same-sex families are actually the same like others in the sexual orientation aspect. They are not different at all. 
Except from the sexual orientation, people also have some suspects about their children's gender role behaviors. Like for the scholasticisms to boys, machismo or loving sports. And for girls, most of them will like pink and Barbie. [2]. That is where a problem come from, they think boys with two mothers could be too girly, even for boys with two father and the girls could be too boyish comparing to other children. Because they think that these children could like to emulate their parents like the boy might like emulate the father who always play the role of a mother let along lesbian couples. However, like in our family, there are always someone plays the role of mother and another plays the role of father. Boys with lesbian couples still have a spiritual father to tell him how to be a good boy, so are they for the girls in the same situation. Besides, actually, there is no strict dividing line for what is girly and what is not girly. Could we say a boy is too girly if he did not like sports but like ballet? Their gender role behavior always connected with their habits and interests. So, the question like whether a boy is girly or not usually cannot be defined by subjective views. And if we go deeper, lets talk about the transvestism. The reasons of a child becoming a transvestism are multiple. It could be from the social medium or from the psychological shadow during the childhood.[2] Considering to these possible reasons, this possibility also exists among other children. Gay or lesbian couples usually are very normal, just like you and me. We cannot just pin this blame on them just because their lover is the same sex as them. So, as we can see, this point of view still cannot be verified correctly. We should not have this kind of prejudice to these children and their parents. For instance, if there was a aircraft accident, people could be take delight in lambasting the mistakes of their stuffs and managers. However, they might do not care about the traffic accidences. After all, that is much more normal than the previous one, right? So sometimes, it could just because we give this a precondition, and then we will overstate the significance unconsciously. Is that really because they have gay or lesbian parents? I do not think so. 
Actually, before the population of the debates about the same-sex couples, some people had did lots of researches about the children raising up by gay or lesbian parents. From the previous researches and surveys, Professor Waterman, Jill claimed that although some researches suggest that gay and lesbian adoptive parents should experience the transition to parenthood quite differently from heterosexual adoptive parents, the limited research directly comparing their experiences suggests that they are generally similar. And children with gay or lesbian parents are like every kids, they will face their own adolescence problems and they will meet their first love. Just like anyone around you. [3]. Besidess, the Professor Cycle Renee Mccann is more focused on the positive side, like that the children usually are more tolerant and open to the variety, or they will be more patient and carefully when with two mothers.[4]. 
Conclusion 
	Over the whole, we can see that children raising up by gay or lesbian couples are the same with other children. They do not have any difference in multiple aspects, even for the sexual orientation. We should not have a rational and impartial view to this point and give more tolerance and understanding of raising a child to gay or lesbian couples. If most of us have this awareness, the children could also have a happier childhood without laughing and having fun from other kids. 
