Friends are the most influential matter 
At night, look around, how many college students are standing outside of the street bars? Almost every night is a drinking night for college students. If you focus on the consequences of alcohol drinking on campus, you need to consider reducing the rate of accidents. Among all reasons students try to drink excessively, the most important matter is the influence by their social group. In the beginning of college, all students form a group and tend to remain in the group for the rest of their college years. On the other hand, each person can be the most influential to each other. Following two aspects of college life make it an ideal environment in which to study peer influence on alcohol use. 
First of all, there is a noticeable shift in influence from parents to peers during college. Friends and family are the most influential to the development of the child. In early age of the child, parents have a strong influence on the child's attitudes and behaviors. As the child gets into adolescence, they spend less time with their parents and more time with friends, getting away from parental guardianship. Peers become increasingly significant and are relatively independent from their parents. This process heightens when the child enters college. Broadening the experiences from high school to college, students seek to establish a peer network that can be a source of support and intimacy, and assist the transition to college by providing role models and social opportunities. Frequent usage of alcohol assists a fresh outlook of a freshman's image as well as freedom from parents. 
Secondly, the trend of social lubricant contributes to peer influence on their social group's attitudes and behaviors. Alcohol is the obvious part of the college life, present at most social functions and part of many peer interactions. Most students begin drinking alcohol in a first year of college. Many have a built-up point of view as a place to drink excessively while in college life. Because peers are social lubricant to each other, they are the most influential to each other on alcohol usage. Most of the associates from college will be drinkers: research indicating that four out of five college student drink. In addition, college friends tend to be more favoring of alcohol usage. 
To sum up both of aspects of college life make it an ideal environment in which to study peer influence on alcohol use, peers play a considerable role in the influence of alcohol usage in college students. To develop a peer network during college life, students immerse themselves in the social group. The frequency of alcohol usage on campus makes it likely that students will encounter peer drinking levels and alcohol-related attitudes unlike anything encountered before. Exposure to such drinking often leads to increased alcohol use: students residing in places where ''heavy drinking is approved and where alcoholic beverages and the places to consume them are readily available will drink relatively heavy on the average''(Schall, Kemeny, & Maltzman, 1992, p. 134). Thus, students' attitudes and behaviors from their experience are constantly connected to individual identity. 
In myself, I have had a long relationship with my classmates from freshman year, and we always drink whenever we all meet at somewhere. Based on my experience, all students form a group and tend to remain in the group for the rest of their college years. Social Lubricant can be the most significant thing for college students and it can be the best way to assist student to stay on the right track during their memories from now on. The social lubricant always become the most influential part of life and my colleagues from freshman year in Purdue are my group of drinkers. Furthermore, based on my research and interview, I have learned that the friendship from college acts the primary role of building up its own identity. Strongly supporting on the side of the statement of my paper, social group, right now for college students, can be the friendship for the rest of life so that it is very important for students to make a right decision. 
