P5d1_arp 
April 7th 2016 
Argumentation of Waley's The Book of Songs 
The submitted proposal, interview, and synthesis paper have gathered evidence concerning the value of Arthur Waley's original English translation of Shijing, which is titled The Book of Songs. It is important to note that Waley abandoned the traditional order of Shijing using the structure based on subject matters. His literal translation lacked attention to syntax and diction and contained 290 poems omitting 15 classical political laments. Moreover, according to Raft (2012), the author replaced Chinese poetic language with mimetic form and prose sense considering the "limits" of the former as a "justification" to impose the said translation techniques (p. 122). To this end, there are a number of differences between Waley's book and original Shijing. Nonetheless, one can claim that "The Book of Songs" has a unique intellectual and aesthetic value. In particular, Waley was capable of conveying the complex meaning of Shijing to the general reader with a suitable death and natural sounding voice. He was one of the scholars who initiated and inspired the English tradition of scientific studies of Chinese classics, including Shijing. Furthermore, his interpretation notes and comparative anthropological analysis contributed to the objective inter-cultural philological knowledge of the text. 
First, one should point to the phenomenon of a specific culture and philosophy of translation. It manifests itself in a variety of things ranging from the focus on a specific audience to the careful presentation of the text taking into account the design of footnotes and comments to satisfy the expectations of the targeted readers. In this sense, although Schaberg (1999) claimed that Waley's translation remained interesting for scholars, teachers, and casual readers, one should take into account the presence of other, including more academically profound, English translations and interpretations of Shijing. At the same time, one should consider the originality Waley's approach to grouping sections of the book from the point of view of his goal to convey its meaning to a wide audience of readers. Apparently, many parts of The Book of Songs do not strictly match the original. Nevertheless, the author's intention was to create a text that can overcome the cross-cultural gap and to introduce a version of Shijing that could really attract the general reader to the text of the poem and the early Chinese culture at large. Moreover, the text has a fairly universal interpretive depth and is not content with merely delivering the meaning of a certain limited aspect, such as the attitude of the Chinese people towards the stories Shijing in a certain historical period. One can claim that the author coped with this task brilliantly thanks to his unique approach to the presentation of poetry in translation and extraordinary poetic talent. In this sense, The Book of Songs is the best option for the initial acquaintance with the Shijing in English. 
On the other hand, Waley was one of the first English-speaking scholars who had the goal of serious study of early Chinese culture and, in particular, Shijing. From this standpoint, it is difficult to overestimate the value of "The Book of Songs," as this "imperfect" version inspired generations of translators and different groups of readers to further, more in-depth study of the Chinese classic texts. It should be noted that, according to Schaberg (1999), Waley remains the best-selling contemporary sinologist. Thus, the author has managed to overcome the most serious misconceptions inherent in his generation of scientists in relation to the Chinese literary works. At the same time, he shared some of their misconceptions about Chinese poetry. To this end, according to the remark of Raft (2012), Waley failed to consider the merits of the Chinese poetic language focusing primarily certain "narrative" of the poems, and aiming to translate what the latter were saying rather than how (p. 127). 
Finally, Waley's interpretation contributed to the overall inter-cultural commentarial tradition of Shijing. According to Lin (2015), it is impossible to exhaust the rich philosophical, historical, anthropological, and religious meanings of the discussed text. However, Waley was able to present the critical in-depth interpretation of the unsullied Shijing applying his own powerful historical worldview and various anthropological, philological, and poetic recourses. To this end, the author made valuable efforts to objectively unravel the enigma of Shijing, which makes "The Book of Songs" interesting for both Chinese and English scholars. 
Thus, one can claim that Shijing is a complex text comprising various hermeneutic aspects. It includes the text's original meaning, commentarial tradition, the attitude of particular readers, and the specific cultural role in certain historical period. To this end, the paper has suggested that Waley's "The Book of Songs," despite its differences from the original, has a unique intellectual and aesthetic value. It is suitable in depth for general audience. It was among the first English works to inspire the tradition of Chinese studies. It also contributed to solving the inter-cultural enigma of Shijing. However, it is important to consider specific limitations of Waley's translation with respect to the philosophy of translation, certain misconceptions concerning the Chinese poetry, and its academic value. 
Bibliography 
Lin, Q. (2015). Philology, anthropology and poetry in Arthur Waley's translation of the Shijing (Master's thesis, Lingnan University, Hong Kong). Retrieved from http://commons.ln.edu.hk/tran_etd/15 
Raft, Z. (2012). The limits of translation: Method in Arthur Waley's translations of Chinese poetry. Third Series 25(2): 79-128. 
Schaberg, D. (1999). Reviewed work: The Book of Songs by Arthur Waley, Joseph R. Allen. Chinese Literature: Essays 21: 177-182. 
2 
