Need for Improvements of Accessible Facilities in US 
Based on the report on disability population released by the U.S. Census Bureau in 2012, people with disability accounted for about 20 percent of the whole US population and 30. 6 million of them have mobility impairments (Bernstein, 2012). American is one of the countries which have the most developed and excellent land-use accessible facilities in the world, and the facilities for disabled people are relatively widespread in US as well. Therefore, an argument has been put forward as to whether American need to invest in further improvements of land-use accessible facilities. In my opinion, further improvements of land-use accessible facilities is necessary and indispensable to not only solve the existing problems of unbalanced distribution and inappropriateness of land-use accessible facilities in some places, but also produce more effective facilities which enable disabled people to entertain. 
The first problem is that some places have severe deficiency of accessible facilities for disabled people, especially in aspect of transportation. According to the article, entitled Universal Design Means Accessibility for One and All (Zimmermann, 2006), around one third of rural area lack of land-use accessible facilities. In fact, this unbalanced accessible transportation system has led to many big social problems recently, such as the issues with respect to education and social economy. On one hand, Deficient transportation system led to an educational issue because of the lack of accessible facilities in vehicles for school. For example, in some rural areas, wheelchair ramps are not available for all buses, therefore even the arrival to school is a big challenge for them. If people with disabilities are not able to enjoy urban education services because of the lack of accessible transportation facilities, universal education, a plan that should allow children everywhere to complete a full course of schooling, is less likely to be improved and widespread. 
Deficient transportation system can also negatively affect social economy. Some people will oppose to it because repair and production of land-used accessible facilities must be a big cost. However, Studies showed that deflect of accessible transportation system has resulted in not only educational issue, but also social economic problem, which can be reflected in the loss of GDP. According to the International Labor Organization (Murray, B.2012), the lack of accessible facilities and constructions for the disabled has led to a reduction in around 7 percent of national GDP, because regions having a high accessibility to raw materials, suppliers and markets are in general economically successful regions and improve their competitive position in the global market. Therefore, it's necessary to invest in the improvement of accessibility in urban environments and services. 
The second problem is that low-quality and inappropriate land-use accessible facilities still exist in some places. On one hand, low quality of accessible facilities is a big problem which can cause inconvenience and even danger for disabled people. According to the description by Prof. Melinda Appold, because early ADA, a federal regulation with respect to landscape accessibility, paid less attention to repair and rebuilding for old houses, big cities that had a great number of new constructions, such as New York and Los Angeles, tended to possess more advanced and convenient accessible facilities. By contrast, some small cities that had only a small area of new constructions, such as West Lafayette, have few appropriate accessible facilities for the disabled. 
One the other hand, she also mentioned that actually, there is a big problem regarding the lack of attentions to producing appropriate accessible facilities based on different local environments. Because America is an extensive country that covers various geographical conditions, for example, areas in the north always struggles with snow problems, and areas in the west may have troubles with dry weather. However, complete requirements for construction of local accessible facilities have not been set up yet, which will cause inconvenience for the disabled. Therefore low-quality and inappropriate accessible facilities have to be improved in order to guarantee the convenience and safety for disabled people. 
In a nutshell, even though the development of accessible facilities is more rapid and comprehensive than other countries, the problems of low quality and unbalanced distribution of land-use accessible facilities in some places are still exist, which can also lead to some social issues related to education and social economy. Therefore, improvements of accessible facilities is needed to deal with these severe problems. Furthermore, like normal persons, disabled people also possess rights to entertain, and to enjoy various aspects of their lives. So from my perspective, the other important goal of improvements in accessible facilities for disabled people is to produce more humanized facilities which can make them generate a sense of pleasure. 
Reference 
Bernstein, R. (2012, July 25). Nearly 1 in 5 people have a disability in the U.S. US Census 
Bureau. Retrieved from 
https://www.census.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/miscellaneous/cb12-134.html 
Zimmermann, R. (2006, November). Universal Design Means Accessibility for One and All. 
Retrieved from 
http://www.facilitiesnet.com/ada/article/Accessibility-for-One-and-All-Facilities- 
Management-ADA-Feature--5573# 
Thierstein, A., & Conventz, S. (2011, September). The knowledge economy, hub airports and 
accessibility. Retrieved from 
http://www-sre.wu.ac.at/ersa/ersaconfs/ersa11/e110830a Final01569.pdf 
