P5D3 Argumentative essay 
April 27, 2015 
Sterilizing Pets 
In contemporary century, more and more people have pets, which makes us have to face a serious problem: overpopulation. Because animals live under human's protection and animals can't control themselves in breeding season, their population becomes larger and larger. There are 70-80 million dogs and 74-96 million cats that people own as pets in the US (The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 2014). Nonetheless, not everyone can afford enough food and accommodation, so some people abandon their pets. Afterwards, more and more stray cats and dogs show up. That consequence is severe for both humans and animals because some stray animals carry virus. People should sterilize their pets not only because overpopulation, but also because other aspects, such as having positive effects between pet owners and their pets and making pets live longer. 
First of all, sterilizing pets can control population of pets, which is the main reason. If people don't sterilize their pets, pets will have more offspring. And then, some people probably abandon their offspring because people can't afford. So a large number of stray animals will show up. Stray animals are always around neighborhood, especially stray cats and dogs. They stay on the street and live in a bad environment, so they can't make themselves so clean and some of them carry virus. Almost everyone likes small animals, people would like to hold them and probably bring them home. Thus, people are likely to be infected. For example, there is a disease called toxoplasmosis, which is caused by a single-celled parasite. If people are healthy and have strong immune systems, they will be fine. However, if they have a weak body, their body can't fight against the disease. The veterinarian in CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) pointed out that if people are pregnant or not strong enough, they can't adopt or handle stray cats and dogs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2013). Sterilizing animals not only solves overpopulation, but also is humane. No one wants a large amount of pets to have homeless lives in the future. Therefore, if we control population, we can save natural resources and spaces for their offspring, making better lives for animals. Thus, to prevent from more stray animals showing up, the best way is to sterilize them. 
Second, having pets neutered makes positive influence on the relationship between people and their pets. Before having neuter surgery, pets always have lots of actions that annoy their owners a lot. For example, male cats in heat often vocalize loudly to attract female cats (Crosby, 2013). This behavior can bother some people and they might respond by treating their pets poorly. Nevertheless, pets won't know why their owners are angry. This can have negative effects on their relationship. Besides, in breeding season, people will worry about the unwanted pregnancy. Animals can't control themselves, just following their nature. So if a female animal is pregnant, it is a trouble for people because people have to decide whether they should take away the babies or let the female animal give birth to the babies. Everything will change if pets are neutered. They won't have this behavior and pet owners won't worry about pregnancy. Thus, the relationship between pets and pet owners will be better if pets are neutered. 
Third, neutered pets will have a longer life than unneutered pets. According to 40,139 death records from veterinarians, the average age of death for unneutered dogs is 7.9. However, for neutered dogs, the average age of death is 9. 4 (University of Georgia, 2013). Most pet owners love their pets so much. They treat their pets as their children. People can't suffer that sadness if their pets die, especially aged people. Small animals live more shortly than humans. So for human, their lives are a small part of humans' life. However, for pets, pet owners are the only family member they have. So we should protect them and try our best to let them live longer. 
Although some people support this perspective, some people still disagree with that because there are some disadvantages of neutering. For example, pets will probably be oversized after having neuter surgery. Neutering surgery makes pets oversized because their bone plates are delayed. The function of bone plates is to stop bones keep growing. If bone plates are delayed, the bones will be larger and longer (Scott, 2014). If people sterilize their pets after pets become adults, which means that they have already stopped growing, the bone plates will not be delayed. They can keep a good shape. Moreover, neutering surgery makes them do not have enough hormones so they will be less active. However, if pet owners spend more time with their pets, pets will still be active. Therefore, I still believe sterilizing pets is a good idea. 
We all want to offer better lives for both pets and pet owners, so sterilizing pets is the best way to achieve that result. Sterilizing pets can control population of pets, make pet owners be closer to their pets, and prolong their life. In human's history, human beings domesticate small animals as pets, so it is our duty to offer high quality lives for them. 
Reference 
1. Crosby. (2013) How Long are Cats Heating for? Retrieved from: http://vetmedicine.about.com/od/pregnancybirthincats/f/Cat_estrus.htm 
2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (January, 2013) Retrieved from: 
http://www.cdc.gov/parasites/toxoplasmosis/gen_info/faqs.html 
3. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (2014) Retrieved from: https://www.aspca.org/about-us/faq/pet-statistics 
4. University of Georgia (April, 2013) Spayed of Neutered Dogs Have a Longer Life. Retrieved from: http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2013/04/130417185904.htm?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=spayed-or-neutered-dogs-live-longer 
5. Scott. (2014). Spay, neuter and joint disease. Dogs Naturally Magazines. Retrieved from: http://www.dogsnaturallymagazine.com/spay-neuter-and-joint-disease/ 
Sterilizing Pets		3 
