P5D1 
April 19, 2015 
Introduction struggling(>-<) 
Firstly, the moat beneficial thing Qin Shi Huang did is conquered the whole territory. The dynasty before the Qin dynasty-the West Zhou dynasty is a weak centralized regime that its 7 states all isolated from the control of the central power. The old government was void and acted like puppy when 7 states war each other year by year. Each state wanted to swallow other's land and become the successor. The war lasted around 400 years. The winner of this game is the Qin state. Strengthened by internal political revolution, the Qin state stand out and became the most powerful state in this period. Led by Qin Shi Huang, "Qin destroyed the other six strong states - Han, Zhao, Wei, Yan, Chu and Qi, unified China, and established the first centralized, unified, multi-ethnic feudal state in Chinese history - the Qin Dynasty." This was by no means a big event in Chinese history. The build of this unified empire marks the beginning of feudalism history in China and left its central-power-thought last about two thousand years. It also ended the disorder of 400 years war period and laid a stable social foundation for China to buffer and develop. "The unification of the Qin State ended the long-term separations and local divisions in China and it made Chinese people live a peaceful and steady life to some extent. " The old country at that time was tired to face any war. It needed a unified country to recover and grow economy. In this way Qin Shi Huang was a great conqueror, because his conquer is necessary and beneficial in this history period. 
Then, Qin Shi Huang continued to make his economically and culturally revolution. "The first Qin Emperor standardized the length, measures and weights, and unified the currency, which promoted the economical communications between different ethnic groups, and conveniently provided opportunities for socio-economic development." This action is so far away from us that we do not feel very strong how influential this policy was. However, to people at that time, this was the most beneficial change that affect their daily life. The territory of China before the Qin Empire was separated. Each state run their own systems and conducted different policy. So every state's currency, measurement of length and weight are almost different. It's very common that you show your money to another state's people they can not recognize is, and the measurement of same stuff is different among states so they can not communicate about it easily. Those caused huge inconvenience for people to trade between states and states and also impede whole empire's economy. A well standard is so important for a country that it decided whether each place of this nation could interact well and control policy could run effectively or not. Qin Shi Huang conducted his standard as early as he builds the empire. That was a vey wise decision to run an empire beneficially. 
"Culturally, Qin Shi Huang unified the characters by making the mini-seal scripts as the official ones, which promoted cultural communications." Before the Qin Empire was build, each state has their "langrage". They had their own characters and pronunciations. That caused a awkward situation that people travel to adjacent states found they can not understand what people here are talking about. To eliminate such wired situation, Qin Shi Huang claimed that only the mini-scripts characters are the official writing form, which he thought is the most beautiful form. Even though the difference of pronunciation between each states still exist, which is a unchangeable fact, the formation of writing hugely facilitated the education and economy, eased the control of whole country. 
