Put a Myth to Rest 
Harsh winter is coming, most of us conceivably were unwilling to leap out of cozy bed bright and early for whatever reason and, more dramatically, few of gentlemen determined to sacrifice their shaving time by stealth, in order to keep staying in bed little longer. They rationalized their acts with a widespread claim: frequent shaving will facilitate the growth of beard, because their beards will ultimately be thicker, darker and denser. This thought is definitely a true gospel for those who buy this idea and expect to nod off at the same time. Moreover, as it is always being demonized as a creed by our friends or popular media, its credibility had spiked. Hence, that shaving would boost hair growth gradually had become a virtual certainty. 
But what if many of prestigious scholars tell you that this generally believed thought is actually a real fly-by-night saying lacking of scientific evidence to support the correctness of itself? 
Chances are, you have already recalled a flurry of relevant evidence to repudiate this defiant question and to concrete the statement that shaving can really boost the growth of body hair. While it is true that to take our beard, which is easy to be observed, as a reference to judge the correlation between shaving and growing pattern of our body hair is a clever choice, it is equally true that we should not deduce a general principle which can be used to analyze all problems regarding our body hair only from a narrow or specific phenomenon without seeking scientific reasoning to stand up for our conjecture. Based on my secondary research with regard to this question, I am obliged to contradict the ones who are in favor of the assertion that shaving could influence hair growth. 
But let's get down to the word "boost" first, and figure out what it refers to. Generally, there are five indexes summarized by scientists, which succeed in reflecting the change of hair growth after shaving, namely the growing speed, the density, the length, the gloss, and the hardness of hair. 
Predicated on my observation, I realized that most of my friends or my classmates tend to enumerate examples related to beard to draw their conclusion that shaving can stimulate hair to grow. So it seems that the first ticklish problem that need to be dealt with is whether or not shaving could influence the growing speed of our hair. 
Professor Bridges, who has offered a lot of assistances for my interview report, discounted the opinion that we can arbitrarily speed our hair growing rhythms up simply by shaving it, declaring a series of his own perspectives in which certain biological principles were involved. According to the professor, our hair, regardless body hair or beard, is mostly constituted by a sort of dead protein named keratin. Now that hair itself is dead, its growing speed will never be changed, just like a bar of lumber cut from a tree. He further mentioned that something that was formed by keratin like our hair and fingernails could be categorized as lifeless human tissues. Those tissues were thought to be under the control of other living organs; hair follicle, for instance, is a kind of tiny organ from which our body hair spring up, and is able to command the growing stage of hair in various ways, including withering and prosperity. Apparently, shaving, as a sort of method to whisk away a plethora of body hair on skin surfaces, cannot modify the internal structure of hair follicles. Consequently, our hair will not deviate from its original growing rate after getting shaved. Realistically, in the 1920s', a first-of-its-kind academic article had concerned an experiment intending to research the relationship between shaving and hair growth. Lynfield (1920) and Macwilliams (1920), the authors of "Shaving and hair growth", had successfully came up with a formula to interpret this question. Based on the formula, W=c A, where c is a constant; A is ratio of immature hair to total hair (which includes mature and immature hair); W represents gross weight of hair. They finally announced that the duration in which our body hair grew quickest happened at the moment when human beings' body hair were at the stage of immaturity. Furthermore, this unique growing rule hinges on biological signals emitted from hair follicles. It is therefore also quite reasonable for us to infer that shaving has nothing to do with hair growth based on this delicate experiment. 
Similarly, there are still some people insisting that the beard will be harder and slicker after being shaved. Frankly, I do agree with this opinion; because I still remember that when I was a kid, once my father kissed me, I felt that my father's mustache turned into a bunch of pretty slicker and stubblier "needles" after shaving. However, is this really caused by shaving? Maron (2014), the author of "Fact or Fiction? If You Shave, Your Hair Will Come Back Thicker." explicitly noted that such feeling has nothing to do with shaving. She used a vivid metaphor to get this phenomenon straight: "A human hair shaft is like javelin that tapers at the end. So when a razor slices away the tip, it may appear that the remaining hair is thicker or darker than it was before the cut." (Maron, 2014). Judging from her words, it is not sophisticated to find that it is the physical property of an object that leads to us feel that beard will be darker and thicker after shaving. Imagine a readily accessible object in our daily life, say, a pair of chopsticks. As we consecutively exert our strengths at the middle of chopsticks to halve them, it will obviously become harder and harder to break them off with the length of chopsticks get shorter and shorter. That is the reason as to why we feel our beard will be very stubbly after shaving, which can produce an illusion that the fabric or texture of hair itself is changed. 
Meanwhile, plenty of individuals claimed that body hair will be darker after shaving. As the matter of fact, it is the other way around. The reason why hair looks slicker after shaving is that it hasn't already been exposed to sunlight for a long period of time, according to an article titled "Human Hair: Color Changes Caused by Daily Care Damages on Ultra-structures" written by Scanavez, Silveria, and Joekes (2002). As time goes by, our hair will gradually lose the gloss. It turns out that the nemesis of our hair quality is ultraviolet-rays, which would induce damages upon our hair. Later, our hair will be yellower compared with the newborn hair. In short, although our new hair looks slicker, it is just a temporary phenomenon, and couldn't last forever. So shaving is unable to modify gloss of hair on principle. 
Another index, the density of our hair, is also determined by the total amount of hair follicles. By the way, if shaving can stimulate hair to grow, why should there be so many hairlessness patients existing in the world? In addition, according to Geyfman (2010) and Andersen (2010), the authors of "Clock genes, hair growth and aging", suggested that there are two special genes called Bmal and CLOCK that will be able to trigger the commencement of aging of our hair follicles. When our hair follicles become aged, one significant process that our hair sheds from our skin sets in. Also, some scientists think that sex hormone is another factor causing hairelessness. They do possess a series of experimental data to buoy their arguments. As Winkler (1993) and Chritiansen(1993) concludes: "The correlations between body hair development and sex hormone levels were highly significantly positive." On the other hand, according to professor Bridges, if our sex hormone level become so steep, for instance, a sort of androgen called testosterone secreted from testicles, can eventually kill our hair follicles. Either way, human genes and sex hormone level may well be "the evil" for the demise of hair follicles, which is the root cause of hairlessness. But it is obvious that shaving can't destroy our hair follicles, as I mentioned beforehand. 
In summary, since the growth rule of hair is only affected by hair follicles, hormone, genes, and negative environmental factors, the whole story describing the aftermath of shaving is just a beautiful illusion. So it is time for putting the myth to rest. 
