Is League of Legends a good game to play? 
League of Legends is now a hot topic all over the world. We can always see people talking about it with joy in their faces. League of Legends is so enjoyable a game that it can easily attract people to play it. However, we may sometimes ignore an important question------is it worth for youth playing League of Legends? According to my study these months, I can surely tell that League of Legends is a game with countless advantages and is definitely worth playing. 
As a typical example of video game, League of Legends has tons of good effects on young people. First of all, people can gain great tacit agreement when plying League of Legends with friends. I am a League player since 2011, and I played a lot with friends when I was in high school. Memory of playing it with friends is really unforgettable. Since League of Legends is a 5 vs 5 team battle game, my friends and I would always play together in a local net bar. To be honest, none of us played well in this game, but we did had great fun! The feeling was like playing basketball together with friends, every one of us should concentrate, and do our own job. For example, if I was a top lane player, I would usually have to farm hard, build tank, take damage in a team fight and try to do as much damage as I can. Other teammates would have different jobs, but what to do is really clear for everyone. I enjoyed a lot helping each other, saving a teammate or revenge for an ally, although it was just a game. I could truly feel that our friendship was strengthened. A game that can give you great fun, and help strengthen friendship at the same time. Now do you think League of Legends is worth playing? 
The benefits of League of Legends are far more than what I just mentioned. Teens who play video games are actually better off than teens who don't play at all, according to a recent study by Przybylski 2016, p. 1 of the University of Oxford in England. Przybylski found that gamers have fewer emotional problems and are less hyperactive than non-gamers. Kids who play video games for up to an hour a day also tend to be more social than those who don't play at all, he says. Video games can also reinforce computer literacy, math and English skills, and knowledge of history, says Kurt Squire, co-director of the Games Learning Society in Wisconsin. More than 2,500 schools worldwide use Minecraft to build math skills and to teach history, biology, architecture, engineering, and other subjects. Playing video games -- even violent ones -- is also a great way for teens to wind down, says C. Ferguson 2016, p.1, a psychologist at Stetson University in Florida who has studied gaming's therapeutic effects. "It seems to be an activity that soothes people and can reduce their stress," Ferguson tells JS. "They have a bad day, they play, and they feel better afterward."p. 1 
To sum up, League of Legends is a game that we can have great fun with, and strengthen friendship from it. Also League of Legends has great benefit on young people. Although it has some shortcomings, we can overcome them if we pay enough efforts. Overall, League of Legends is a game that well worth playing. 
Reference 
Griffiths, M. D. 1993. Are computer games bad for children? The Psychologist: Bulletin of the British Psychological Society, 6, 401407. 
Griffiths, M. D., Davies, M. N. O., Chappell, D. 2003. Breaking the stereotype: The case of online gaming. Cyber Psychology &, Behavior, 61, 81-91. 
Anastasia, L. 2015. Are Video Games Bad for You?. Junior Scholastic, 11711, 20. http://www.laurel.k12.ky.us/userfiles/914/Classes/60578/11-20%20Video%20Games%20Bad%20Article%20with%20Worksheet.pdf 
