Are Dancers' Personal Abilities More Important Than Dancers' Body Shapes? 
	Around the 15th century, a new performance form appeared on stage: dance. When dance started to presented on the stage, the appreciation of dance appeared herewith. In order to satisfy audiences, dancers and choreographers created a series of criteria to estimate dancers. So here is a issue which has been debated for several decades, that is: for a good dancer, is the good body shape more important or is the dancing ability? A good body means that the dancer's body must satisfy these conditions: a beautiful face as small as a palm, long and thin neck, slim body, long arms which are at least 4 cm longer than the body length, long legs which are at least 11 cm longer than the upper body's length, and it is better to have a white skin. Meanwhile, the dancing ability refers to body's flexibility, accuracy of every movement, the breath technique, muscle's control, concept of space, and the comprehension about dance. 
	If a person wants to be a dancer, the first thing he or she should do is getting involved in a dancing association-getting educated. And there are two ways for people to get in, the first one is the informal way, just like entering a dance club or a training school which are facing to public; the second one is the formal way, such as being a student in a dance academy, or being a dancer in a dance company. According to the different phenomena of dance in China and America, I will discuss both of them later. 
	Firstly, I want to talk about the informal way. In China, there are to many clubs and training school, and if people are eager to learn dancing, they need to pay the tuition or membership fee. The truth is, everyone can have a chance to learn dancing as long as they have enough money to pay for it and their body shape can let them move successfully. Apparently, these two requirement is to easy to attain, and also is far from the criteria what "good body shape" means. So, in China, approximately there is no limit with people who want to be a dancer. In America, there are countless dance associations facing to normal people as well. And the level of dancing criteria is also very low. For instance, our Purdue University has "be involved fair" every year, which is an event for many of clubs recruiting students as their new members. They have Indian dance club, street dance club, African dance club. All of them only give one prime criterion- loving dancing. That means even if you do not have the perfect body ratio, you are still welcome to these clubs. Maybe someone will argue that the dancers must be professional dancers rather than ordinary people. But now we are talking about the dancer who need to performant on the stage. So long as the ordinary people have an opportunity to dance on the stage, they are dancers. 
	Second is the formal way. For most of Chinese dance academies, they give tons of criteria of auditioners. As I mentioned in the first paragraph, these rigid requirements can reject millions of dancers at the first step. Because I have experienced the audition process twice in Shanghai Dance Academy, I can tell that the assessment process is a super complicated system. First, appliers should hand in a form with their personal informations and a 2*2 inches identification photo. If the person on the photo is not good-looking, examiners could fail that person. Next, dancers will do a quick assessment of their body data as the first test. The data consists weight, body height, arms length, legs length, feet's shape, jumping height, flexibility. If any of them are not qualified, people cannot get into the next test. And the next test is the reexamine, dancers need to present a 60 seconds performance, then learn a serial of short movements improvisationally. If dancers pass this, they will have a one-week training than enter the final test. In final test, dancers should try to present all the techniques and knowledges they have learned in the short week. However, behind the final, they still have a physical examination. In the examination, if a dancer's bone age is older than the present age they are, they will be rejected. Because that indication means you cannot grow to a higher height than others do. It will influence the beauty when the dancer is dancing. From this process, Chinese professional associations take more care on the body shape rather than the dancing ability. Nevertheless, American dance companies do not have too much criteria as Chinese companies or academies do. For example, Purdue Contemporary Dance Company has a different audition. In the audition, dancers need to perform the best movements they can do. And for body shape, there is no requirements, totally. Beside, it also has some famous dance companies worldwide, like Riverdance (a tap dance company), Spanish national dance company (especially performs Flamenco), New York City Ballet ( a Ballet company). If we pay attention to their appearances, we will see that dancers' body shape are not very uniform. Some of them are still not very slim, someone's legs are still not that long. Though the body shape is different and not so perfect, they still provide us the greatest shows. Only who have good dancing abilities can make that. 
	Besides learning the criteria through the two ways which are about dance education, there are another two ways to learn them. They are the appreciations from choreographers and audiences. 
	Actually, every choreographer has his or her own opinion about who a good dancer is. But as a result of the different situation between Chinese dance industry and American dance industry, there are two primary cliques of the preference of dancers. According to my interviews with one Chinese choreographer and one American choreographer, I find out that there is merely subtle difference between the two of them. But the mainly ideas are highly unanimous. The most important part of a good dancer is the comprehension of moving in a space in the Chinese choreographer's mind while the dancers' critical criterion is the power and idea dancers spread out from their movements in American choreographer's mind. At present, we can safely say that the two opinions of "what a good dancer is" are matched to each other. 
	For most of the audiences in the whole world, I can only get their opinions from the reviews they have written, the reports they have announced and the essays they have posted to discuss about the main issue. From all the materials I have found, the main flow of appreciators prefer to watch dancers' grant jump, flexibility, variety of movements, the power and emotion they convey, etc. In the essay of New York Times, "Scouting New Dancers: What Are the Criteria?", written by Jack Anderson, published on March 6, 1988, it said that being able to move is the most important thing dancers should attain no matter what kind of body shapes they have. It directly points out that dancing ability is the most critical requirement rather than ideal body shapes. In addition, some people also like to dig the plots or the stories stand behind the dance. At that point, if dancers do not have the good dancing abilities, they will not be able to tell others the profound meanings of the dance performance. 
	All in all, we can draw a conclusion that dancing ability is more important than the good body shape to a good dancer. Because firstly, if people want to be a good dancer, they should focus more on personal abilities in informal dance associations; and should pay attention to both of abilities and body shapes in formal dance associations. Secondly, nearly all the choreographers want a dancer with good dancing ability rather than a dancer who only has a ideal body shape. Thirdly, audiences would rather watch a performance which presents good dance movements than watch a performance which presents several beautiful bodies. Therefore, the personal ability rather than the ideal body shape makes a good cancer. 
