P5D1 
April 14, 2015 
Calling Family Cannot Cope With Homesickness 
Homesickness is one of the main topics that psychologists focused on. According to its causes, such as people lack of spiritual support, homesickness researchers list multiple strategies to cope with international students' homesickness. Among these various methods, I argue that international students should reduce the times of calling family in order to effectively deal with the negative feeling- homesickness. 
	The first reason is that communicating with family frequently can stimulate and amplify students' homesickness. Compared with writing, talking is more likely to touch students' mind. When a student hears parents saying they miss him/her, he/she will generate consensus. CNN reporter Derrick Ho (2010) pointed out that "phone calls can backfire." In Ho's article, psychologist Chris Thurber (2010) emphasized that when parents notice children crying or children hear parents crying, homesickness will be exacerbated (Ho, 2010). Furthermore, when students call parents, students not only hear your parents' voice, but also the sounds near parents, which can also have impact students' feeling. For example, I am an international student from China. When I called my family in the Spring Festival, I could clearly hear the loud sounds of firecrackers. Loneliness generated in my mind immediately, and it seemed that my family forgot me. 
	Talking with family lets students not only feel isolated with family, but also feel isolated with new society. Thus, the second reason is that calling family frequently cannot develop international students' ability of enlarging new social network. Main homesickness reasons are international students are unable to adjust novel place and they lack of mental support. Having several friends from different countries is favorable for students to get out of homesickness troubles. However, spending too much time with family is disadvantaged for students to find friends, for students will have less time to take activities outside. Watt and Badger (2010) wrote that the stronger homesick, the more communicate with family (16.4%), and the relationship between homesickness and phone calls home is positive which shows that the act of phone calls can aggravate homesickness (P. 335-350). For instance, at first month of came to America, I spent whole night talking with my mother through Internet. At first, I felt pretty well, for I was accompanied with my mom; however, I gradually found out my classmates were aggregated together and had dinners many times. I deeply thought I was isolated, for I had no friends. It was true that this increase my homesickness. In contrast, in this year, I altered my schedule of talking with parents. At beginning of the action, it was hard to me, but I quickly adjusted university life: I took more club activities where I met like-minded people. 
	Another reason caused international students' homesickness is the culture differences, and the most part of difference is reflected by language. Calling family frequently reduces international students' chances of learning English, for they stay in a native language environment. As we all known, if international students master English, they will have encouragement and confidence in studying and chatting with foreign students. Therefore, their homesickness will be coped with. For example, I have a friend, who calls her family every two weeks. She told me that without communicating with her parents, she had more time to listen to presentation, such as TED, which greatly improved her English speaking. 
	Some people disagree with me and state that students should communicate with family frequently, for it creates homelike atmosphere. I agree that while speaking with family, students feel that parents are standing next to them. However, there are various methods to create a homelike atmosphere; for example, texting with family can also achieve same influence. By texting, parents and children are more conveniently to express feelings because sometimes people are shy to say something. In addition, when using texting, phones save the messages, so when students miss home, they can review the message as soon as possible. 
	In conclusion, I believe that calling family frequently blocks the pathway of dealing with homesickness by disturbing students' minds, and by decreasing the opportunities of making friends and learning English. If students decrease acts of calling family, they will have more friends and be independently. Finally, students will not be interrupted by homesickness and then pay more attention to studying. 
Reference 
Ho, D. (2010, August 16). Homesickness isn't really about 'home'. Retrieved from CNN: http://www.cnn.com/2010/HEALTH/08/16/homesickness.not.about.home/ 
Watt, S. E., & Badger, A. J. (2009). Effects of Social Belonging on Homesickness: An Application of the Belongingness Hypothesis. Personalityand Social Psychology Bulletin, 516-530. 
Calling Family Cannot Cope With Homesickness 
3 
