			A good way for women to find out what they want for their life 
	There is a very common question that asks people about what do they like to do or what are they interested in. Many of them would answer that they like travel. Travel is definitely a fantastic way to touch the world and experience something different from people's daily life. Travel can be divided into few types, and solo travel is one of them. As some surveys found out most people go solo travel are either women or young people. In order to help women better understand who they are and what they want to do, it should be necessary for them to experience travel alone. 
Solo travel is a way for women to deeply understand that they are powerful enough to protect themselves. Because during solo travel days, women have no one to rely on except themselves and it is a good chance to prove their personal ability. Many people believe women are kind of weak and they need protection from other people like men and even the society. Usually when a woman plans to travel alone, her friends and relatives will doubt that she won't finish whole travel by herself. They believe it is very dangerous for a young girl to travel alone. They are right in some ways, because there are some potential risks for female solo travelers. During the Interview with Professor Ksenia Kirillova, she mentioned that travel alone is very scary for women since they only have themselves and the fear is come from sense of helplessness. However, when they overcome the fear, they would start to trust themselves. This is one of the main reasons that women should go for solo travel. Not only they can prove their ability, but also they can gain satisfaction from solo travel. In other words, women are scared during their solo travel, but one reason they go solo travel is to overcome the fear. 
One thing needs to be clear here is that solo traveler means a person who arrived in a destination alone, but it doesn't means they have to travel on their own for the whole trip. (9)Getting to know more people will change person's opinion towards his or her life. However being friends with other people who are from different life cycles shouldn't be an easy thing. Solo travel provides a good chance for women to socialize with people from different backgrounds. Rachel Jones is a masseuse in India, and she traveled alone for many time. Once she met a British girl called Ashley at breakfast in Pushkar, and they met again in Varanassi soon after then. They become friends in a very easy way. "See other strong girls travel alone is like a gift" Rachel said. (Jones, 1) It seems people who are alone will easier to attract others takes the initiative stat the conversation, that's why solo travelers could make more friends than ordinary traveler. During women's daily life, they might ask not talk with some strangers, but this rule is not fit for solo travel. Women should keep an open mind to others and being friends with someone they don't know before would add some interesting material to their solo travel. 
More than making friends, solo travel can also help women find back their life objectives based on what they really want and what they need. In the modern society, people have fast pace of life and some of women just lost their original dream during day and day life. They would like to have a brand new start for their life and the only thing they miss is stimulus. Solo travel could be that stimulus. A research paper about female solo travelers, which was written by Chu-Yin Chiang and Giri Jogaratnam mentioned that 'Escape' is one of main motivations for women who choose travel alone. (Chiang64)During the survey, lots of women mentioned that they want to get out their pressure and responsibility from daily life. Solo travel provides personal space for women to evaluate their job conditions, relationship and other things. 
Some people mentioned safety issue should be a reason to stop women from solo travel, since lots of news reported that women were killed or raped during their solo travel. BBS reported that "student Katherine Horton was raped and killed by two fishermen on the island of Koh Samui, Thailand" (Rodgers 1) The security incident is definitely a problem; however it can be prevented in advance and under travelers' control. Before a solo travel, it is necessary to do the information searching about the safety index of destination online in order to decide whether it is a suitable place for women to travel alone or not. For example, countries like India are definitely not a safe place for women to travel alone since the high rate of rape. Those potential dangerous can also be avoid during travel, because women should be aware to avoid going to some dangerous streets and beach by their own. 
People are saying a woman is a book, and as author to this book, they should better understand themselves. Solo travel provides a good opportunity for them to learn about what kind of person that they want to be and what kind of life they want to own for rest of their life. And safety issue is a problem for female solo travelers and it is also not a problem if they well prepared. An intelligent woman shouldn't always complain about their unsuccessful life. Life needs courage and action to make dream come true. And one time solo travel would be a new starting point for women who want change for their life. Never wait for later days, if you want, just do it. 
Cited 
Wilson, Erica Christine. B, Admin. James Cook. Grad, Dip. Adel. "A 'journey of her own'? The impact of constrains on women's' solo travel". May, 2004. PDF. 1 November 2014 
Ksenia, Kirillova. Personal interview 10 Oct 2014 
Jones, Rachel. "Solo Travel: Making friends and that typical convo." June, 2014. Web. 26 November 2014 
Rodgers Lucy. "Dangers for women travelling solo" November, 2007. Web. 26 November 2014 
