Beyond as a Biology Graduate
	What is the most important factor pursuing a career in biology? Many biology students want to know the important factors that would guide them to work toward a certain career such as research technician or biology professor. In order for students to pursue a career in biology such as biology research technician or biology technician, it is most important for students to have interest and passion about biology careers and want to learn more about the career they choose to pursue.
	One of the reasons why the student's interests toward certain biology career is most important is that student's interest allows student to be more engaged in studying and specializing into a career of interest. For example, a student who has interest in biology and teaching will focus on field of education in biology; student who love to do research and spending time in labs will become a research technician. Dr. Kathleen Eyster from Basic Biomedical Sciences, University of South Dakota, recommended that students should assess their personal interests in terms of choosing a career in biology fields (327). Without an interest, student will not be engaged in learning to get the knowledge for the future career. Hence it is important for student to first find career of interest and with that interest get a hold of courses that help student to get to that specific career. Student with interest in specific field will help him or her to focus more and try hard to achieve student's goal in that specific career field.
Another reason why student's interest is most important factor in choosing a career is that student will have to stick with the chosen career for quite a long time to become an expert in that field. Biology professor Dr. <name> <name> <name> from Purdue University studied his field of biology for long time since as a university student. Dr. <name> said, "I like biology and working with students in the university." It was possible for him because he had great effort and interest toward his field of biology and teaching. Majority of the careers requires a person to invest years of experience in that field in order to become a professional. If the person lacks interest in what he or she is doing, it will be difficult for him or her to stay on focus in learning. Consequently that person will be unable to spend time effectively seeking for knowledge on his or her career field. In addition if the person does not study more into a field then he or she will stay in the same place for years without advancement to higher position in career field. Therefore it is important for students to find biology career that most interest them and be prepared to spend long time in that field to become an expert.
Even though student's interest is one of the factors in pursuing a career in biology, a mere interest of individual is not the most important factor among other significant factors such as skills and education. According to Dr. Eyster it is vital for student to have specific skills such as critical thinking skill and persistence in career (323). Dr. <name> further noted organization, managing time, and getting along with people will help in biology career as well. Normally it takes four to six years to advance from BS to Ph.D.; and education during these years in university will build on and help student to have solid knowledge to be successful in career. However student without a strong interest in specific biology career will not study and practice skills necessary in chosen career field. Student selecting a career of interest allows student to plan out an efficient study plan to pursue a specific career. In reality student invests money and time to study and learn the skills required in specific career. By constructing an efficient study plan such as taking specific courses in the university will both save some money and time for the students. In order to make an effective study plan, student individually needs to do a research about the career in detail and sort out courses and skills required in the field. Therefore by choosing a career of interest students can efficiently plan out their study plans and take effective courses to pursue specific biology careers.
Interest in career motivates students to learn more and eventually specialize into specific biology career. Among factors that help students to pursue a career in biology, the most important factor is that students need to have an interest toward a specific career. Factors such as skill and education are essential as well, but without an interest students' motivation for studying for certain career would drop fast. It's recommended for students to think and research about careers that are interesting to them the most. At that point students then could focus in studying and preparing the path for that career. The interest that students have toward certain biology careers will help student to construct efficient study plan, engage learning about courses related to the career, and spend long time in that career to become an expert.
