P5D1 
04/10/2016 
How to deal with endangered animal problem 
	The endangered species' issues in today's world are growing more serious by the day. Every animal in the earth has a vital role in ecosystem, in connecting with other species and earth resources. If one species is extinct, results in some imbalance, and can have significant effects throughout the rest of the ecosystem. The existence of animals influences human being's life. No animals No human being. I think we must start taking action to lessen our impacts on endangered species. One way to stop species extinction is to protecting their habitats. 
	One main reason is that protecting one's habitat is the most directly way to protect one specie. Deforestation, farming, over-grazing and development all result in irreversible changes-soil compaction, erosion. Such land has vastly alternation or eliminate animals' habitat. In areas where species are living, habitat destruction can quickly force a species to extinction. By protecting habitat, entire communities of animals can be protected together and less conservation intervention is required to ensure species survival. 
	To protect animal, people need to educated. Several issues demonstrate the need for a concerted Humane Education effort: exotic animals as pets, habitat destruction, lack of spending time in nature to understand and appreciate it, the pet overpopulation crisis, and the cycle of animal abuse and domestic violence. It is also important for local people who nearby animal's habitat. Overhunting appears on some species' habitat. Because of the lack of education, the local people don't realize they make something wrong. People in these towns are living by animals and only considering hunting for economics using. The importance of education has been showed. 
	Although there are lots of barrier, from the interview with Dr. Wang, I know that China is making great effort on protecting endangered animal from Africa. They are not only working on saving animal but also supporting on constructing local infrastructure. The efforts which Chinese government done make local children a better place to study and let local people to a higher education level. That's what I have been stated in last paragraph. So China gives us a good example on saving wildlife. All in all, the best way to protecting endangered animals is to protect their habitat and educate people nearby the habitat. 
	Some people and media stated that zoo is the best way to stopping animal to be extinct. Scientific American announced that "Most zoos were not only great places to get up close to wildlife, but many were also doing their part to bolster dwindling populations of animals still living free in the wild." I have to say that zoo is a good choice for saving animals, but zoo is not best. Zoo can create endangered species whole habitat even better than the habitat where they lived before. But the animals will not worry about living and eating instead of eating and living by themselves. The animals in the zoo will lose their nature. The another reason I would to argue is that we don't have enough space to create zoo which can let great amount of species to be in. There are more and more people in nowadays' earth. Constructing a zoo consumes lots of money and spaces which is not affordable in today's situation. 
	In conclusion, although zoo is a good choice for saving wildlife, it can not compete with my opinion which is protecting habitat and enhance the education level of local people who are nearby animal habitat. The reason is that there are not enough room for constructing zoos and zoos drive animals lose their nature. 
