The Safety Problem of Chinese Food: 
Should the Governments Take the Responsibility? 
Should the Governments Take the Responsibility 
of Chinese Food Safety Problem? 
There was a famous old saying in China," People are the basic of a country, food is the basic of the people, and security is the basic of the food." It shows the importance of food safety in human life. But here are some shocking statistics about Chinese food safety. In Chia Daily data base between 1970 -2010, there are nearly seven thousand food safety news in ten thousand news which related Chinese Food. Since I am interested in this topic, I read many articles about this issue and conducted an interview with Jason Wu who is a junior student at Purdue University. The purpose of this paper is to prove that the government should take the responsibility of Chinese food safety problems. Based on what I learned from my research, I would argue that Chinese government should take the responsibility of Chinese food safety problems. 
Tianyi Chen (Nov. 15, 2009) pointed that it is not government's fault, the company add some chemical material which is harmful to consumers. So in this point of view, the company should take the responsibility for the scandals. But Pei etc. (2011) pointed out in his article, the company should not add melamine in the product, and also, the government should take the responsibility to regulate the company and force them not to do this. Government's strict regulation can let the company stop adding harmful materials. As Pei etc. (2011) said, the government have to restraint the company and make the rules, to propose tougher punishments to those companies and make sure that consumers can buy healthy and safe food. 
According to a research conducted by Jinjing Deng (June 19, 2012), consumers are rely on governments. Most of them think the governments are always right. The consumers have the highest value for government certification followed by a national brand. But as Ortega etc. (2011) said in his paper, if there is a third party non-government certification program, consumers will also trust it. That means, the government should take the most responsibility for food safety problem. When the consumers always trust the government certification, the government should make the responsibility for these food scandals because most of the companies have exemption for inspection mark. Because of the reduced Chinese consumers' trust in food industry, the Chinese government should attached more and more attention to food safety. 
The duty of the government is to offer the service to the citizens (Halzack, 2014). When citizens face some safety problem, they should take the responsibility for them (Bai etc. 2007). The government should make people who live in the country safe and comfortable. It is a failing government if it could not offer the security which is the first duty. Hence, it is obviously that the government should take the responsibility when the food safety issue happened. 
Fortunately, the data showed that the status of food safety in China become more positive, but the government still faces a lot of serious challenge. The government should make more efficient regulation which is not only regulate the big companies but also the mini companies and workshops (Personal Interview October 19, 2014). It is necessary for government to do this. And if government can establish a better food safety systems in China, healthy food would develop faster than before, and make the food become world standards (Ortega etc. 2011). 
