A burning issue: Improving Chinese educational system 
With the economical development, educational problem is still a big issue in human's life. Now I am an international student in Purdue university. Compare to western country, Chinese educational system leave much to be desired. In my mind, the Chinese education Bureau should evaluate students through some outdoor activities, handwork and personal ability except score.
First of all, score is an only way used to measure the goodness of students in China. Every Chinese students have been taught good study is the path to success. Due to get into best school, every student put their all effort into study. For example, the college entrance examination is the biggest exam for high school in China. Good score is seen as a must entry into a good university in the stressful race. Under fierce competition, Chinese students believe that practice makes perfect, students spend a lot of free time on extra problems. It will have a very detrimental effect on student's physical and mental health.
Additionally, the education method in China causes stuednts loss the creativity and innovative during the study. Yong lei ming who write an article "The difference between Chinese and western Education system", exampling an exchange teacher educate in China. The exchange teacher assigned an assignment " Happy festival" to her students. All students draw the same Christmas tree that imitate the picture on the wall. After she covered the wall painting, students could not draw anything about " happy festival". Through the examples from Chinese students, the author concerns that Chinese education pay more attention to the student's teaching and neglect the cultivation of creativity ability. Which company need a study machine work for them? In the modern society, people who coexist of knowledgeable and originality ability is the company really want.
Also, the education level is differentiated by regions in China. Compare to city, people cannot receive good education in poor area. Although government encourage people to become a volunteer teacher in rural area, the scarcity of education resources is still big problem to country student. Moreover, College entrance test is differentiated by cities. High school students will receive different exams from all parts of country. Education Bureau cannot ensure the fairness of test from various examination paper. Also different education level students across the country assemble in the same school, college cannot assure all freshman adapt academic pressure in new school. Unified test paper is the greatest choice for every students enter into the fitness school.
Some people views on make the improvement to Chinese educational system are wrong. One professor said that the exam evaluation is the best way in China because there are too much people in China. Compare to American, Chinese students at ten times number. Through the exam evaluation, it will reduce some unnecessary problems. some professor added that the score of exam is more directly reflect the student's learning ability than other way. Sometimes learning ability will greatly determine student's future success. It can be explain why Chinese education do not need to change at present.
Furthermore, people concurs that exam evaluation is a traditional in Chinese history. Trace back to two thousand years ago, Sui dynasty initiate imperial examination system. Today's college entrance examination is the improvement of imperial examination system, From so much instances during two thousand years, college entrance examination is still the optimum choice to select talents among the country. The professor <name> <name> mentions that the Chinese educational system will activate student's interest to study. Face the fierce competition, Chinese students exert all their energies into study. Therefore, the knowledge they learned will become deep memory.
According to ideas in the above paragraphs, it is a long way to make improvement on Chinese educational system. Firstly we should solve the education level differentiated by regions. Then we should cultivate student's creativity and innovative.
