Are Dancers' Performance More Important Than Their Appearance? 
	Around the 15th century, a new performance form appeared on stage: dance. When dance started to present on the stage, the appreciation of dance appeared herewith. In order to satisfy audiences, dancers and choreographers created a series of criteria to evaluate dancers. So, here comes the issue: whether the performance, like flexible body and accurate movement, or the appearance, like beautiful face and slim body, makes a good dancer? From my perspective, I believe dancers' performance is the most important quality. 
	If a person wants to be a dancer, the first thing he or she should do is getting educated, either in an informal way, like entering dance clubs, or a formal way, such as engage in a dance academy or professional a dance company. 
	Firstly, informal dance does not need good appearance. The only requirements for receiving informal education of dancing, in a club or a training school, are tuition and a body that can move successfully. In this case, the appearance is far from importance. For instance, dancing clubs at Purdue University have only listed one criterion in their recruiting processes - loving dancing. Though Purdue Contemporary Dance Company arranged audition for dancers to perform, there is no requirements for appearance either. Maybe someone will argue that the dancers must be professional dancers rather than ordinary people. But now we are talking about the dancers who need to perform on the stage. So long as the ordinary people have an opportunity to dance on the stage, they are dancers. 
	Secondly, performance is still more vital than appearance in formal dance organizations. During these years, an increasing number of dancers find out that despite how significant appearance is in school, if they want to elongate dance career, performance is the first barrier they meet when they try to be hired by dance companies after graduating. According to my experience in Shanghai Dance Academy and some other dance schools, even if most of Chinese dance auditions have two types of appearance test going first, there also is the performance test as the final. Nevertheless, American dance organizations' appearance criteria are much less than Chinese companies' or academies'. In the essay "Scouting New Dancers: What Are the Criteria?", a famous dance company owner, Mr. Cunningham said that "dancers should be strong enough to stand on two legs and also on just one leg. And they should have a sense of balance" Besides, for some famous dance companies worldwide, like Riverdance (a tap dance company), Spanish national dance company (especially performs Flamenco), New York City Ballet ( a Ballet company), they still provide the greatest shows in spite of their nonuniform appearances. 
	Besides learning the criteria through the two education ways, there are another two appreciation ways. One is from choreographers and the other is from audiences. 
