Argumentative Paper 
11/24/2015 
Argumentative Paper 
With the rapid development in technology nowadays, social networking has been playing an essential role in people's daily life. Although it is useful to connect friends around the world, get updated with the most recent news and lots of information, social networking sites users also face many problems. Online privacy and bad influence on academic performance at school are two main concerns. People may think they are able to overcome the problem or believe the problems do not matter; however, with the research I did and the interview I conducted, I believe that social networking sites have more disadvantages than advantages especially for students. 
People may argue that social networking sites bring them lots of benefits. With more personal information been put up online, it is more likely of technology to analyze your preference such as shopping habits or the kind of news you are interested in. In addition, social networking sites enable you to connect friends all over the world. Even though you study abroad and there is distance between you and your old friends, social networking sites provide a perfect way to keep your friends updated with your life in the foreign country. Finally, people may argue that the social networking sites entertain their spare time. For example, people post many funny videos and pictures online to entertain others. Some posts are about political, current event or personal adventures. It is funny and sometimes become a very hot topic to talk with friends during dinner. 
However, in my point of view, social networking sites could cause serious negative impacts. According to a research conducted by Ohio State University, college students' grades are greatly influenced by their use of social networking sites. College students pay much attention to Facebook, Twitter or Instagram at class or while doing their homework. What is more important is that most students have not realized the fact that their grades are affected by social networking sites. My interviewee, <name> also addressed this problem several times during the interview. She said that most active users of Twitter are college students. They have more spare time and more thoughts about getting popular. Many college students wonder how to be popular on social networking sites. They post their fancy cars, expensive shoes or selfies without being aware of how much time they spent on doing those kinds of things. For example, <name> said it usually takes a girl more than 10 minutes to get a good selfie and they need more than one post per day. In addition, some people always like to post bad picture or indecent stories to entertain people. It is not heathy to see these posts every day. People cannot avoid seeing these indecent posts because there will always be someone sharing or posting these things. I do not think it is one of the ways that we get fun from. 
Secondly, we all notice that many advertisements shows up automatically with products you may be interested in on every websites you visit. It is not surprising that these analyses come from your personal information online and the track of your online history. Even though people may feel convenient or even appreciate these updated advertisements, they do not want others to do a decent research on them in order to get the deal information or some suggestions for their recent shopping. However, people have not realized that they actually gave out their personal information and unconsciously sacrificed their personal privacy when they are using social networking sites. Social networking sites track their online history and sell their personal information to advertisement companies. There could be serious consequences when personal information is not kept confidential and social networking sites could actually raise the risk of that. 
	For the rest of this paper, I will discuss more potential drawbacks of social networking sites. For instance, people are more likely to procrastinate when they have access to social networking sites. Also, the excessive use of social networking sites can hurt people's face-to-face communication skills in real life. 
