Negative Affects of Tourism Happens on Traditional Culture 
After read three articles and had an interview about the relationship of traditional culture and tourism, from these experiences I find that traditional culture has really close relationship with the tourism but now relationship between traditional culture and tourism is unbalanced. Boom of tourism brings negative effects on traditional culture. There are some facts , tourism pushed negative aspects of the contemporary culture develop in the traditional places and it also changes the local people's traditional life styles, making them abandon their tradition. 
Tourism takes the contemporary cultures like the popular culture most people understand to the traditional places, even the negative aspect of the contemporary culture were brought to the traditional places by tourists. Just like the exports said tourism may lead to a decline in moral values, use of alcohol and drugs, increasing crime rates and tension in the community (Milman and Pizam 1988). The contemporary culture is an exotic culture for traditional communities, because of the conflict between traditional and exotic culture, people's self-identity and pride in local culture is questioned (Zhou 2003). Exotic culture is a new thing for the traditional places. It can take tons of new messages to a traditional community. Most of local people are attracted by the new culture without choose, in this case they accepted even the negative aspect of the contemporary culture. My interviewee <name> gave me an example for this situation. He visited Hu tongs in Beijing last year, before he went there he think the Ho tongs are places to see how traditional people live in Beijing, but what he saw the Hu tong culture in Beijing it was really different from his imagination. Tourism brought these Hu tongs negative effects, the environment is noisy, the traffic is mess, and these Hu tongs are full of tourists, the doors near the street are the commercial shops. It is hard to see some traditional things in many Hu tongs. Tourism gave many negative effects on that traditional culture. 
Tourism is changing traditional people's life and mind. This situation is a negative affect that tourism brought to the traditional culture. Tourism is not only changing the traditional culture, it also slow replace and destroy it. Traditional communities have their own tradition and life style, as a kind of unique culture their life style should be protected and developed. However, recently, researchers noticed that tourism linked with changes in community life and the socio-culture. (Geertz 1999). People prefer to not keep their traditional culture and choose to accept exotic culture. From the paper (Xing Ding and Zhang 2008) about Mosuo, boom of tourism affects every aspect of the traditional culture of Mosuo,. When asked local people "will you keep the traditional dress and diet in everyday life" only half of residents answer is yes. This result showed that normal life of the Mosuo has been influenced by tourism. Also from another paper(Cheer and Laing 2013) about land diving culture in South America, after a few years developing of the tourism, tourism change local culture people start they don't wear traditional cloth, except they have to show land diving for visitors. Some of local people desire that the exotic contemporary culture can replace their own culture. The tourism's boom causes the dying off of the tradition culture. 
In my opinion, tourism does have negative effects on traditional culture, but some people think tourism has many good effects on traditional culture. They have opinions like tourism creates a fertile context for the reformulation of an area, ushering in new challenges to local forms of meaning, power, and identity (Adams, 1997). It is a truth that tourism can push the local development and give the traditional communities the chance to show their culture. But all the problems that have bad affects on traditional culture were caused by tourism. In another word, if the tourism didn't boom in traditional place it will better for the traditional culture's protection. The tourism did bring traditional places a few benefits but problems it caused are more serious. Tourism cause traffic problems, make the environment become polluted etc. These problems are difficult to solve and it will use many money and people take a long time to solve the problems tourism bring to traditional communities. So negative effects of tourism is more obvious and serious than the benefits it has on the traditional culture 
It is a truth that tourism can bring negative effects to traditional culture. Tourism brings negative parts of the contemporary culture to traditional culture. Tourism also changes the life style of traditional people and destroys traditional culture slowly. Fortunately, This negative satiation can be changed. Firstly, people should plan the development of the tourism at traditional places step by step. Secondly, people should connect good aspects of contemporary culture with traditional culture. If people can do these measures, the relationship of traditional culture and tourism may can be balanced as people expected. 
