ENG 106I 
Dec 13.2015	 
The Controversy of Dok-do Island 
	For children, the most interesting topic to them is themselves. Children think only of themselves in the beginning because they only consider their what is good for them. As they grow up, they start to learn how family is significant for them to be happy. When they start to go to school, they grieve and laugh together with friends who are really precious to them. To sum up, as people grow older, there are many others who they treat just like "themselves" such as their family, friends, and countries; therefore they think of not only "themselves" but also "us". As I mentioned before, "myself" is going to be my family, country, or even the entire world, and this illustration demonstrates that knowing the history of "our" countries is knowing the big picture of "me". 
Every person in the entire world belongs to the international community and this community is working together to maintain peace and order. As a South Korean, the contentious history between South Korea and Japan is also "my" history. One current controversial topic is the island dispute between Korea and Japan. Japan is wrongfully claiming sovereignty over Dok-do Island. It is located between Korea and Japan and is composed of two sloping main islets and several smaller rocks, amounting to just less than two square kilometers (Kim 1). On the US Board Of Geographic Name, the island is listed as Korean territory (Choe 1). According to Pyun Yung-Tai, a minister of foreign affairs of Korea, "Dok-do was the first Korean territory to fall victim to the Japanese aggression". Now, I am going to declare not only the falsity of Japan's territorial claim over Dok-do but also prove that Korea's territorial sovereignty over Dok-do is grounded on objective historical facts to substantiate my thesis that the island Dok-do is Korean territory. 
Koreans have regarded Dokdo as part of Korean territory ever since the Silla period [57 B.C.-935 A.D.I.] In the renowned 12th century historical text, Samguksagi History of the Three Kingdoms, compiled by Kim Bu-sik (11075-1151), the "Royal Annals of Silia" recorded the existence of an ancient maritime kingdom known as Usanguk, consisting of the islands of UUeungdo and Dokdo, that was conquered in A.D. 512 by the Silla general Isabu, and incorporated into Silla that was one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, and one of the world's longest sustained dynasties. (Kim 14) 
The fact that the kingdom of Usanguk which include Dok-do was included in historical text and was considered by its author to be Korean territory shows that the island has been Korean since ancient times. In 1900, the emperor Gojong publicized "The Imperial Degree No.41" to reaffirm the Korean sovereignty over Dok-do (Park 4). However, the Japanese record does not even mention or claim Dok-do before 1905 (Park 4). Abundant Japanese documents, including a Japanese map printed in 1877, clarify that Dok-do was not a part of Japanese territory. At the end of the 17th century, Japan officially acknowledged that Dok-do was not a part of Japanese territory (Park 4). Over the last century, Japan has changed their stance and become too pushy in advocating that Dok-do has always been belonged to their territory. Who could take the same position with Japan or believe Japan's self-contradictory and unreliable assertions? 
To understand better about the historical evidence that Japan cannot claim ownership over the islets, one must understand the island's background. Dok-do Island is located about 90 kilometers east of Korea's Ulleung Island and some 160 kilometers northwest of Japan's Oki Island. Dok-do is the product of underwater volcanic eruptions in the East Sea. Despite the small size of Dok-do Island, the island is extremely unique because of Dokdo's ongoing evolution. Dok-do has ample fishing grounds that contain gas deposits, which are valuable sources of natural gas which can be mined and extracted. 
The relationship between Japan and South Korea has finally reached a point where Dokdo Island became a main source of authority struggle between Japan and South Korea. Shin (2014) states, "It is now a source of pride and patriotism entrenched in Koreans' collective consciousness, stemming from centuries of battles with Japan." Basically, Shin is showing how important it is for Koreans to win this unending dispute so that it makes a statement that Korea is not going to back down to Japan anymore. The island has always had plenty of natural resources, which historically is the reason why Japan and Korea have been fighting for ownership over this island for almost 40 years. However, according to Fifield (2006), "Dokdo has been a recurring flashpoint between South Korea and Japan . But the acrimonious dispute is about more than a few craggy rocks and some squid - it is casting a shadow over economic, foreign and security relations." In other words, Fifield believes over the long period of disputes between South Korea and Japan about the island, Dokdo has become more than just an island for Koreans. It has become a focused point for all of the country's grief with Japan. It symbolizes in the Korean mind all of the wrongs Japan has committed against South Korea. 
Even though there are historic evidences that discount their claim, Japan is adamantly insisting on their assertion. However, there are still some problems with how Koreans react to this dispute. Koreans stress nationalism and anger instead of a precise understanding of the issue and logic according to international norms. Sometimes, because of their emotional reaction and lack of logical background, Koreans play into Japan's strategy of making Korean's appear overly emotional and not able to argue logically. Although it is obvious that the land should be called by its Korean name, it is difficult to get away from the island's Japanese name. According to Fifield (2006) "I think that history is determined by a powerful country. We are not as powerful as Japan, which means territorial disputes will work to our disadvantage." Even though it is true that the version of history gets told by the more powerful country, this does not make it true or fair to the less powerful side, which in this casw would be Korea. Fifield (2006) states, "Japan is attempting to persuade the United States to push Korea to discuss the issue at an international court. Once the U.S. suggests a move to Seoul, the issue immediately becomes an international issue." In other words, Fifield believes that Japan wants to make this issue international, so that Japan can have an advantage in the dispute since Japan is in a superior position to South Korea in the international society. 
Furthermore, Japan's historical claim on this island may sound reasonable to some people, but it should not be accepted for many reasons. Most of their historical claims are distorted. Korea was a Japanese colony from 1910 until 1945, and many people suffered under Japanese rule. However, Japanese textbooks claim that Japan was just trying to help Korea economically and culturally during the colonial times while 8 million Koreans were executed or lost (Kim 1). If Japan really meant to help out South Korea in any way, there should never have been any kind of abuse over South Koreans. Additionally, some of the brutal events are not even mentioned. For example, the execution of Empress Myeongseong is not stated in Japanese textbooks (Kim 1). Japan chose to write a heavily biased history book in preference over presenting a more objective history that does not necessarily show Japan as the good guy. 
	In my opinion, I firmly believe that the entire world should know who is the owner of this "popular" island- Dok-do. To understand the causes and evolution of the Dok-do Island controversy, it is essential to know its history in terms of phases. The study of real history would forbid the international society from repeating the mistakes of the past or convince them to truly apologize to South Korea and give the colonialized island back to South Korea. George Santayana, who was a philosopher, poet and novelist said, "Those who forget their past are condemned to repeat it". Dok-do Island was and always will be part of South Korea. Someday, I wish the international community will recognize our effort to protect peace in Northeast Asia and I believe it will support our side. Now, because Dok-do is in danger, people in the world should care and realize the fact to stop this extortion and if everyone cares about this island, Korea will protect Dok-do. 
Resources 
Choe, Sang-Hun. "US Reinstates S. Korean Sovereignty Over Dokdo." Koreatimes. Web. 31 July 2008. 
Fifield, Anna. "Island Dispute Sets off Nationalist Frenzy in Korea - FT.com." Financial Times. Web. 15 May. 2006. 
Kim, Young-koo. "What Is The Controversy Over Dokdo All About?." Koreana 19. 3 (2005): 
	14-19. Humanities International Complete. Web. 14 Oct. 2015. 
Shin, H. H. "Dokdo's promising resources." International Journal of Korean Studies. Web. 5 Dec. 2009. 
Shin, H. H. "History contradicts Japan's claim." International Journal of Korean Studies. 	Web. 5 Dec. 2009. 
Shin, H.H. "U.S. Congressional Report Adopts Dokdo along with Japanese Name." International Journal of Korean Studies. Web. 5 Dec. 2009. 
Yi, So g-u, Hee Eun. Lee, and Ebrary, Inc. Dokdo Historical Appraisal and International Justice. Leiden [Netherlands] ; Boston: Martinus Nijhoff, 2011. Print. Publications on Ocean Development ; v. 67. 
2 
