A burning issue: Improving Chinese educational system 
With the economic development, educational problem is still a big issue in human's life. Now I am an international student in Purdue University. Compare to this western country, the Chinese educational need some improvements. I suggest that Chinese education Bureau should evaluate students through some outdoor activities, personal abilities and spread of education. 
First of all, student evaluation should not be limited to the score. To the best school, students put their all effort into study. For example, the college entrance examination is the biggest educational competition for high school students in China. Good score is seen as a must to be admitted in a good university through a stressful race. Under fierce competition, Chinese students believe that practice makes perfect, they spend a lot of their free time on remedial course. It will have a very detrimental effect on students' physical and mental health. In the society, the job available is not considered by your school score. Therefore, school need to foster handwork and presentation during the studying. Learning various skills will help you to get better job in the future. 
Additionally, the education method in China causes students lose the creativity and innovative during the study, we need to focus on students' creativity and innovative. Yong lei ming who has written the article "The difference between Chinese and western Education system", provides the example of an exchange teacher educate in China. According to the author the exchange teacher assigned an assignment "Happy festival" to her students. All students drew the same Christmas tree copying a picture on the wall. After she covered the wall painting, students could not draw anything about " happy festival". Through the examples from Chinese students, the author concerns that Chinese education pays more attention to the student's teaching and neglect the cultivation of creativity ability. Which company need a study machine work for them? In the modern society, people who coexist of knowledgeable and originality ability is the company really want. 
Also, we need to build a fairly educational environment for all students in China; In China, the education level is differentiated by regions. Compare to city, people cannot receive good education in poor area. Although government encourages people to become a volunteer teacher in rural area, the scarcity of education resources is still big problem to country student. Moreover, College entrance test is differentiated by cities. High school students will receive different exams from all parts of country. Education Bureau cannot ensure the fairness of test from various examination papers. Also different education level students across the country assemble in the same school, college cannot assure all freshman adept academic pressure in new school. Unified test paper is the greatest choice for every student enters into the fitness school. 
Some people views on make the improvement to Chinese educational system are wrong. One professor said that the exam evaluation is the best way in the country because there are too much people in China. The number of Chinese students to ten times that of pupil in American. Through the exam evaluation, it will reduce some unnecessary problems. Some professor added that the score of exam is more directly reflect the student's learning ability than other way. In my mind, we can make a western model for China. Firstly we can try to make an experiment on one city, and then widely spread into the whole country. 
Furthermore, people concurs that exam evaluation is a traditional in Chinese history. Trace back to two thousand years ago, Sui dynasty initiates imperial examination system. Today's college entrance examination is the improvement of imperial examination system, from so many instances during two thousand years; college entrance examination is still the optimum choice to select talents among the country. However, the old one is not the best one. The progress of the world needs many improvements. The old traditional education system is not fit for the rapid development of China. 
According to ideas in the above paragraphs, we should take action to improve Chinese educational system. Firstly, we should build a fairly education environment for all students for all students. Moreover, we need to concern about student's ability and outdoor activities in students evaluation. Finally we should cultivate student's creativity and innovative during the study. 
