Teenagers should participate in more Sport Activities 
Social life is an important part of campus life, which could make one person's life much more interesting, and sports are useful tools for teenagers to expand their social life. Sports provide teenagers many ways to practice their social skills, and team sports like basketball match are good ways to earn experience and widen the friend circle. Since sports are common interests of an enormous number of people, it could improve the activeness of students. So teenagers should actively participate in sports activities. 
Sports could benefit teenagers in many fields to help to improve their social life, for example, youth could have greater leadership and learn team work through participation of corporative sports so that they would have be sophisticated in communication. Researchers from University of Michigan gathered physical and mental data from 709 six grade kids, and then divided them by leadership level. The study pointed out that the kids who actively do sports showed greater leadership and empathy. This means sports can positively affect teenagers and help them to improve better leadership and empathy. Since many sports are corporative, kids must communicate with others for better score or result in a team work. During this progress, they will learn how to deal with others, and earn more opportunities of being a leader at the same time. 
It is inevitable that teen will meet many different people in their life, and the relation between teen and others is an important part of social life. Sports could contribute to making friends, which will make youth learn how to deal with different kinds of people. Through this progress, their social skills would be improved. When I just started playing basketball, I barely talked with others except my classmates since I was not familiar with them. However, basketball is a teamwork game, and players couldn't just ignore their teammates and played tricks, or they would lose easily. I didn't want to just stand and watch others playing because my team lost quickly. So I tried to communicate with partners, and it was much easier than I thought. I got familiar with my teammates fast since team gave us a sense of belonging and they also didn't want to lose. Furthermore, sports promote youth to develop a healthy sense of competition since sports provide a friendly environment for it. According to University of Florida, students of all ages, who usually take part in sports, are able to deal with competition well in fields beyond sports. First success gave me confidence and it would provide teen more opportunities to communicate with. 
Some graduated students could not get alone with their workmates when they left campus, that's because they lack of experience of corporation with others and the passion of communication or trying new things. And, sports could improve activeness of the teens. Four years ago, I never try 400-meter race and I didn't think I could make a good time since I never practiced for it. But I won a silver medal in the school sports meeting, and it really surprised me. It gave me motivation to try other sports since it led me know that I didn't really know what I can do before I try it. Yu Hong Zha, a member of sports section of PUCSSA, told me that he was invited to take part in a basketball game just because he was tall at first. He didn't play well at that time, but that game made him felt the sense of belonging and motivated him keep playing basketball. Although team sport was fresh to him, he enjoyed the time spent playing it. The first success would make teenagers continue trying and then be used to face a large amount of people, and learn how to keep calm. Just a little success can make youth feel confident, and be glad to try new thing. Have courage to try new things, and it is the way to find the interests and specials. 
On the other hand, someone would say that sports are time consuming activities, and it would minimize the time for study. Teenagers may focus on sports too much and care about study which is one of the main purposes of campus. However, study is not the only reason for teen to be in campus. Campus should be a place which make teen learn and prepare for their future in society, and it should provide youth both knowledge and experience. What's more, sitting in front of a desk is not the only way to study, and sports can also teach teen practical skills which they cannot learn from just reading books, for example, how to make friends with different kinds of people and how to appreciate the diversity of others. Furthermore, studying for a long time would make teen unfocused and reduce their efficiencies, and a relaxing through physical way like playing basketball can make them release the burden of study then empower them with motivation. 
To conclude, not everyone has specials in sports. It doesn't someone can feel happiness and confident when they are very good at particular sports. Most of teen are not professional, but they can still find their place in team sports. It is true that sports matches are not perfect for everyone to develop social skills, but it is helpful for a large amount of youth, since there are many kinds of sports which require different ability, and teenagers can still enjoy the time playing sports when they are not the better than others. Sports can be casual and unrelated about honor of school or the value of self, so teen will not feel pressure from it and can share happiness with others. Also, sports could bring benefits like improved social skills and passion, so teenagers should actively participate in sports. 
Work Cited 
Physical Activity Helps Improve Social Skills 
http://www.uofmhealth.org/news/1513link-between-physical-activity-and-social-skills 
Jackson, Elizabeth A. "Research shows link between physical activity and social skills in children" Health System, University of Michigan. 14 Mar. 2010. Website 
How Do Sports Affect High School Athletes in a Positive Way? 
http://classroom.synonym.com/sports-affect-high-school-athletes-positive-way-4973.html 
Maddox, Theresa. "How Do Sports Affect High School Athletes in a Positive Way?" Synonym. Website. 
Zha, Yu Hong. Personal interview. 18 Oct 2014. 
