Discuss the internet effects on Chinese students 
The internet is known a very common technology as multiple tools to help human beings to communicate, gather newest information and entertain. Therefore, the effects of the internet cannot be ignored, no matter the negative and positive ones. Although many argue that the internet brought us more negative impacts for us in overall, I insist to hold my view of more positive side. It is not deniable that the internet has some negative effects, but if we calculate and evaluate the total benefits against these drawbacks, and we probably end up saying that the internet is a great tool for all of us. 
To begin with my argument, I want to speak something from views of my "opponents". They hold view against me by voicing that the internet is bad and cause a lot of unexpected negative effects, such as Chinese students like to go to internet caf where it is not allowed for people under 18, they use the internet to cheat in class, and the information on the internet distract them to a large degree. Of course, these effects without doubts, do exist in our society and I should not deny the existence of these facts, however, what I want to argue is that these facts they provided only knocked us into the limited sights of the negative side of the internet. Moreover, I do not think many Chinese students frequently went to illegal places such as internet caf instead only few students go there and are reported on the news. Some people took that as a common behavior which in my opinion is a not wise decision. At least, from my knowledge about my surrounding schools and the schools in my province, I would say the phenomena mentioned above rarely being seen on me. Also the internet is only a tool as any other common tools that we commonly used today. Did we say the TV influenced us negatively pretty much? Back to 50 years ago when TV is invented, it distracted us a lot at the first place by providing various funny advertisement, dramas, talk shows and so on. Indeed, there were several people disagree with the TV itself and denied its positive effects. How about now? We all accepted, and didn't we? Hence, the internet is the same thing that some people wouldn't accept at the first place, and is a tool which depends on how you use it. If you use it properly, no one would voice out the negative effects. 
What are the positive effects that convinced me to hold my view so much against the negative ones? So the answers to question are these: the internet improved students' efficiency on study, the internet broaden students' vision in many aspects and the internet brought students a new way of entertaining. With the help of the internet, students can search so many information related to their study like Math, Physics, History, Geography, Art and etc. Once the needed information they gathered, they can take advantage of it and combine it into their work. For instance, if I want to research about the geographical distribution of China, I do not even need to purchase an actual map of my county. The only thing I do is to type "China Map" in google search bar, and the searched results will pop up with many options that I can download for free for me. Also, the different results offer me diverse patterns of these electronic maps which allow me to browse further knowledge of China Map, like the weather of geographic distribution of China, and the terrain distribution of China. 
For doing things for fun on the internet, I believe most of students already have plenty of games installed in their i Phones, i Pods, and i Pads. And I also believe that a lot of students have their personal apps that saved hundreds of music and movies. If one day you ask a question for them: what do you think and how you will feel if people don't have the internet? Finally, I believe that feel desperate they will by saying they are going to die in response to your question. 
The internet plays an important tool in the whole society, and it might not be accepted by some parents who usually hold old opinions at the first place. Well, as time goes by, and as the internet become fully covered on this planet, the positive effects of the internet such as it envisioned us, improved our efficiency of study, and helped to entertained us will finally be wide accepted. So ironically speaking, the negative speaker will probably end up switching to my side by making a long clapping. 
