Apr 15, 2016 
Children raising up by same sex parents are the same with us in every aspects from the intelligence quotient to the sexual orientation and gender role behaviors 
Introduction 
According to Newport Frank's article, "For First Time, Majority of Americans Favor Legal Gay Marriage.", much of the research that was conducted in developed countries in the first decade of the 21st century shows a majority of people in support of same-sex marriage. Support for legal same-sex marriage has increased across every age group, political ideology, religion, gender, race and region of various developed countries in the world. [1]. However, many debates about gay and lesbian couples like have become burning issues as a result of the legalization of same-sex marriage. In 2008, Social Development Minister Ruth Dyson was alleged to have given a speech supporting diverse family structures, including same-sex marriage in New Zealand. One of the most hotly debated topic mentioned in that speech is about the effects of having same-sex parents on children. In the video of this event, we can see that people who support this speech had doubts about same-sex couples capabilities of taking care of a baby and worried about the effects of having two mothers or two fathers on the children. 
The doubts about the differences of children who raised up by LGBT parents inspired me to focus on the topic. Therefore, I would give extra support materials and explain the questions about the sexual orientation and the gender role behaviors more roundly in this article. I chose these two questions because some people have a kind of obstinate concept that 'Like father, like son.'. 
Body 
The result of Diana Baumrind's research shows that "Studies to date show few differences among children of lesbian, gay, and heterosexual couples," only 3% more children living with same-sex parents could be homosexual comparing to the data during other children, which is 7%.[2]. Professor Baumrind claimed that the difference between the research subjects even can be ignored sometimes. In view of the possibility that some people would hide their sexual orientation because of the stress from society and family or the conflict with our traditional concept, this result has its own secificity and could be separated from other researches. [2]. 
A number of studies have examined whether the children of lesbian and gay parents are themselves more likely to identify as lesbian and gay. In a 2001 review of 21 studies, Judith Stacey and Timothy Biblarz found that the children with lesbian or gay parents appear less traditionally gender-typed and are more likely to be open to homoerotic relationships, which may be partly due to genetic or family socialization processes or "contextual effects," even though children raised by same-sex couples are not more likely to self-identify as bisexual, lesbian, or gay and most of them identify as heterosexual.[3] But, comparing to the other children, children have LGBT parents are more likely to grow up in relatively more tolerant school, neighborhood and social contexts, which are less heterosexist. Therefore, they are more bravely to show their sexual orientation than other children. Moreover, because children with heterosexual parents usually cannot get enough supports from their families or people surrounding as easy as children with LGBT parents do because of the public stress or the traditional concepts. We can bravely assume that the percentage of becoming homosexual in children raised up by heterosexual parents actually can be larger than what we collected and thought. Besides, a 2005 review by Charlotte J. Patterson for the American Psychological Association found that the available data did not suggest higher rates of homosexuality among the children of lesbian or gay parents.[4] Herek's 2006 review describes the available data on the point as limited.[5] Stacey and Biblarz and Herek stress that the sexual orientation and gender identification of children is of limited relevance to discussions of parental fitness or policies based on the same. 
In consideration of the reasons before, the difference in the percentage of being homosexual is totally reasonable. Children of LGBT parents do not have any differences in their gender role behaviors in comparison to those observed in heterosexual family structures. In fact, a study by Bos and Sandfort (2009) also revealed that children raised by same-sex couples felt less pressured to follow gender stereotypes.[6] 
Except from the sexual orientation, people also have some suspects about their children's gender role behaviors. Gender Role Behavior is a set of societal norms dictating what types of behaviors are generally considered acceptable, appropriate, or desirable for a person based on their actual or perceive sex. 
From birth, children learn gender stereotypes and roles from their parents and environment: traditional views asserting that males learn to manipulate their physical and social environment through physical strength or dexterity while girls learn to present themselves as objects to be viewed. [7]. Like in 1950's, the traditional concept of a family in China is that husbands are typically working farmers - the providers and wives typically cared for the home and the children. However, the roles are now changing, and even reversing. But in years ago, the man in this situation could be the derision of others and people would call him "Dead Beat". Because the dominant class sees males should have aggression and manhood and this form of gender expression as unacceptable, inappropriate, or perhaps threatening, these individuals are significantly more likely to experience discrimination and harassment both in their personal lives and from their employer.[8] However, with the rise of the New World came the expected roles that each spouse was to carry out specifically. When it comes to children with LGBT parents, like boys with two mothers, they would think that boy might be more female like not decisive and temperamental. And this is where we would talk about Androgyny. Androgyny is the combination of masculine and feminine characteristics. For example, a boy growing up with two mothers, he would clean his room more frequently or prefer being a company worker instead of a shaper in a team. A girl with two fathers might be more aggressive in a relationship or even know how to fix the light. But that is what benefit them actually. According to Sandra Bem, androgynous men and women are more flexible and more mentally healthy than either masculine or feminine individuals; undifferentiated individuals are less competent.[9]. Sometimes people will just focus that they are homosexual instead of the behavior itself. For instance, if there was a aircraft accident, people could be take delight in lambasting the mistakes of the flight attendants and managers. However, they might do not care about the traffic accidences which could be much more seriously than what we thought. (According to the statistic, there are 6 people get wounded or dead in every second.) After all, that is much more normal than the previous one, right? So sometimes, it could just because we give this a precondition, and then we will overstate the significance unconsciously. 
Conclusion 
	Over the whole, we can see that children raising up by gay or lesbian couples are the same with other children. They do not have any difference in multiple aspects, from the intelligence quotient, what I talked about in my previous paper, to the sexual orientation and gender roles. We should not have a rational and impartial view to this point and give more tolerance and understanding of raising a child to gay or lesbian couples. If most of us have this awareness, the children could also have a happier childhood without laughing and having fun from other kids. 
