Who should be in charge of such a big event? 
SAT cheating in China and RSAT test have become the hot topic recently among Chinese students and teachers due to large number of students cheating in the SAT test thus causing the delay or cancel of the score. Many people said it was students' fault and some company's fault that caused the cheating. However, we have to think of the radical source that caused students cheat in the exam. Therefore, I shore up for the side that it was the educational and official problem that caused such significant event and the situation will become better in the future because they are the real radical causes of the event. 
Some people may say the students getting questions of the SAT test before the exam is illegal. In contrast, I want to ask what is the radical reason that they could get questions of the test It is obvious that the testing center is still using the old exam questions that caused such unfair event happened. I have conducted an interview with <name> and he said that many students took the photo of the test questions during the exam because they knew questions would be appeared in the following exams and they also could get money by selling these questions. <name>, personal communication, Mar.26th, 2016 Conversely, if the testing center would not put the old exam questions in the following exams, students would not use this tricky to cheat in the exam. In short, by thinking about the radical reason of an event , we can conclude that the testing center should be in charge of Chinese students' cheating in the exam. 
The testing center also did not use some strategies to deal with many cheatings happened in the past years. Actually before large number of Chinese people cheating in the exam , there are also many other cheatings happened in the world. It could be sending signals, looking at others' papers, replacing students to do exam questions during the exam. Even after happening so many cheatings, the testing center still continue the traditional format in the exam to manage the testing service. If it was me, I would rather use the computer based rather than paper based test to manage the exam so that students would not have the same exam questions in the whole exam like the GRE test. In addition, the SAT testing center could also do other technological modification in the exam to improve the fairness of the exam scores. Overall, the SAT testing center should have to consider using different methods to run the exam. 
Besides the testing center, the education is also a part of a problem that caused the embarrassment in China. Based on the interview conducted with <name> he said that , many students only could follow parents' and teachers' instruction to do anything. . <name> , personal communication, Mar.26th,2016 In addition, according to my own experience, students could not argue anything with teacher so that they could not have any critical thinking. As a result, when many parents told students to memorize answers of the SAT exam, students followed parents to do such action. Moreover, the article "China's big test" tells us that the Gaokao exam which is the university entrance exam has cultivated many testing machines on many students because university admit students solely based on the Gaokao exam. Rauhala & Yongqiang ,2015, para 5-6 Many students thus tend to focus to much on SAT exam to go to better American university. Thus, we can see that the education is another big factor that caused the issue in SAT test. 
However, the situation will become better after the RSAT test come. Firstly, <name> said in the interview that the RSAT test does not require any difficult vocabulary so far. . <name>, personal communication, Mar.26th,2016 Many students do not have to be stressful when taking the exam. Thus, it decreases the possibility that students cheat in the exam. Secondly, new SAT exam requires more about the stuff learned in the high school, which means students do not have to prepare separately for the exam. Allie, 2014, pp1-6, para. 20 When students are taking courses in high school, they also learn a lot about the SAT test. It will make them relaxed in the daily life. Last but not least, new SAT test means there will be no more old exam questions appeared in the new SAT exam. At least, it reduces one way that students cheat in the exam. In short, the new SAT exam will be fairer for many students and could solve many problems in old SAT test. 
To sum up, the education system in China and the testing center should be responsible for the cheating on SAT exam in China. It is better for them to change the way they did previously. The testing center could start using different versions of exam questions in one exam and use the computer based test to manage the exam. Education system could modify the way the university admit students by considering more factors on students' ability. 
Reference 
Rauhala.E. & Yongqiang, G. 2015 China's big test. Time, 18513, 36-42 
Allie .B 2014 , Behind the SAT: The Good and Bad of the 2016 Redesign, retrieved February 26th, 2016, from http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2014/03/10/behind-the-sat-the-good-and-bad-of-the-2016-redesign 
