The disappearance of softball in Brazil can be avoided 
Brazil was the host of the 2014 World Cup and will be the host of the Olympic Games in 2016, and for this reason, most people expect a great interest and commitment with sports from the Brazilian Government. However, this is not what happens. The Brazilian Government only cares about soccer, which leaves the others sports without almost any publicity, causing - in some cases - a tendency to the disappearance of some sports, including softball. 
This possibility of the disappearance of softball might be a result from the Brazilian Government opinion about Softball not being as important as Soccer is. However, they are wrong. Softball, as any other sport, can bring health to the body and mind of the athletes, but also, differently from many other team sports, softball can bring family together. And for this reason, something has to be done to guarantee the longevity of softball in Brazil. 
Softball in Brazil was never really popular in Brazil, and the responsible for that is part from the Brazilian government lack of interest in sports (except soccer) and also a part from the Japanese community. In their Immigration to Brazil, in 1908 (according to Gobrazil.about.com) the Japanese immigrants brought with themselves their culture, thus, they brought softball to Brazil. Besides softball, they also brought their tradition of "isolating" their community from the rest of the country, which resulted in the non-spreading of softball to the rest of the country. For this reason, even nowadays - more than a hundred years later - the majority of softball players are Japanese descendant. 
Although only the Japanese community had access to softball, they manage to gather enough people to be able to play the sport, but nowadays softball is losing so many athletes, that the Japanese community is not as much involved as it was before, which means that the possibility to the disappearance of the sport is becoming more real. 
It is extremely necessary to reinforce the importance of softball and its benefits in order to avoid its disappearance. For example, besides the cardio exercise that almost every sport provides, according to the journal article "The science of softball", softball also provides the visual acuity benefit. The visual acuity is the ability that softball players develop to a better visual hardware, which means that softball players have an ability to "predict" a movement or a play before it occurs. This benefit can also be used outside the field, because it enhances the overall ability of scanning and processing information, which is useful to daily decision-making. 
According to an interview with Camila Mayumi O. Silva, one of the most experienced softball players in Brazil, another benefit of softball is the possibility of building relationships as a kid (personal communication, October 14, 2014). In her interview, she acknowledged that softball helped her with her social skills and also brought so many good moments to her life, regarding her friends and the environment of the sport. In this way, besides the health benefits, softball also allows the good moments and memories that an entertainment can bring. 
Unfortunately, softball still is not available to everyone yet. For being not popular, the sport is very expensive, which most of the times is the reason that athletes are quitting playing it. None of the necessary equipment of softball, such as cleats, bats, mitts and helmets, are produced in Brazil, which makes the people interested in softball obligated to import from United States, most of the times. In this way, it seems that if softball was more popular in Brazil, the equipment will be more available in the country, and therefore, more accessible to everyone, making it more cheap. 
In order to make the equipment available for the softball players, first, something has to be done to increase the number of softball players, and according to Amber Patton, a top American professional softball player who gave an interview for "The New York Times" called "Loving softball is easier than living it" the way to increase the popularity of softball, is to publicize and get exposure to the sport. In her opinion, the advertisement and exposure of softball will increase the popularity and appreciation for he sport. 
In this way, in order to guarantee the visual acuity and the good moments that softball has to provide, first, something has to be urgently done to avoid the disappearance of softball in Brazil. Therefore, if the Brazilian government invest in as much exposure, publicity and advertisement to softball as it does for soccer, the popularity of softball in Brazil will increase significantly, and the disappearance of the sport will be avoided. 
