The Safety Problem of Chinese Food: 
Should the Governments Take the Responsibility? 
Should the Governments Take the Responsibility 
of Chinese Food Safety Problem? 
There was a famous old saying in China," People are the basic of a country, food is the basic of the people, and security is the basic of the food." It shows the importance of food safety in human life. But here are some shocking statistics about Chinese food safety. In Chia Daily data base, there are nearly seven thousand food safety news in ten thousand news which related Chinese Food. Since it is an interesting topic, so I interviewed Jason Wu, who is a junior students at Purdue University, and then did research through academic articles to prove that the government should take the responsibility of Chinese food safety problems. Based on what I learned from my research, I would argue that Chinese government should take the responsibility of Chinese food safety problems. 
Although some people said that it is not government's fault, the company add something which is harmful to consumers. On the one hand, the company could not add something, on the other hand, the government should take the responsibility to regulate the company and force them not to do this. Government's great stress can let the company stop adding harmful materials. Moreover, according to the article The China melamine milk scandal and its implications for food safety regulation written by Pei, X., Tandon, A., Alldrick, A., Giorgi, L., Huang, W., & Yang, R. in 2011, the government have to restraint the company and make the rules, to propose tougher punishments to those companies and make sure that consumers can buy healthy and safe food. 
While at the same time, the consumers are rely on governments. Most of them think the governments are always right. According to the research information, the consumers have the highest value for government certification followed by a national brand. But if there is a third party non-government certification program, consumers will trust it ( Ortega, D. Wang, H. Wu, P. Bai, J. and Olynk, N. (2011) Got (Safe) Milk? Chinese Consumers' Valuation for Select Food Safety Attributes). That means, the government should take the most responsibility for food safety problem. When the consumers always trust the government certification, the government should make the responsibility for these food scandals because most of the companies have exemption for inspection mark. Because of the reduced Chinese consumers' trust in food industry, the Chinese government should attached more and more attention to food safety. Fortunately, the data showed that the status of food safety in China become more positive, but the government still faces a lot of serious challenge. The government should make more efficient regulation which is not only regulate the big companies but also the mini companies and workshops. It is necessary for government to do this. And if government can establish a prefect food safety systems in China, health food would develops fast than before, and make the food become world standards. 
