Offering Tea Art Course for University Students 
When I worked in teahouse most customers, relatively educated middle-class, did not know how to prepare tea properly, and some of them even did not know basic manner when they drank tea. The most common way people drank tea is simply mix green tea with boiled water. Because temperature is too high, destroyed vitamin C results in taste bitter. Obviously, Chinese tea culture is fading away from Chinese life. Hence, it is urgent to preserve our own tea culture, and the most efficient way is offering tea art course as interest course for university students. Through the tea art course, students have a chance to learn Chinese tea culture and Chinese tradition. Besides, when students study tea art course also improve their relationship with each other. More importantly, preserving tea itself as intangible cultural heritage matters for China. 
Some people may complain about that university is place for academic study not for personal interest. In addition, there are schools aimed for tea art study. Hence it is not necessary to offer tea art course for students in university. It is true that there exist tea art schools for people to study, but most of those schools need pay high tuition that most students cannot afford. The high cost for learning tea art contributes the decay of Chinese tea culture. Besides, like art class, tea art class teaches students how to appreciate aesthetic, which also is an important component of university class. If university provide tea art course for students, it will provide an opportunity for students to study tea art in low cost. Through the class, students not only learn about Chinese tradition but also benefit their social relationship. 
Providing tea course for students in university also could improve students' relationship with each other. Dr. Pettit took tea art class in China and expert in Chinese religion, and he mentioned that tea played an important role in our social life. Generally, people would like to share good quality tea with their friends. On the same time when them enjoy tea, the tea also facilitates conversation. Dr. Pettit stated, "The more you enjoy the tea, the more comfort you enjoy the conversation." In Saberi's article also talked about the importance of tea as medium during the business conversation in Guangdong and Hong Kong. Due to the usefulness of tea in personal relationship, tea course held in tea party form will enhance students' communication and improve their friendship. In nowadays, people especially youth cannot live without mobile phone and laptop. They prefer to text to others and talk through mobile phone. When people hang out with their friends they still spend most of their time on those advanced technology. It seems that students are getting away from each other. However, through tea art course they can share their experience about drinking different tea, and simply have fun and relax during the process of preparing tea. 
Protecting tea culture itself is profitable in tea industry. As for the economic interest aspect, ancient tea-horse road is a classic example that tea culture contributes to the economy growth. When tea culture was thrived in China Tang dynasty, remote small town in south where is ideal place to produce tea had constructed ancient tea-horse road as far as reached India Tibet and Nepal. People in those village exchanged tea for horses. With the development with transportation, those small villages experienced rapid economic growth because more material, opportunities and information were obtained. Those south remote villages in old days are rich big city in China like Fujian province and Guangdong province with the advantage of transportation. If the tea culture is thrived again, the whole tea industry will increase, contributing to economy increase. For example, Hollywood makes millions dollar every year because of their popular movie culture attracts a lot of tourists to Universal Studio. 
Protecting tea culture itself is meaningful because culture is soft power bringing spiritual support to people and taking mental pleasure. Tea culture bears the weight of historical tradition and Buddhism. A 2003 article by David Grigg stated that tea is related to Zen Buddhism. Dr. Pettit also state that "We can drink tea at home instead of going to Buddha siting and participating in Buddhist ritual, which also strengthening your awareness sense and creating different sensation of difference perception." Tea culture is related to Buddhism closely `because of the meditation need of monk. During the long time meditation, monks might feel sleepy and tired. Providing with the condition, drinking tea helps them keep awake and stay away from distractions. Hence they can sit quietly and peacefully. Even in daily life, drinking tea provides a chance for us to mediate a short time so that we can receive mental pleasure. 
Considering protect Chinese tradition culture, improve student's relationship, bring economic profit and mental pleasure, offering tea art class for university students is necessary. After class, when students drink at home, they also could teach their family members how to drink and prepare tea properly. In addition, learning tea culture is not only just personal's responsibility but also need government or social organizations like universities to encourage public to learn and preserve tradition culture. Otherwise, precious culture like tea ceremony may disappear in the future. 
Cite: 
1. http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/article/10.1023/B:GEJO.0000007249.91153.c3 (David Chegg, 2003: 283-294) 
2. http://www.purdue.eblib.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/patron/Full Record.aspx?p=692189&echo=1&userid=fm6Yjq L54s U%3d&tstamp=1415629696&id=8FDE24108B23E6E4DA3A9BABCBC326A6872130F8 (Saberi, Helen, 2010, 36-38) 
3. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/doi/10.1111/jgs.12498/abstract (Rongping Ruan, 2013) 
