Friendship Development Between Chinese Exchange Students and American Students 
Since the first Chinese exchange student, Rong Hong, came to America to study in 1847, China has had about 170 years' history of joining in the exchange students program as cited in Yao, 2004, pp.1-2. In this long period of time, the relationship between American students and Chinese exchange students is always one of the most controversial topics that are discussed in the society or researched in studies. Some Chinese exchange students consider language barrier, different cultures and personalities as their obstacles to develop the relationships between themselves and American students. However, there is not a national boundary for friendship. The misunderstandings and stereotypes between American students and Chinese exchange students can be eliminated someday in the future through increasing intercultural communication and mutual understanding to promote their relationship development and even help them become friends. 
Primarily, intercultural communication can help both American students and Chinese students know each other better. In Halualani and her colleagues' study, they found out the situation that more than half of American students only had one to two interactions with Chinese students in each two weeks. Most of their conversations only happened during academic and work environment, and each conversation was less than 30 minutes Halualani, 2008. Lack of intercultural communication can cause of misunderstandings and stereotypes. Based on the research, which was conducted by Ruble and Zhang 2013, called "Stereotypes of Chinese International Students Held by Americans", 5 traits about Chinese exchange students which most of American students agreed on were considered as stereotypes Americans had towards Chinese exchange students. These stereotypes contained both positive and negative impressions, which were Chinese students were friendly, noisy in the public, only getting in touch with other Chinese students, shy and speaking poor English. American students considered these stereotypes as real without really getting associate with Chinese exchange students. Then these stereotypes made American students keep away from Chinese students. When I interviewed one of my friends, Alexis Hernandez, about her experience of associating with Chinese exchange students. Alexis explained that she found out Chinese exchange students were very different from the stereotypes she heard before after she made Chinese friends. She found out that her Chinese friends were nice, talkative and energetic A. Hernandez, personal communication, March 24, 2016. Although not all of the stereotypes are wrong, different people act different. American students can only define after they have intercultural communication with Chinese exchange students and they may get a different answer. 
Even so, lots of Chinese exchange students still struggle about making American friends. On one side, they want to make American friends. On the other side, they cannot handle the pressure from having too much differences between themselves and American students, so they would rather make friends with other Chinese students. Having totally different concepts of friendship from Americans' is one of the differences. According to Li's study 2010, Chinese students think friends need to be willing to sacrifice everything for each other, and friends should trust each other, and friends can be considered as their families. However, American students think that friends are only the short-term relationships; people who have common interests can be friends and they decide to help their friends only when they will not lose their own benefits pp. 36-40 
Mutual understanding is very important towards two groups of people who come from different countries. It is undeniable that there are many differences between Americans and Chinese, so what can people do is to delightedly accept the truth: the existence of differences. For instance, Alexis, she told me that she had never imagined to make any Chinese friends before, but she really made a very good Chinese friends in Purdue, whose name was Yiwen. Alexis shared a story with me about their language difference, "My friend <name>, at the beginning when I met her, she had to use an app on her phone to give me the word in English that she forgot. When she forgot the word, she used the phone to look it up. That works for me too!" A. Hernandez, personal communication, March 24, 2016. There are lots of behaviors like using the phone to check words during a conversation with friends may look strange or incomprehensible, but when people consider these people's culture background, everything is actually understandable. It is not realistic to require people, no matter Chinese exchange students or American students, to behave same under the circumstance of coming from the different countries with different cultures, so both American students and Chinese exchange students should try to understand and tolerate some behaviors that might seem unacceptable. 
Even though it will be a very long process to develop friendship between American students and Chinese exchange students, they should try to work together to have more intercultural communication and mutual understandings. One day, the relationships between American students and Chinese exchange students will be as strong as these students who come from the same countries. 
