Nowadays, an increasing number of people choose to become vegetarians. Most of them claim that vegetable meal is good for humans' body health. However, it is not all true. Vegetable meals are not good for humans' health based on nutrition consideration. In our diet, a variety of trace elements are essential to benefit human body, whether less which elements to the body, means the potential danger! Nutrition is the material basis for human health. How much quality and quantity of the nutrition, directly affect human health, disease resistance and longevity. Without eating animal protein for a long time can cause decreased immunity. Long time vegetarian will make the human body lacks vitamin B12, trace elements calcium, iron, zinc and so on, so as to produce many adverse effects on the human body. 
In recent years, a vegetarian diet habits gradually accepted by the public, especially the chubby women, even regard eating vegetable as habits, hoping to achieve the purpose of weight loss. Admittedly, it is indeed helpful to lose weight with vegetarian meal, such as vegetables, fruits and other foods rich in fiber. However, recently the medical field research confirmed that if women eat as vegetarian meal too often, it can have a devastating effect on the secretion of hormones in the body, even may lead to infertility. Experts point out that, if the woman is not willing to fertility, they must think thrice before acting the vegetarian diet. Especially among women over the age of 30, fertility itself has declined, should take more cautious. 
Vegetarians will affect the child's development. Among many families, because parents are vegetarians, children become vegetarians too. It cannot provide enough nutrients for children to grow, so it is best not to let the children only eat vegetarian meal. Moreover, vegetables lack of vitamin D easily. Vitamin D is very difficult to find in food, especially there are only a few foods containing vitamin D among vegetables. Vegetarians although can easily to retain calcium, but lack of calcium because without eating dairy products. 
