Argumentative essay 
People used to only focus on satisfying hunger problem. However, much more often than in the past, people's condition of life quality has already improved obviously because of the development of society. People are more likely take care of the healthy diet. For this topic, different people hold the different concept of it in their mind. Some vegetarians think healthy diet is only consist of vegetables and fruits while others not. In my point of view, balanced diet which consists of diverse food should be better for people. And I would give three specific evidences to support my opinion. 
First, the balanced diet can help people control their weight. Eating the balanced diet can keep people in a proper weight, which means people would reduce the possibility of obesity or undernutrition. It is hard for people only have fruits and vegetables in long term, they are easily to feel hungry and want to eat everything to satisfy their physical demand. They cannot stop eating while they have a big meal. This remind me of an example around me in high school. <name> is a girl who has a little babyfat, and she only ate one apple per day, however, if she started to eat something else, she cannot stop eating, because she has already stay in hunger for one week. This would be harmful to her stomach, and she did not lose weight as she expected before. 
Second, in term of disease, a well-balanced diet would helpful to reduce the risk of disease and infections. People get different nutrients from the diverse food, it is true that vegetables and fruits are good for people's health, but it doesn't mean other food doesn't have nutrients. Such like meat, cheese and other kinds of food, they also have the nutritional elements which lack in the vegetables and fruits. In this way, when the body receives enough and overall nutritional elements, it means the immune system is well, which can avoid the infections, and decrease the risk of disease, like cancer, high blood pressure, heart diseases, etc. 
Finally, speaking of the development of physical health, a balanced diet can promote one's body growth. Since get enough necessary nutritional elements not only can prevent the disease, but also can help body to grow and stay the function. Especially aim to young people and children. For instance, fish and eggs have abundant protein. According to the resource, protein is extraordinarily essential for body growth and tissue repair as well as healing of injuries. If one lack the protein, he or she is more likely to get heart problems, arthritis, muscle soreness, hair loss, low quality of sleep, etc. Based on my cousin's experience, she lose weight in high school by skipping meal, and only eat vegetables and fruits, however, her possibility to get illness much more often than before. Faced to the hard schoolwork, her health condition became bad. Luckily, she changed her meal plan on time, and she said that she felt much more energetic than before. 
P5D1 
4/12/15 
