The Impact of Video Games on College Students 
P5D3 
May 1, 2015 
The debates between video games' positive and negative impacts on college students are pretty popular today. Video games have multiple negative impacts on college students' GPA and health, however, the positive impacts of video game on college students are also important and worth to study on.(Granic, 2013) To see the whole picture and know the most suitable role of video games in college students' life, people should notice the irreplaceable benefits from playing video games, such as the improvement on visual attention, teamwork ability and the practice of communication skill. 
	Most research that focuses on the negative impacts of video games on college students all have two things in common, that is they consider all video game players as video game addicts (Christopher, 2015). Secondly basically all of those studies ignored the relationship between the level of negative impacts and the average time spent on video games (Redick, 2015). Dr. Redick (2015) pointed out that the impacts of video games is actually differing from age to age, for college students and adult players, who relatively have better cognitive ability, the impacts is mainly determined by how long you spend on video games. If they only play a few hours per week, it's very likely that they get many benefits on visual perception and other cognitive aspects such as motivational habits with barely any negative impacts. Based on this, simply saying video games bring college students a lot of negative impacts is unscientific, because what gives the negative impacts is not video games but the way you play them. 
	Most parents think that the reason their children spend too little time on studying is mainly because they spend too much time on video games. (Szendrey, 2013) This seems reasonable, however it is not true. According to Szendrey (2013), for college students, a higher usage of video games usually comes with a higher average time spent on study. Szendrey (2013) stated that there are a lot of factors can affect a student to spend less time on study, but we can't just simply think this is because they play too much video game. In another words, even if they stop playing video games, they are still very unlikely to spend that time on studying. 
	Despite those direct impacts of video games on students, the other important reason that the impacts of video games are worth studying is that video games can also impact the method of education. Squire (2003) points out that the development of video games can make the way of learning much easier. The pilot flight simulator is a very good example, this kind of video games allow student pilots get familiar with aircraft and learn to fly a plane without the concern of any safety risks. His research suggested that "As games become more culturally entrenched, the idea of using games in education may be passing from an opportunity to an imperative" (Squire, 2013). So, the impact of video games could also change the way of education and make a better education system in the future. 
Although there still might be some negative impacts, but no matter on students themselves or as a tool and a new method of education, video games can benefit college students. But consider all the benefits college students can get from video games and their wide possibility on application to education system, video games are still worth to be study and research. I believe as long as people keep studying video games, we can always lower the negative effects and find more benefits. 
To conclude based on the previous research, video games might seem is just a media for entertainment and relaxation to many people, but with the development of technology, the role of video games to college students is becoming more multiple. Although we know there are some negative impacts, the positive impact of video games on college students are also important and worth to study. 
Reference Page 
Szendrey. J & Weaver. J & Kim. P & Metzer. R (2013) The Impact Of Video Games On Student GPA, Study Habits, And Time Management Skills: WHAT'S THE BIG DEAL? http://iacis.org/iis/2013/184_iis_2013_122-128.pdf 
Squire. K (2003) Video Games In Education. International Journal of Intelligent Simulations and Gaming http://website.education.wisc.edu/~kdsquire/tenure-files/39-squire-IJIS.pdf 
Redick. T(2015) Personal Interview on The Impact of Video Games on College Students April 7, 2015 
Christopher. D (2015) The Negative Effects of Video Game Addiction 
http://www.livestrong.com/article/278074-negative-effects-of-video-game-addiction/ 
Squire. K (2003) Video Games In Education. International Journal of Intelligent Simulations and Gaming http://website.education.wisc.edu/~kdsquire/tenure-files/39-squire-IJIS.pdf 
Squire, K (2007). Video games literacy: A literacy of expertise. Handbook Of Research On New Media Literacies. New York: Mac Millan. http://website.education.wisc.edu/~kdsquire/tenure-files/04-video-game%20literacy.pdf 
3 
The Impact of Video Games on College Students 
