Can self-motivation influence us? 
What is self-motivation? From the psychologists' perspective, it is an ability to do what needs to be done without influence from other people or situations. Also, it could be a key life skill which all the leaders think highly of. However, when it comes to our daily life, we may feel confused whether self-motivation can control our mental and physical behaviors or not. In other words, can self-motivation influence us? In my opinion, I hold the view that self-motivation influences us in most of time. 
Self-motivation is a key life skill that not only do students acquire but also every occupation needs. Because it can be helpful when you are trapped in setback. In an interview with my psychology professor Joshua Vanarsdall who has profound knowledge in the area of cognitive psychology, he noted that self-motivation is that one do something out of his/her willingness, a source of inner energy. He further illustrated his ideas by giving an example in an educational setting. Once a student thinks he/she will do poorly in exams, the student would be influenced by these thoughts and unwilling to study for the exam. As a result, he/she won't do well in exams. However, a student who do not want to fail the exam would work harder and would finally change the result. The professor also add that keeping motivated means you can manage your time better since people who are self-motivated are confident and this quality will encourage you to achieve his or her goals without wasting time doing nothing at all. 
Self- motivation is also an asset and can actually be counterproductive to success. There is a survey conducted by Amy Wrzesniewski and Barry Schwartz which is to know how much is the motive influence the result of one cadet. They analyzed data drawn from 11,320 cadets at West Point. The results came that those who really desire to attend the West Point (internal issues) are more likely to graduate and become commissioned officers. That is to say, self-motivation plays an vital rule comparing with other factors. And there is no denying the fact that it was self-motivation that lead the cadets' admitted by society. Here is another article posted on Iowa University page by a learner noted that when self-motivation originates from an internal source and is combined with a realistic goal and circumstance, the odds of a good outcome are greatly increased. They provided us with a chart which was focused on 'self-motivated students are easier to get good grades and gain more good qualities.' Learners noted that self-motivation also help students to identify their values , belief , and desires. From my experience, I benefit a lot by motivating myself when I am at a lose, especially when I did not get my expected grades in my exam. Every time I am in low spirits I told myself I am ambitious and I can make it. I also found that keeping the company of enthusiastic people can help me stay motivated because as we know it is a lot easier to be motivated if the people around you are positive. 
However, here are some people who hold opposite opinion, since here is another issue rather than self-motivation that help them to obtain energy. One psychology professor once told when somebody encouraged you, gave you good feedback, told you to try again, and keep going. Then you can be motivated. During his class he taught his students to stay with people who are enthusiastic. Life will be easier when people keep the company of enthusiastic people and try to avoid negative people and seek out positive and well motivated people. These knowledge are according to the external factors, However, Amy Wrzesniewski, an associate professor of organizational behavior at the Yale School of Management, Barry Schwartz, a professor of psychology at Swarthmore College, suggest that motivation can be classified into internal motives and instrumental motives. These two motives work together. However, the internal motive is the foundation of achieving goals. According to the finding, It is clear that even though the motive from external works, it is still based on inner factors which is essential for generating impetus. 
There is no denying the fact that self-motivation can influence our decision making, bring us positive feedback. It can help us identify our values, beliefs, and desires. People who are self-motivated tend to be more organized, with good time management skills and have more self-esteem and confidence. Even though some people against the opinion that people can get energy from the external issues, we can still tell that the internal motive is the foundation of achieving goals, it may accompany the external factors. 
All in all, self-motivation plays a vital role in our daily life, a key point to achieve one's goal. 
