Date: 2015/4/30 
P5D3 
Alcohol Struggle 
For many years, people live under the limit of the alcoholic policy. Different countries have their own unique alcohol policies. But it seems that all of these policies set the limit on age. Like in America, children under 18 are prohibited drinking wine. Moreover, selling alcohol to minors is also illegal. As for my own experience, every student in Purdue are required to complete a test named Alcohol Edu. Actually, it is more likely a online education course that help us promote an overall healthy and safe campus environment at Purdue. However, in today's society many students choose to try alcohol at very young age. Drinking underage seems quite common among young people. So for me, I think that it is not necessary to limit the age of drinking. 
People oppose to drinking underage is due to many reasons. As far as I am concerned, the main reason is about health. Most of the people claim that drinking alcohol could be harmful to children's health. What is more? The earlier people start to drink, the more likely for them to get bad diseases. And I have to admit that it is true. Drinking alcohol may really damage one's health, especially for the teens. Alcohol is created when grains, fruits, or vegetables are fermented. So if alcohol is a natural product, why do teens need to be concerned about drinking it? When people drink alcohol, it's absorbed into their bloodstream. From there, it affects the central nervous system( the brain and spinal cold), which controls virtually all body functions. Because experts now know that the human brain is still developing during our teens, scientists are researching the effects drinking alcohol can have n the teen brain. What's more? Alcohol is a depressant, thick means it shows the function of the central nervous system. Alcohol actually blocks some of the messages trying to get to the brain. This alters a person's perceptions, emotions, movements, vision, and hearing. When large amounts of alcohol are consumed in a short period of time, alcohol poisoning can result. Alcohol poisoning is exactly what it sounds like - the body has become poisoned by large amounts of alcohol. Violent vomiting is usually the first symptom of alcohol poisoning. Extreme sleepiness, unconsciousness, difficulty breathing, dangerously low blood sugar, seizures, and even death may result. 
Not only for the health problem, the reason why teens can not drink alcohol could also due to social pressures. Like the law or alcoholic policy. It is illegal to buy alcohol in the United States until the age of 21. Teens who drink put themselves at risk for obvious problems with the law. Teens who drink are also more likely to get into fights and commit crimes than those who don't. People who drink regularly also often have problems with school. Drinking can damage a student's ability to study well and get decent grades, as well as affect sports performance. Although drinking alcohol may be harmful to young people's health, all of these are based on over drinking. As I said, if you can drink in moderation, then it is almost impossible for you to be addicted to alcohol. Drinking alcohol in a appropriate way will not damage your health. It may be also good for your body. 
Drinking alcohol will also have positive influence. According to the interview of my sociology professor, I gain lots of the information of that. When I asked him that do you think that teenagers drink alcohol underage will become a problem. He said that as long as he was not too young, he feel like maybe in China, especially north of China, drinking alcohol is regarded as a way of integrating into society, to be like a man. Like to be a real man, you need to drink a lot of alcohol and to show that kind of families, even with your friends. So he didn't see that as a big problem. Instead, if chosen not to drink alcohol with his family or with his peers, he think that will cause a problem, because he will see himself not being part of them. According to his view, drinking alcohol can be regarded as kind of social manners. In this case, drinking wine is absolutely acceptable. 
Actually, whether drinking alcohol underage is a good problem. Everyone can have different opinions about it. 
