Topic: Argumentative Essay 
Date: 11/24/2015. 
Argumentative Essay 
Taxicab, a very familiar transportation tool which almost everyone needs it to transit from location A to location B. However, as the invention of internet cloud service and smartphones, the taxicab industrial is also changing. Uber, an international transportation network company, gives people another method to call a taxi on their smartphones, and it's getting more and more popular world-wide. Nevertheless, those traditional taxicab companies start to feel being threatened, because their status in taxicab industrial is gradually replaced by Uber and other ride-sharing companies. Not surprisingly, several governments categorized Uber and any other ride-sharing companies as out-lawed, and a lot of traditional taxicab drivers have protested and claimed Uber as an "illegal" taxi company. Now, as a frequent user of Uber, I have to state that Uber is a modern model of taxicab companies, which every other taxicab company should learn from it, and this "peer-to-peer" business model is what we need in this recession of economy. 
Admittedly, there are plenty of people who think Uber is unreliable, and traditional taxicabs could be more helpful than Uber. Moreover, people who oppose Uber, always stated three problems of Uber, which are, first Uber is out-lawed, because according to the law, no taxicab drivers can pre-arrange any pick-up location with costumers. Second, since Uber doesn't interview any of its drivers, so it can endanger costumers' safety during the ride. Third, financially Uber is losing its money to deal with a lot of fines and lawsuit, therefore how can people trust a company that could face bankruptcy in any time. Undoubtedly, these three concerns are real, but I believe Uber still has a lot more advantages than traditional taxicabs. So I will address these three problems in the following paragraphs. 
First of all, unquestionably, safety is usually concerned by all of us. So it is reasonable for people to doubt the safety of products or services, and I understand that. However, when some people say Uber could endanger costumers during the ride, because Uber does not interview any of its drivers. I have to disagree with this saying, because this is not true. According to Uber's web page, "Ridesharing and livery drivers in the U.S. are screened through a process that includes country, federal, and multi-state criminal background checks. Uber also reviews drivers' motor vehicle records throughout their time driving with Uber". More than that, before people get in to the Uber taxi, people can see the photo of the drivers and service rating. If some people do not like their drivers, they can change other drivers until the satisfaction being accomplished. Thus, do we have any more reasons to say Uber is unsafe? The answer is absolutely no. The first reason is that Uber already have those drivers' personal information, although Uber does not interview any of its drivers. Second, costumers have the freedom to choose their drivers, which means Uber enabled costumers to have the ability to differentiate an excellent driver or bad driver. All in all, people shall not mainly worry about their personal safety, when they are using Uber, because there is background-check that was conducted by Uber on every driver, and people also have the ability to avoid danger by service rating or drivers' driving records. 
Support Paragraph 2: opposition: Uber is out-lawed. Rebuttal: evidences support technology is changing faster than law, and some government is making relevant policy to accept the existence of Uber. 
Support Paragraph 3: opposition: people can't trust a company that will face bankruptcy in any time. Rebuttal: Uber is expanding its business, so it's reasonable to lose money. And some of famous company was also facing the same issues with Uber. 
Support Paragraph 4: Generally talk about the bright future influence of Uber, and how people like Uber. 
Conclusion. 
