April 15, 2016 
Does the natural environment cause food differences between northern and southern China? 
	Food cultures are complex in different regions for each country. China, world's second-largest country by land area has a long history of diet cultures. The Yangtze River divides China into two main parts: North and South. Different locations, climates, and human history not only create the cultural difference between the North and South but also generate unique diet styles. And then a question arises in my mind: Does natural environment cause food differences between northern and southern China? At first, the geological difference gives rise to the diversity of the staple food. Subsequently, the wet climate in southern China encourages people to have spicier food. Finally, higher distribution of sugarcane cause the southern cuisine is sweeter than the northern one. 
	Secondly, chili pepper is a common plant in the natural environment. Also, it is a notable characteristic that southern food different than the northern one. Sichuan, a province in the south China, people in there love to put chili almost in every dish. Why do they love chili so much? It mostly relies on a humid sub-tropical monsoonal environment: mild winter, long frost-free period, hot summer, plentiful rainfall and mist in the southern China. The eastern basin area and lower western valleys mainly contributed in the southern part. The high precipitation and particular geographical figure make the water assemble in a "natural bowl". That's why climate in Sichuan is milder than plain as similar as the atmosphere in most of the southern part in China. And chili gives local people a good balance for them to adapt better this kind of natural environment. Then the question is coming: what is chili? Chili is extracted from a fruit of plants named chili pepper and broadly applied in the fields of food and medicine. And chili pepper is a small shrub with the woody stem and up to one-meter high. It is always picked up while green and then becomes red when it achieves completed maturity. When people eat chili, their heat sensation will be stimulated by capsaicin, which is odorless, colorless and oily chemical we usually find in chili pepper. Although there is no physical burning, capsaicin makes people feel an excessive amount of heat because the certain sensory neuron in human bodies bonds with the area that touched by chili. That will cause people sweating and releases excessive water in the body. The diseases such as arthritis and rheumatism that people in wet regions usually fall ill will be eased due to a daily diet of eating some food with chilipara.14. Nevertheless, the magazine "Natural China" claimed the opposite opinion: everyone has the different body conditions that depend on family hesitance, personal life and so on. And natural environment is just a small part. Therefore, people mostly will not prefer spicy food just depending on the natural environment Jan. 5, 2010. That was true. However, "Natural China" ignored the fact: there were only about 2 million people in northern China catch the illness that was caused by high humidity in bodies, but over 30 million people in the south contract this kind of illness. Obviously, in a wet environment, the biological requirement of people will encourage them to have more spicy food to eliminate excessive water in bodies. And that is the reason why the natural environment leads to the food difference. 
	Thirdly, sugarcane, as a part of the natural environment, is the prevalent resource of sugar in the south of China. And it is also an important factor that brings about the food difference. The sugarcane planting is most popular in three states of southern China: Guangxi, Yunnan, and Guangdong. These three places are always wet and higher temperature Luo, para.2. The winter from January to March is short but cold. The range of temperature is in the range of 37 to 46 Fahrenheit degree. On the other hand, the weather from April through September is the rainy season which temperature reaches the highest value. The range of temperature is in the range of 76 to 88 Fahrenheit degree. During the rainy season, rain continues for whole day long Chinahights.com. Compare with the growing environment of sugarcane, the southern China is one of the best places for sugarcane growing. claims that sugarcane is a tropical plant that grows in low sea level. It has a better adoption to grow in a wet environment whatever winter and summer. The temperature between 70-95 degrees Fahrenheit is best for growing sugarcane. That's the reason that sugarcane is popular in the south of China but scarce in the north. Ndoro, 2015. Nonetheless, Zhao, a sociology professor at Zhejiang University demonstrated a different opinion: B.C. 1352 year before Christ, China has the historical record of early business Nature China, 2011. As a common plant in the south, sugarcane was probably transported to from the south to the north in the past. So the people live in the northern region have sugar too. If sugar is popular in the south because sugarcane is ubiquitous in the south, sugar should also be popular in northern China. In contrast, the fact is opposite: sugar and sweet flavor are not that popular in the north. However, when business people send sugar to the north, cost of time, labor, and transportation made the price of sugar become very high. Even though sugar had been a good in early business, it was expensive so that most people in northern China could not purchase it for daily use just like they bought other condiments such as vinegar and salt. For this reason, sugar was not popular in northern China, but it formed sugar culture in the southern part. 
	In conclusion, the natural environment has a significant role in the formation of food difference in China. At first, the fact that the South people prefer to eat rice rather than the North people results in the greater production of rice depends on the geological difference in the natural environment. Secondly, wet climate is also a reason that why southern people used to like spicy food rather than the northern regions. Lastly, the southern cuisine is sweeter because of the higher distribution of sugarcane as well. Furthermore, as Mr. <name> told me in the interview: "today, many people concerned about car, house, job, but not considered about food: the most fundamental thing for surviving. We spent over 2 hours per day on eating food to support daily activity. So why don't we pay more attention on the discover of food?" 
Reference 
China.org. n.d.. Rivers and Lakes. Retrieved April 15, 2016, from, 
http://www.china.org.cn/english/features/38090.htm 
Chinahighlights.com n.d.. Sichuan weather. Retrieved April 15, 2016, from, http://www.chinahighlights.com/sichuan/weather.htm 
		 http://www.chinamodernh.com/the-road-to-new-technology/3%23#ref 
Hiskey D. 2010, August 18. Why peppers taste hot? Retrieved April 15, 2016, from 
http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2010/08/why-peppers-taste-hot/ 
H. Zhao. 2011, Jan The origin of sugar in China. Retrieved from April 15, 2016, from 
	 http://www.naturechina.com/theoriginofsugarinchina/342tx.htm 
Irri.org. n. d. Farmland Devoted to Rice Paddy. Nanjing, China. 
Luo, J. 2015, May 5. Rational regional distribution of sugarcane cultivars in China. Retrieved April 15, 2016, from 
http://www.nature.com/articles/srep15721#ref26 
Ma, X. & Wu, S. 2013, January 12 Rice re-cultivation in southern China. Retrieved April 15, 2016, from, 
http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs11442-013-0994-x 
Naumann,S. 2016, February 25. Weather condition in Northern China. Retrieved April 15, 2016, from, http://gochina.about.com/od/weather/qt/Nothern-China-Weather.htm 
Ndoro,F.M. 2013, n.d.. A review of stochastic weather generated for sugarcane supply chain simulation purposes. Retrieved April 15, 2016, from, http://efwe.ukzn.ac.za/Libraries/Research Seminars/Ndoro_F.sflb.ashx 
Nature China .n.d.. How to have a healthy body. Retrieved from April 15, 2016, from 
	 http://www.naturechina.com/howtohaveahealthybody/104.231-x.htm 
Sagevfood. n.d.. Rice production in the world and the U.S. Retrieved April 15, 2016, from, 
http://www.sagevfoods.com/Main Pages/Rice101/Production2.htm 
