Interview Report: The Impact of Video Games on College Students 
P5D1 
	With the rapid development of science and technology, personal computers are not only used on working, many people also consider them as a tool for gaming, and we can easily find a lot of this kind of people among college students today, many video game fans even put a game console in their dorm. Video games have multiple impacts on college students, a lot of voices says video games have too much negative impacts that affect players' GPA and health a lot. However, according to my previous research and interview, I think the positive impacts of video game on college students are more important and worth to study on. People should notice the irreplaceable benefits on visual attention and many cognitive and social aspects from playing video games. 
	Almost every study report that focus on the negative impacts of video games on college students all have two thing in common, that is they consider all the video game player as video game addict, secondly basically all of those study ignored the relationship between the level of negative impacts and the average time spent on video games. During the interview from last week, Dr. <name> (2015) pointed out that how video games impacts players is actually differing from age to age, for college students and adult players, who relatively have better cognitive ability, the impacts is mainly determined by how long you spend on video games. If they only plays a few hours per week, it's very likely that they get many benefits on visual perception and other cognitive aspects with barely any negative impacts. Based on this, I think simply say video games bring college students a lot of negative impacts is unscientific, because what gives the negative impacts is not video games but the way you play them. 
	Most parents think that the reason their children spend too little time on study is mainly because they spend too much time on video games. This seems reasonable, however it is not true. According to the research by Szendrey (2013), the fact is not the same as we thought, the research found that for college students, a higher usage of video games usually comes with a higher average time spent on study. Szendrey (2013) stated that there's a lot of factors can affect a student to spend less time on study, but we can't just simply think this is because they play too much video game, in another word, even they stop playing video games, they are still very unlikely to put those time on study. 
No matter on students themselves or as a tool and a new method of education, video games can give a lot of benefits to college students, but it's negative impacts also cannot be ignored, video games can easily make their player become addictive and also make college students hardly focus on their school work. But consider all the benefits and the scientific way to play them, not to mention the wide possible of video game application in the future education, I think video games are still worth to be study and research. I believe as long as people keep studying on video games, we can always make the negative effects lower and find more benefits from them. 
To conclude based on the previous research, video games might seem is just a media for entertainment and relaxation to many people, but with the development of technology, the role of video games to college students and education system is becoming more important and multiple. Although we know there are some negative impacts of it, the study on how to magnify the positive part and reduce the negative part is still worth effort. Everything has two sides, we must be aware of both of them in order to use it in the best way. 
Reference Page 
Szendrey. J & Weaver. J & Kim. P & Metzer. R (2013) The Impact Of Video Games On Student GPA, Study Habits, And Time Management Skills: WHAT'S THE BIG DEAL? http://iacis.org/iis/2013/184_iis_2013_122-128.pdf 
Squire. K (2003) Video Games In Education. International Journal of Intelligent Simulations and Gaming http://website.education.wisc.edu/~kdsquire/tenure-files/39-squire-IJIS.pdf 
3 
The Impact of Video Games on College Students 
