4/12/2015	 
P5D3 
Hip Hop is Beneficial to Youth 
Hip hop is a subculture with sets of concepts, values, symbols, and shared meanings to specific members of that group. It originated from New York City with decades of history. Hip hop culture has four elements which are DJ, Graffiti, MC, and Breaking. Being one of the constituents in hip hop culture, street dancing is getting popular among American's younger generation. Nowadays, more and more street dancers open their own studios and start teaching beginners how to dance. However, some parents still criticize that hip hop is bad for children or teenagers. In my opinion, hip hop is beneficial to youth generation. I suggest that the critics should investigate more about hip hop culture. 
The first reason about the good side of hip hop is that it can improve the health. According to the article, " Understanding Hip Hop Dance For Fitness"1, contributed by the website "Fit Day", "hip hop dance is a fun and effective way to burn calories and get your heart pumping". It is a high-impact cardio workout engages in the whole body and helps build up the muscle. Hip hop dance increases the endurance and strengthens the abdominals. It requires learners to move at an extremely fast pace which can help improve both the endurance and aerobic capacity. Hip hop dance requires learners to use and expand their muscles in an intense but smooth way. The movement will gradually help dancers to strengthen the entire core muscles. Hip hop dance can be a good way to exercise while still having fun. It can lead dancers to a healthy life. 
My second reason is that hip hop provides an environment for people who are inside the culture to enjoy. According to the article "The Influence of Hip Hop Music on Society"2, "hip hop is generally considered as a culture with extensive areas involving in and combining together to create the specific symbols in this environment". Including fashion, music, art, dance, and language, it contains lots of entertainments and activities. For teenagers are interested in the America's history, hip hop can definitely fulfill the desire. The history of hip hop can be traced back to the person named DJ Kool Herc, also known as the father of hip hop. According to my interview with Professor <name>, who is the manager of Purdue University in Black Cultural Center, hip hop started in early seventies and was founded by DJ Kool Herc in Jamaica. After several years of development, the historical meaning and the cultural value are certainly huge. Nowadays, hip hop culture has spread to the world. Several historians discuss together how hip hop culture influences teenagers' behaviors. Hip hop dancers hold international competitions to share the joy and happiness of this culture. Teenagers can choose their own preference and obtain more knowledge about the culture. For youth, it is advantageous because some people only be involved in bad activities when they have too much free time. However, hip hop offers the condition to make people focus on practicing which reduces the likelihood of teenagers doing something harmful to health. 
My third reason is that hip hop offers equality in its cultural camp. During the creation of hip hop culture, the originators define the four pillars of hip hop which are "love", "peace", "unity", and "having fun". These four pillars bring the other four constituents which I previously mentioned (DJ, MC host, Breaking, and Graffiti). While dancers are battling with each other, they don't care the race, the religion, and they don't judge competitors by the appearance. After the commercialization in 1979, hip hop was spread to the world, from America to China, Japan, and even Europe. People who love hip hop culture in any country can enjoy the sound of hip hop songs, dancing to the rhythm and having fun with their friends. 
However, some parents put stereotypes on hip hop. They think it has a lot of relationships with drugs, smokes, gangs, etc. I agree that there are some inner dangers in this culture, and I understand that parents would worry about their children. However, people can always choose to accept or deny doing these unhealthy affairs. It is not a requirement for people insdie the culture. 
In conclusion, hip hop is an alternative form of exercise which can help people to improve the health. It provides the environment for learners to pay attention to practice, and also decreases the chance to do harmful things. Hip hop provides a free zone with no racism, political ideology, or any other form of stratification. In contrast, it brings people together. I suggest that parents can investigate more in the hip hop culture to understand the four pillars and its historical background, realizing that hip hop is not as dangerous as they think. 
1 http://www.fitday.com/fitness-articles/fitness/exercises/understanding-hip-hop-dance-for-fitness.html 
2 http://www.ehow.com/about_6635022_influence-hip-hop-music-society.html 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
