Students can't deeply learn from an online course 
Online courses have attracted much attention over the past several years. Universities are setting some online courses to replace the fixed traditional courses for students. Students get a flexible time schedule from online courses. They can learn an online course at anytime and anywhere. However, online courses also have some disadvantages that students can't quite ignore. High dropout rates disclose that online courses are not suitable for all students. Through several articles and interview, I find that students can't learn deeply knowledge from an online course. They may just remember or simply understand knowledge rather that use knowledge to solve other problems. 
One of the most useful and direct ways for students to learn new knowledge is talking with their professors and peers. However, online courses are not able to provide students enough chances to talk with their professors and classmates. That means students can't obtain enough face-to-face communication with their professor and peers about their academic question. Robert Moore stated that students think they are alone to learn the online material without the benefits of the shared experienced from their classmates, which makes a bad influence for students to learn new knowledge. For students, communication with others is a good way to solve their problems and develop their mind. Robin Cunningham said that students in an online course can send e-mail to their professors if they have any question. However, some difficult information are not able to be described through several words. For example, some mathematics online courses only can be solved with sketch. Hence, students may have some blind spots without a clear sketch. Besides, laboratory experiments that are based on calculations also can't be performed simply through a video, as Sarah Carr said. The weak laboratory experiments make students establish a unstable structure of their academic knowledge, which also make them just know knowledge rather than use knowledge. 
Online courses also don't provide enough multifarious materials compared with traditional courses. That means students need lots of skills to learn new knowledge by themselves. Robert Moore disclosed that students often say that they always use same methods such as listen to the lecture, talk with peers and finish assignments, in both traditional courses and online courses. However, for students, those methods from traditional courses are not possible to be used in an online course. A video can't satisfy students all learning requirements. Not all students can learn what they want for a video. Students need to seek other ways such as go to library, surf the Internet and ask their friend to learn knowledge. To be specific, online courses need students have some individual learning skills. If students want to get good scores in online course, they should not just watch videos and finish assignments. In short, online courses provide students videos that are facing to all students. Hence, students need to solve their own problems by themselves. For those students who have flexible skills, online video just is a study direction. They develop their mind and deeply think the real meaning about a chapter through their skills. However, nowadays, not all students have several learning skills. Most students often use same skills to face different situations, which make students have a simple understand of a course. They need help from their peers and professors with their experiences rather than find result by themselves. 
Professor is one of the most important parts to determine whether a class is successful or not. For an online course, professors are particularly important because they decide the structure of a class and balance the interaction between students and themselves. Robin Cunningham, who is an associate director of distance learning in Purdue, said that a good professor makes his students adapt online course easily and learn more easily. However, not all teachers in online courses are remarkable. Newcomers make students feel uncomfortable with their online courses and even get something wrong. Sarah Carr disclosed that professors who are newcomers in online courses have not enough ability to control the balance of the interaction between students and themselves. They do not clearly know the interaction is also important in an online course as same as a traditional courses. The less interactions with students make professor hardly control students' learning progress. In traditional courses, professors can hold all students' progress about a new knowledge. Then, they can decide when is suitable for students to learn next chapter. However, virtual courses can't establish enough chance for professors to talk with their students. Newcomers need be trained to know which knowledge should be shown and which are not necessary. New professor in an online course make their can't get right information from an video and students also are not have a ability to rapidly reply their ideas to let their teacher know. Hence, student will not catch up with their online courses and learn completely. 
As a double-edged sword, online courses also bring some disadvantages to students. Both pros and cons can influence students' learning progress. Although, online course continues to grow, it still exits some cons that can make a bad influence for students. Hence, students should not take online course just because they are attracted by the advantages of online courses. Figuring out whether the cons of online courses also provide a huge influence to themselves also is a important thing. 
Work cited 
Carr, Sarah. "As distance education comes of age, the challenge is keeping the students." Chronicle of higher education 46. 23 (2000). 
Cunningham, Robin. Personal Interview. 9 October 2014. 
Dori, Meinert, "Massive open online courses have high drop-out rates, study finds." HRMagzine 59. 2 (Feb. 2014): 19 
Moore, Robert L. "Importance of Developing Community in Distance Education Courses." Tech Trends 58. 2 (2014): 20-24. 
