P5 Draft#1 
April 12, 2016 
Online Classes May Not Be Helpful for Certain Group of Students 
Online distance learning is more and more popular in the education domain. Online classes have a lot of advantages, such as the unlimited teaching scale and site. Some people think online classes fit every student. On the contrary, I assume that online classes may not be helpful for certain group of students. There are many reasons to support my perspective, but I will only explore three of them to illustrate my standpoint. 
One of the most obvious reasons for my inclination lies on the fact that students without self-control ability would drop out of the lessons. <name> , my history professor who I interviewed, mentioned that although online classes are more convenient than traditional classes. At the same time, online classes also more challenging. Online distance learning is a kind of self-study tool for students. So students are required for both self-control and self-study abilities. But not all of the students have these two abilities. It will lead to some students drop out of the lessons and other students. Also, there is an article can support my opinion. Students in the distance learning class who possessed a more independent and conceptual learning style had the highest average scores in all of the student achievement areas. People with the lowest scores in the distance learning course had a more social and conceptual learning style. Students with both a social and applied learning style performed much better in the on-campus class. (Diaz & Cartnal, 1999, para.11). Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that not every student fit online distance learning. 
An equally significant reason for my propensity is that online classes lack of face-to-face communication between teachers and students. The direct communication is important during study. According to a statistic research conducted by T.H.E Journal, I can see my opinion is right. After a computer class, the researchers did a survey to both online classes and traditional classes' students. 80% of online students said they need more opportunity to ask questions. The difference in responses is most probably attributable to online students' greater need to ask questions, as well their ability to ask questions anonymously. Their primary mode of communication is e-mail. (Cooper, 2001, para.9). Also, I had experienced a Calculus online class. Although I did the same hard work as students in traditional class, I could not figure everything out through e-mail and internet. It was really inconvenient because I always had to wait for the instructor's answer. Sometimes they replied really late and sometimes I could not understand what they replied me. After the bad experience of online class, I realized how important is face-to-face communication to a student. 
Last, online classes can not make sure if the atmosphere are fitting to study. If I have an online class, I would just be staying in my dorm and find a comfortable place to learn the lessons. The environment and atmosphere may not helpful for a student to learn. Also it will reduce the studying efficiency. Jessica Blanchard, the second person that I interviewed, who is a course scheduling supervisor. She said students' brain can be stimulated when they were in the classroom with the blackboard, tables, chairs and classmates. The stimulation will increase students' attention to focus on what teachers had said. But when I stay in my dorm, I would not feel that stimulation. Therefore, the efficiency of online classes would be lower than the traditional classes. 
Although online classes can work for students who lived far away from school and saved their time on the transportation. I do believe that online classes have some advantages to students. We should make sure students' studying achievement because traditional classes can make up a lot of disadvantages which made by online classes. The evidence shows that the overall efficiency in traditional classes are higher than online classes. As a result, we should not give up the traditional way which we used to study. 
However, when all the facts are examined, it is not difficult to draw the conclusion that online classes do not fit every student. It has been well illustrated by the above examples. In general, students without self-control ability would drop out of the lessons. Also, online classes lack of face-to-face communication between teachers and students. Last but not least, online classes can not make sure if the atmosphere are fitting to study. 
