Argumentative Essay 1st Draft 
November 1st 2015 
Consideration of GPA in College Applications 
	Many factors are considered when international student athletes are applying to U.S. colleges. These include high school GPA, standardized tests, and athletic ability. Having both academic and athletic requirements is important, but I do not believe that the GPA of international student athletes should be a factor when applying to a college. This is for two reasons. For one, GPA is not a direct reflection of intelligence. Secondly, different high school have different ratings, which means that a 3. 0 at one school is held to a different standard than a 3. 0 at other school. 
	As mentioned, GPA is not a good indicator of good intelligence. GPA depends on lot of things besides intelligence such as work ethic, teachers, and various situations that may be different for each person. For example, someone who turns assignments in on time would have a higher GPA than someone who turns them in late and receives deductions or a zero. Also someone maybe has exams from previous year, which helps them do well in the class, even though they do not really understand the material. Specifically, for student athletes, they maybe dedicating most of their time to their sport, which may prevent them from getting all of the work done. This does not mean that they are not intelligent, which is why GPA not be considered in the application process. Another reason why does not directly represent intelligence is because it is based on the entire four years of high school. At the beginning of the high school, students are 14 to 15 years old and may be too immature to put education as a priority. If they get really low GPA in their first year or two, they will have difficulty raising it. Even if they start doing better at school, their overall GPA will still be low because of their mistakes at the beginning. All of these are reasons why GPA does not reflect intelligence. In addition, a study done by Angela Duckworth and Martin Seligman in the Psychological Science journal found that correlation between intelligence quotient (IQ) and GPA was only 32 percent. 
	The second reason GPA should not be considered is because different high schools have different ratings. Each school has a different level of student performance and varying difficulty of classes. For example, in the Czech Republic there are different levels of high schools. There are ones primarily for students who are going to a college, therefore the classes are more challenging and it is harder to get a good GPA. There are also other high schools that are targeted for students going to work after graduation, these are often less funded. Classes are less difficult and it is easier to get a high GPA. For example, if there is someone, who was not sure about going to college might not have chosen the high school made for "pre-college" students and would have gone to a normal public school instead. However, the student later decided to apply to U.S. colleges because his or her GPA would be compared to those who attended the more difficult high schools. Different types and levels of high schools make it difficult to generalize and compare the GPA of students. There is also a big difference between high schools in the United States and high schools all around the world. In addition, J. Arthur Boyle from the University of Denver sais that "it definitely does not acknowledge outside factors such as the massive role of teachers (not just in instruction, but in determining how GPA will be tallied) or differences in culture between schools and classes". 
	In contrast to GPA, the standardized exams are the same for everyone. Therefore, the SAT and the TOEFL exams can be used to measure intelligence and can be directly compared. According to David Hambrick from Michigan State University, the SAT is a good "measure of general intelligence" and "works for its intended purpose - predicting success in college". It is a fair way to measure intelligence for all high school students. 
	In conclusion, GPA should not be a consideration in the admissions process. GPA is not a direct reflection of intelligence and can mean very different things for different schools. I think that U.S. colleges should eliminated GPA as a factor when deciding who to accept. I do not think that a low GPA should prevent a student athlete from getting into a college in the U.S. There are many other factors to consider. 
Hambrick, D. (2011). The SAT Is a Good Intelligence Test. The New York Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2011/12/04/why-should-sats-matter/the-sat-is-a-good-intelligence-test 
Boyle, J. (2014). American Education: The Cult of GPA. Linkedin. Retrieved from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/20140815231456-73983063-american-education-the-cult-of-g-p-a 
Duckworth, A., Seligman M. (2005). Self-Discipline Outdoes IQ in Predicting Academic Performance of Adolescents. Association of Psychological Science. Retrieved from http://www.sas.upenn.edu/~duckwort/images/publications/Duckworth Seligman_2005_Self-Discipline Predicts Academic Achievement.pdf 
