Tourism's Bad Affects on Traditional Culture 
After reading three articles and had an interview about the relationship of traditional culture and tourism, I learned a lot about my topic and knew many new ideas from them. From these materials I find most of them agree that developing of tourism now is bring bad influence to traditional culture. This idea is a good way to describe the unbalance relationship of traditional culture and tourism now. Tourism just like fire, if local community can use it in a right way it will push the hole area's development, but if not tourism will destroy the traditional culture of the place. Tourism bring bad parts of the temporary culture to the traditional culture, and change it, additionally, tourism change the life and mind of the whole traditional community and destroying it slowly. 
Exotic culture takes too many totally new messages to a traditional community, in that case local people can only accept all of the new culture without choose, even the bad aspect of the temporary culture. Tourism bring the temporary culture to the places have traditional culture, because of the conflict between traditional and exotic culture, people's self-identity and pride in local culture is questioned (Zhou 2003). So tourism may lead to a decline in moral values, use of alcohol and drugs, increasing crime rates and tension in the community (Milman and Pizam 1988). My interviewee <name> gave me an example for this situation, he visited Hu tongs in Beijing , before he came he thinks these buildings will be in a special and unique style as the aspect of the commoner's traditional culture in Beijing . When he saw the Hu tong culture in Beijing it was really different from his imagination. Tourism give these Hu tongs new activities, but also changed them it into a totally different thing, the bad accepts of mode the narrow road were full of the cars and the motorbikes, and people no longer live in these traditional Hu tongs, most of them become the a stores which full of modern culture. The traditional culture was changed by the temporary commercial culture in this place. 
Tourism not only changing the traditional culture, it also slow replace and destroy it. Traditional communities have their own tradition and life style, as a kind of unique culture their life style should be protected and developed, but the developing of the tourism changes traditional people's life and mind. In recent years, researchers noticed that tourism was also linked with changes in community life and the socio-culture. (Geertz 1999). People start abound their traditional culture and choose the exotic culture. From the paper of Xiong, Ding, Deng and Zhang's research on Mosuo, the boom of tourism effect every aspect of the traditional culture of Mosuo, when asked 'will you 
keep the traditional dress and diet in everyday life', only half of residents answer yes, showing that normal life of the Mosuo has been influenced by tourism. Also from another paper wrote by Cheer, Reeves and Laing about land diving culture in South America, after a few years developing of the tourism, tourism change local culture people start they don't wear traditional cloth, except they have to show land diving for visitors. Some of local people desire that the exotic temporary culture can replace their own culture. The tourism's boom causes the dying off of the tradition culture. 
Tourism is not a thing that can only give bad affect on a traditional communities, tourism can also have some good effects on traditional culture. Tourism creates a fertile context for the reformulation of a area, ushering in new challenges to local forms of meaning, power, and identity (Adams, 1997). Tourism can push the local develop and give the traditional communities the chance to show their culture. As <name> said if people use tourism, as a tool to development tourism will give good affect on local place, but if people use tourism as tool to destroy the traditional culture, the bad effects of tourism will show. 
It is a truth that tourism can bring bad effects to traditional culture, it brings bad parts of the temporary culture to traditional culture, then change the local culture, tourism also change the life style of traditional people and destroy traditional culture slowly. However, people can change this bad situation. As paper wrote by Cheer, Reeves and Laing about land diving culture in South America and the <name> idea, if people can plan the developing of the tourism in a traditional place step by step with a clean plan, the tourism will take more good effect on traditional culture. They all had an idea that the way to develop a traditional culture is not replacing it should be connecting, connect good aspect of temporary culture with traditional culture. If people can do that, the relationship of traditional culture and tourism will be balanced as people expected. 
