The necessary of combination of two steps to achieve biggest success in Running Online Shops 
	Online shopping, which is also known as e-shopping, has been widely used in daily life. Thanks to the rapidly developing computer science and technologies, people are able to purchase items through the Internet now. Comparing to visiting physical store, shopping online contains the benefits of saving both of time and money which help to gain its popularity among citizens in recent years. According to Peng, Wang and Cai (2008), a great number of people in Mainland China have been engaged in e-shopping. The data chart shows a tendency that the percentage of Chinese Internet users shopping online has increased from 7% in 2004 to 22% in 2008. As the huge demand of purchasing items through the Internet, more and more people are interested in running online shoppes. In order to earn the maximum revenue, some of them raise the statement that two steps are essential, including testing out the potential consumers and their attitude of e-shopping first, then displaying products in a intuitive way and providing buyers with comfortable shopping experience which could be defined as excellent service. In my mind, I wonder why the combination of two steps play a significant role in running a successful online shoppes and is it necessary to follow every step? In the rest of paper, I am going to argue about the necessary of combination of these two steps to achieve the biggest successes in operating e-shoppes. 
	Looking back to the interview that I conducted with one of my friend <name> , who has been running an online shop over seven years. Based on her own experience, in previous three years, she regarded the delivery, classifies as second step, as a very important reason for keeping more buyers since once her bad experience of delivery used to made her feeling so disappointed that she almost gave up purchasing online again. What's more, in later years while she started a new business of overseas purchasing in American, young people and parents were aimed as main consumer groups, which classifies as first step, since they are not only rich but also eager to use foreign goods. During both of two separate period, <name> made a great bunch of money. Thus, her experience led to the result that these two steps do have an important meaning in running a profitable online shop, but are not required to bound them together to receive the biggest profits. 
	However, more profits will be earned if these two steps are combined. On one hand, determining the possible consumer groups is essential in making a achievement in e-shopping as a very first step. Based on the result of Jin, Osman, Romle and Yusuf (2015), Malaysia students show gentle attitude in online shopping, which indicates an adapting process for students in Malaysia to get familiar with e-shopping. Thus, there is a hidden but huge demand in student market, such as stationeries, nice packing presents and high-tech products. It is obvious that the profits equal to quantity times price, and when the price is a constant, the only way to maximum profits is to increase the quantity. On the other hand, an attractive service, working as the second step, is able to appeal more consumers and keep them to shop again. To be more specifically, displaying products in an intuitive way, providing buyers with comfortable shopping experience included ease to use, perceived risk and reputation are needed to add the quantity to increase the profits as well. For instance, from the newspaper report "Close-Up" (2013), a visually display of products benefits to attract people to purchase goods. According to Peng, Wang, Cai (2008), people's shopping desires will be positively affected by characters of ease to use, low level of perceived risk and high reputation. It is true that no one is willing to operate something that is really complicated. Similar reason for people buying insurance, they really hate to take risks, and the less risk there will be, the more consumers will be appealed. Therefore, the second step is also significant in receiving a considerable profits. 
	When it comes to achieving the biggest success in running online shoppes, these two steps should be tightly combined. Just imaging that a shop without determining potential consumers, and it has a relatively easy operating purchasing process, lower risks and higher reputation of both products and shop itself. Orders will not be that much since some groups, especially the old citizens who are not familiar with online shopping are not able to place abundant orders, and all the good service and characters of this shop seems like a waste. In contrast, potential consumers like office ladies have huge purchasing power due to the willingness of spending money on themselves. What about the shop that has strong potential consumer groups but bad service? For instance, a young office lady is planning to buy a new handbag online. She is too impatient to looking for a matchable one if hundreds of bags with different colors, brands and types are shown in one page. Therefore, the combination of two steps is extremely important to make the biggest profits in running online shops, and missing any one of them will reduce the revenues. 
	In conclusion, either steps of testing out the potential consumers and its attitude of e-shopping or displaying products in a intuitive way and offering buyers with easy shopping experience helps to make a short term profits. For a long term benefits, bounded these two steps and follow them will result in making a biggest profits. In this case, I suggest e-tailors to divided potential consumers into several parts in the light of purchasing power. Unconditionally, meeting the needs of the people with powerful purchasing power is important. Furthermore, editing the home page of websites in a clear and visual way to increase the orders which result in increasing benefits. 
