To reduce accidents by consumption of excessive alcohol in college, they need to take alcohol free program with seriousness. 
As you have heard that college students have been going through many consequences. According to articles and statistics, college students have gone through very hard time when they consume alcohol during academic time. 
Research indicates that the most successful strategies for changing student drinking behavior are likely to be multidimensional. Such strategies should take into account existing laws, an institution's own alcohol policy, and the people likely to be affected by enforcement of that policy. Although additional research is needed to answer important questions about many aspects of excessive student drinking, a number of colleges and universities are using a combination of strategies to begin changing the culture of drinking on campus. Those strategies include involving stakeholders, offering a range of substance-free social programs, conducting communications campaigns, managing special events, and building campus-community coalitions. College administrators may find elements of each useful in planning their campus alcohol programs. 
	First, it is important to ensure adequate staffing. A coalition of staff is needed to effectively reduce alcohol misuse on campus. Coalition members need to be able to link with health professionals, campus police, judicial staff, and students to connect students with alcohol problems to appropriate interventions. Coalition leadership should have direct access to the college president. If institutional change is to occur, it cannot be led by a staff person buried deep in the organizational bureaucracy of the college or university. 
Second, Offering social programming is another strategy. The type and amount of social programming play a significant role in students' use and misuse of alcohol. One of the most controversial issues is whether to have a campus pub. Although an on-campus pub offers opportunities for oversight, it may also be a liability because the college is acting as a host in the provision of alcoholic beverages (Gulland, 1994). The college should be sure it offers student-friendly social activities throughout the week that do not involve alcohol; many college students appear to be seeking a high-energy, social and recreational program that follows their biological clock, not that of the overseeing staff. The University of West Virginia and the University of North Carolina are among the institutions that have been successful in offering all-night activities that meet students' desires. Key to the success of this type of nonalcohol social programming is the role that students themselves play in taking the lead by planning and sponsoring such events (Schroeder, 1999). 
Finally, I highly suggest that taking alcohol free programs is the best way to reduce the rate of accidents in college. 
