Nowadays, many people likes to listen to music when they are sad, happy and angry, because music can express people's emotion. What's more, music to the human is influential, because it can affect through the tonality person's mood. The different music type will also cause the different mood. And if there was no music, people would have a much harder life. That is why music is important. So I think music is important because it can be a major part of both communication and special experience. 
People can through music to share a common feeling and communicate with others. In our childhood, we listened and learn very simple songs called nursery rhymes, these songs help us know what we should do or what not to do. Moreover, we will be moved even cry when we listen to some sad music. Why we would cry? The reason is that these songs contains singers' emotion and their real life, and singers can through music to communicate with the audience. For instance, Adele Adkins sings a very famous song named someone like you, this song was inspired by a broken love story of her own. So when people listen to this song, they could feel the song of sadness. Because she passed the song that include her own emotion and communicate with the audience. Otherwise, when people go to a party, they are usually through music to chat with each other, it can make people easier to communicate with others. Therefore, it is important for people to listen to music, because it can provide people a chance to communication. 
Music is also a major part of some special experiences. When people meet someone they loved, music is usually a part of that experience. People always talk about having their "own song." That means the music that was playing when they met each other for the first time or a song they both liked when they fell in love. When people get married, they will play their own song during the ceremony, because it expresses how they feel. Furthermore, we play music to calm our nerves or to stimulate ourselves to get on with a task, more specifically, listening to music can make people clam down when they run into a stone wall in daily life, so they can make good decisions seriously after listening to music. Otherwise, we will sing and listen to music in our religious ceremonies, because it can enhance the worship experience and we can through these music to communicate with other people, such as churches has national anthems to share love and prayed for people, in China, each school has its own school music, and we play music for our sports team. In fact, music play an important role in athletic contest. We use it to tantalize the other team as well as celebrate when points are scored for our team. So, music can bring some experiences that let people have depth impress and hard to forget. Just like Robert said, "Music is your own experience, your own thoughts, your wisdom. If you don't live it, it won't come out of your horn. They teach you there's a boundary line to music. But, man, there's no boundary line to art." (Reisner, 1962) 
Some people may argue that some music cannot make special or wonderful experiences and memories. Because people will become sad or angry when they are listening to some music that make them feel painful in the past, such as broke up with lover or their relatives gone, they will have bad feelings rather than good experiences. However, they do not try to listen to these music that make them sad, and these are not all bad experiences. Just like when people broke up with lover, which means they will find someone better. In fact, as time goes by, people will forget these bad feelings, and their will have a renew sense about these music. 
In conclusion, music is special to us because it can offer a good chance for people to communicate with others, and it also enhance people's experiences. Moreover, it is clear to be found that music is very important to our life whatever who we are, so it is a good choice for people to listen music when necessary. 
