ENG 106I 
Argumentative Paper Draft 1 
4/2/2016 
21st Century Liberal Arts Education 
In today's society, people don't esteem the term "liberal arts education" very much. The rising costs of higher education and recent employment market conditions have made people tend to evaluate the importance of education based on measurable outcomes, such as employment or salary. It seems like now education and learning are more and more about return on investment. Based on these standards, people view STEM major (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) as the most "useful" major for college students, and an Liberal Arts degree can be considered "unworthy". Last month, the Kentucky governor Matt Bevin made a call to promote STEM education and cut liberal arts funding, suggesting that students majoring in Frech literature should not receive state funding for their college education, so there will be enough funding to support more "job-friendly" subjects like electrical engineering (Cohen, 2016). He believed that this action could be beneficial to "future economy." The problem is that under today's intensively competitive environment, the society is so focused on financial success that it loses sight of the other important things that makes a person empathic, caring, interesting and well rounded. I believe that our society needs liberal-arts majors as much as it does STEM majors. 
According to Janeksela, a professor from West Virginia University Institute of Technology, the term "liberal arts" originally referred to a course of studies befitting a free person and encompassed seven areas of study, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, grammar, rhetoric, logic and music (Janeksela, 2012). AASCU (2008) defines a liberal arts education as: ...an approach to learning that empowers individuals and prepares them to deal with complexity, diversity, and change. It provides students with broad knowledge of the wider world (e.g. science, culture, and society) as well as in-depth study in a specific area of the interest. A liberal education helps students develop a sense of social responsibility, as well as strong and transferable intellectual and practical skills such as communication, analytical and problem-solving skills, and a demonstrated ability to apply knowledge and skills in real world settings. It is an education builds the foundation of a whole person: morally, spiritually, socially and physically, helps a student to appreciate the beauty of the world and discover him/her self. 
People that value return on higher education investments and post-college employment may argue that and liberal arts degree won't help the student to secure a well-paid job or a success career as much as a STEM major degree would, thus it is less important, even could be neglected. The fact is sciences have always been liberal arts' core. From the definition I mentioned before, the traditional liberal arts also consists study of arithmetic, geometry, and astronomy. To support study in these fields, liberal arts education provide trainings of critical thinking, teamwork, creativity and sensitivity to different percepts. Now, these subjects may be separated from liberal arts category, but it still based on the foundation that liber arts education provides. And in modern workplace, the skill learning such as critical thinking, team work, and communication that liberal arts education provides is critical to success in every sector. According to an article that published the result of a national survey of employers that describes what college graduates need to succeed in a global economy conducted by the Association of American Colleges and Universities clearly shows the importance of the liberal arts. The result shows that nearly 93 percent of all those surveyed say that "a demonstrated capacity to think critically, communicate clearly, and solve complex problems is more important than (a candidate's) undergraduate major." The survey also collected the following information: "More than 9 in 10 want the employee they hire to demonstrate ethical judgment and integrity; intercultural skills and the capacity for continued new learning. More that three-fourths of employers want more emphasis on: critical thinking, complex problem solving, written and oral communication, and applied knowledge in real-world settings. Nearly three-fourths would recommend this kind of education to a young person they know as the best way to prepare for success in today's global economy (Ray, 2013)." Clearly, employers value the qualities and skills that liberal arts education provides and view them as crucial to career success. Worldwide, a third of all Fortune 500 CESs have liberal arts degrees (Ray, 2013), for example, Howard Schulta, CEO of Starbucks', is majored in communications at Northern Michigan, Leslie Moonves, who leads CBS, has a degree in Spanish from Bucknell University. All of these shows that a liberal arts degree does not prevent a person from a successful career or becoming rich, if anything, it helps him/her to be more adaptable and prepared. 
I also want to point out that the measuring standard of a major or a studying filed should not solely be career or financial success, I don't believe that is the goal of education. So the determination that liberal art education is "unworthy" or "less important" is shortsighted. There is no doubt that we are now in a economic dominant society, the development of economy and every skill that could help future economy should be valued, but that doesn't mean we should neglect or sacrifice any other filed of study. The goal of liberal arts education is not jobs, but to make a person to become fully human. Literature, music, dancing, painting and all other treasure of human artistic civilization may not produce huge amount of fortune, but they bring spiritual comfort and make life worth living. Essentially, we are all human being and have this inherent need for beauty and spiritual inspiration. Liberal arts education gives an individual the opportunity to enjoy these wonderful human heritage and crystallization of human wisdom, also contributes to effective professional work, responsible citizenship, and a satisfying and meaningful life" (Colby, 2007, p. 40). 
I don't think anyone has the right to deprive or limit this right just because of the concerning for economy. I believe that our society needs liberal-arts majors as much as it does STEM majors. It should put aside the prejudice for liberal arts education and give all the subjects equal attention and opportunity. 
