Money Management Among College Students 
Recently, It's very common for us to find a phenomenon about that college students always have no enough money to buy lots of things they want although they are not out of money. They always waste their money in different factors in which they may not realize. That reflects money management plays an essential role among college students. Money Management, in other words, manage our money by using some specific ways to realize the maximum profit. Some people may think that just adults can manage their money, but in my opinion, college students can manage money by using their own ways. 
In my interview process, my interviewee considered that it's no necessary for college students to manage their money, she thought college students is too immature to understand money management, it's very difficult for them to operate these methods to realize money management in their daily lives, they can use the proficient method like adults until they step to the society. However, I think college students can manage their money by using means in their age. 
The common way for them to do is to use credit card wisely. This way was referred in one of the papers that I found: "Pass along money-management tips every college students should know." A recent study which report by Sallie Mae reflects that more a half college students has more than one credit cards to balance their money, and most of their balance are more than 7000 dollars, put money into credit cards is a good way for them to keep their money. 
Using credit card correctly is a skill for us to handle. First, keep a good credit history is very essential for us. If we miss some payments, the bank will record it, and that will decrease our credit score, more seriously, we may cause loan and lots of troubles. Furthermore, avoid using as many credit cards as possible. For each of us, keep one credit card to save our money is enough, it's useless to use many credit cards to save money since each credit card has the same function for us to utilize. More credit cards will also cause higher risk of financial debts, it's no necessary for our college students to take this risk. Finally, notice the credit limit frequently. My interviewee also told me that she always taught her own child to put his money into saving account to manage money in his age, so I do the same method with her. In my life, I always put my money into checking account and saving account separately, usually, checking accounts is at least 50 dollars, the large rest of money is putting on the saving account since they are much safer than checking account. I need to make sure the amount is no less than 50 dollars. Otherwise, I'll be charged extra fees for my credit limit. So use our credit cards correctly is a way for college students to manage money in their daily lives. 
Another method is planning our money reasonably. The author Bennit, J, T. in his paper "Money-Management skills for college students & parents " involves a Financial planning for us to reference. By planning our daily money, we can also manage our money. For example, we can create a special personal budget for our daily outcome. By dividing amount of money into different uses, like allocate some of money into school expense, the tuition fee, the book fee, study tools fees, etc. All these fees can be generalized unavoidable fees in our life. Others can be used for living fees, the necessities of life, clothes, foods and drinks of daily life. We also need to left specific money of the emergency fees for the unexpected future. Except these, we also need to allocate money periodically. Just to check the number of our money in a specific time, it's more convenience for us to control the money use for the next days, we don't need to worry about over the outcome. 
From all the opinions that I stated above, college students can manage money by using some specific methods of their age, they don't need to use the professional methods like the adults used to manage money. All these methods that I involved in this paper is universal used among college students, I highly recommend college students to try these methods manage their money in their daily lives since it's very easy to operate, and I believe these methods will work for managing our money in some ways. 
