Whether all people should accept technology education. 
Recently, the technologies has dramatically changed our life from different fields. As the fundamental factor of technologies, the technology education cause some heated discussions. One of them is whether all people should accept technology education. As for the issue, different people have different ideas. Some of them think that it is right for the importance of technology education. However, others believe that only technicians should accept technology education. Personally speaking, I deem people should accept technology education. 
From my interview about professor Nancy, she explained that the technology education for technicians and ordinaries should be different. Because of the technology education plays a different role and causes different impact of them. I totally agree with her in technology education. As a result, I will analyze the importance of technology education individually for technicians and general people in following parts. 
General People 
At first, the technology education is very useful for them to enrich technological knowledge and improve their interest of them. As we all known, the technology education are parts of general education for it contains physics, chemistry and etc. Through the development of technology, our life has changed dramatically. In the past, there were not cars drove on the road, stuff selected on Internet, and graphs printed by printers. However, right now, it is common that tons of car running on the road, people do shopping online, and use computer to learn and work. The reason of the change is technology education. From the report of UNESCO, in 1990, the adult literacy rate is 10.9% at the lowest, and 87.6% at the highest. However, in 2015, the adult literacy rate has increased to 36.0% at the lowest and 95.5% at the highest. The technology education people accepted help them to master these new technologies easily and quickly. So, people should accept technology education for use new technologies better. 
Secondly, it is necessary for general people to enrich technology education. Because in the modern society, the technologies becomes more and more popular for they have greatly improve the efficiency and reduce time. For example, the technology of computer and Internet. Right now, as a student, it is common to finish homework online. As a student in Purdue University, I have to learn to finish my math homework by Webassign online, arrange my courses schedule on My purdue, and update my chemistry laboratory video on Blackboard. Moreover, as workers, it is common to finish projects, graphs and reports by Words and Excel. So, it is easy to conduce that it is necessary for general people to accept technology education in order to use modern technology easily and expertly. 
Technicians 
The first points I want to express is that the technology education help technicians to master the professional skills and knowledge. In the technology education, technicians are educated to find the problems in technology and come up to new solutions. From the interview of professor <name>, she expressed the same ideas. She spoke that in the technology education of technicians, we educate student to find problems in real production and solve them. Moreover, she claimed that we also should help them to enrich professional and technological knowledge and improve their skills and abilities in producing. Take my own experience for example. In <course>, I learn the professional knowledge about the plastic and high-polymer material in lecture. Then, I do the related experiment in laboratory. I heat the plastic first, and blow it in a mold to form a bottle. From the process, I find the shortcoming of the method that the heat time is long and a mount of material is wasted. I am encouraged to find the solutions. From my researches, the whole process could do by automatic system in which the temperature and time are set so that the time will reduce and material will save. So, the technology education is very important for technological students and technicians to enrich professional knowledge and skills. 
Furthermore, the technology education is useful for technicians to develop some important skills. Loveland and Dunn (2014) list some crucial abilities of a human being in their article, teaching engineering habits of mind in technology education. Some of them are system thinking, creativity, collaboration, and communication. Take the ability of communication for example. In a producing and learning process, there are still some problems which have to solve by group work. So, in process of finding solutions, the ability of communication of technician will develop and improve. 
In short, the technology education is very important for all people. So, all people should accept technology education. For general people, the technology education help them to enrich professional knowledge, master modern technologies and improve the interest of technology. Moreover, the wide popularization and application of technologies push ordinaries to accept technology education. As for the technicians and technological students, the technology education help them to learn the professional knowledge, maser technological skills and develop other abilities. As a result, above all mention, I think all people should accept the technology education. 
