P5D1 Argumentative essay 
April 15, 2015 
Sterilizing Pets 
In contemporary century, more and more people have pets, which makes us have to face a serious problem: Overpopulation. Because animals live under human's protection and they can't control themselves in breeding season, their population becomes larger and larger. Nonetheless not everyone can afford enough food and accommodation, so some people abandon their pets. Afterwards, more and more stray cats and dogs show up, which means that they probably carry virus. It is dangerous for both humans and animals. Thus, people have to find a solution. One of the best ways to solve is sterilizing pets. 
First of all, sterilizing pets can control population of pets, which is the main reason. Like what the first paragraph mentioned, most stray animals bring virus. They are always around neighborhood, especially stray cats and dogs. Because almost everyone likes small animals, people would like to hold them and probably bring them home. Thus, people are likely to be infected. For example, there is a disease called toxoplasmosis, which is caused by a single-celled parasite. If people are healthy and have strong immune systems, they will be fine. However, if they have a weak body, their body can't fight against the disease. The veterinarian in CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) pointed out that if people are pregnant or not strong enough, they can't adopt or handle stray cats and dogs. ( ? )Stray cats and dogs stay on the street and live in a bad environment, so they can't make themselves so clean. Thus, to prevent from more stray animals showing up, the best way is to sterilize them. 
Second, having pets neutered makes people much closer to their pets. Before having neuter surgery, pets always have lots of actions that annoy their owners a lot. For example, cats probably loud vocalize, roll on the floor, elevate the hindquarters and so on. (Crosby, 2013) That behaviors make people freak out and they will treat their pets so bad because they can't bear that. Nevertheless, pets won't know why their owners are such angry. Besides, if one person has a male dog, he/she will so worry about him because in breeding season, male dogs are likely to go after female dogs, leaving their owners behind. Everything will change if pets are neutered. They won't have those behaviors and pets owner are satisfied with this situation. Thus, the relationship between pets and pet owners will be better if pets are neutered. 
Although some people support this perspective, some people still disagree with that because there are some disadvantages of neutering. For example, pets will probably be oversized after having neuter surgery. Neutering surgery makes pets oversized because their bone plates are delayed. The function of bone plates is to stop bones keep growing. If bone plates are delayed, the bones will be larger and longer. The delay of closure of bone plates can be prevented. If people sterilize their pets after pets become adults, which means that they stop growing, the bone plates will not be delayed. They can keep a good shape. Moreover, neutering surgery makes them do not have enough hormones so they will be less active. However, if pet owners spend more time with their pets, pets will be still active. Therefore, I still believe sterilizing pets is a good idea. 
In conclusion, though there are some disadvantages of neutering, advantages of neutering are much more important than disadvantages. Besides, the disadvantages can be prevented. 
Reference 
Crosby. (2013) How Long are Cats Heating for? Retrieved from: http://vetmedicine.about.com/od/pregnancybirthincats/f/Cat_estrus.htm 
CDC (January, 2013) Retrieved from: 
http://www.cdc.gov/parasites/toxoplasmosis/gen_info/faqs.html 
Sterilizing Pets		3 
