Introduction 
	In modern society, some students could say that they have to stay awake to work, some students have to stay awake to study, but these people have made the choice to not sleep. Other people have no choice in the matter. This is a disease called, insomnia. Insomnia is a disease that prevents people from sleeping, or at least sleeping well. One type of solution is called "Cognitive Behavioral Therapy" (CBT), it will not only can help people relieve the anxiety linked to chronic insomnia, and also improve their sleep quality effectively. Everybody wants to have sound sleep, whether it is an over-worked person or a person affected from a disease called chronic insomnia. My topic is that should the students accept the "CBT" treatment or not, if they have serious chronic insomnia. From my perspective, the students should be able to receive the "CBT" treatment, because it is the best way to improve the insomnia without medicine. In the rest of my paper, I will state that the CBT's benefits with other solutions, like medicines or lifestyle changes. 
How does the "CBT" reduce the people's anxiety? 
"Cognitive Behavioral Therapy" (CBT) for insomnia aims to the patient's thoughts and their actions that can disrupt our normal sleep. This therapy targets relieve sleep anxiety by using some methods and encourages patients to develop a good sleep habits. For instance, "relaxation techniques and biofeedback are used to reduce anxiety". (How Is Insomnia Treated, December 13, 2011). These strategies could be the effective way to control your breathing, heart rate, muscles, and mood. When we are being in bed, we should keep more positive thinking that could help us to being asleep instead of thinking the stuff you will do next day. Meanwhile, this kind of therapy ("CBT") also teaches us what to do if they are unable to fall asleep within a reasonable time. For example, if we feel anxiety and could not sleep all the time, we could use self-talk method to let us relax ourselves completely, and this could improve our sleep quality. 
One of the "CBT" method is that, it may involve talking with a therapist one-on-one and to consider your own thoughts and feelings about sleep. This method may encourage students to describe thoughts racing through our mind in terms of how they feel. The purpose of the method is for your mind to settle down and stop racing. In this way, most of the students could get much better experience on the sleep quality rather than those students who did not settled their mind down. Also, the "CBT" focuses on limiting the time you spend in bed while awake. This method involves setting a daily sleep schedule. At the beginning of the process, we will limit our total time in bed to the typical short length of time we are usually asleep. It may throughout the whole treatment processes. In comparison, the schedule of treatment might make them even more tired because some of the allotted time in bed will be taken up by problems falling asleep. However, the resulting tiredness is intended to help students get to sleep more quickly. Over time, the length of time spent in bed is increased until students get a full night of sleep. It could be very practical for us, when we stay awake and could not sleep in bed. 
If the students want to get this disease solved, they may need to see a therapist who is skilled in this approach weekly over two to three months, if they want to be improved from the "CBT" treatment. For people who have chronic insomnia and major depressive disorder, they should use anti-depression combined with the drugs. 
Lifestyle changes for the insomnia 
If someone got insomnia seriously, in order to avoid make it worse of the substances, such as caffeine, tobacco, etc. For instance, like some allergy and cold medicines, these prescription medicines could disrupt students sleep. Moreover, an alcohol drink is also can help them to fall asleep, however, it is more likely easy to wake up during the night. So, a good sleep habit not only can help us stay a better emotion but also can improve the conditions of the bedtime. 
For those people have the opposite point of view, they may think that this kind of treatment is long-term solution and it will takes a little bit longer to do the treatment. Because of these people is pretty busy of their work and also they always back home very late, and they usually stay awake not to sleep. Moreover, they have not enough time to do the treatment last over two to three months. It is critical for them to waste their valuable time, instead they could rely on the prescription medicines to get them fall asleep. All they need to do is that just eat a pill, or caffeine. However, one important thing is that they could be affected by the drugs seriously, the only way to solve this is by the CBT treatment. 
Conclusion 
	Overall, I think the students should accept this kind of treatment through their insomnia, in order to improve the current situations of this disease, we must use the "Cognitive Behavioral Therapy" treatment as soon as possible. The students all lived under the pressure, they really need to go to see a therapist to make a treatment. The insomnia may cause more severe situations, even if the insomnia is not serious at all. The "CBT" works as well as prescription medicine for many people who have chronic insomnia. It also may provide better long-term relief than medicine alone. However, it may take side effect to our body. Last but not least, students may take an ongoing insomnia should obey "CBT" procedures, if they want to accomplish success of the sleep quality. 
