P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
Apr 26, 2015 
The Importance of Marketing 
	For the managers of a company, how to assign resources the company has is always a hard question. Spending resources on producing products can improve the quality of the products and develop new technologies, while spending resources on marketing can improve the reputation of a company and make more people know the advantages of the product. Marketing strategies play a significant role in the competition of companies. The market has become more and more crowded in recent days. The competitive environment requires creative strategies more beyond the product itself. As a result, companies should assign a greater percentage of total resources on marketing than on producing. 
	Customers will not know a product without marketing. Considering the demand of customers and making marketing strategies accordingly are basic steps for a company to sell products. Even some well-known company will spend a great amount of money on marketing. Samsung, for example, spent around 400 million dollars on advertising for its cell phones in 2013, and the cost of advertising for Apple is around 350 million dollars. (Mick, 2013) That a company, as well-known as Apple, would like to pay for a huge amount of money for marketing shows the importance of marketing. Companies use different strategies to make products popular. If a company do not have enough resources to conduct marketing activities, it would be a big disadvantage. The role of marketing cannot be replaced and investments on marketing is profitable, so spending resources on marketing is extremely necessary. 
	Marketing strategies will help companies build their reputation. Reputation is mainly built by marketing because it is the most common way for a company to communicate with its customers. Volvo uses marketing to highlight its concentration on the safety of the car. It successfully creates a notion in customers' heart that Volvo equals safe, even though it does not have the lowest accident rate. (Wolmar, 2004) This is a good example about building reputation of a company by using appropriate marketing strategy. What is more, a good marketing strategy can make a product become a representation of its category. The brand Band-Aids, for instance, is representing a kind of product. It uses marketing to make the name of the brand become a term for a specific kind of product. It shows the amazing effect that marketing can make. Marketing can help company maintain good reputation and the importance of reputation already exceeds the importance of producing product. 
	The resources that are used to marketing are going to earn resources back. Marketing can significantly improve the profit that a company earns. Companies, therefore, will still have money after they pay for marketing. Coca-Cola was already selling a million gallons per year by the time Pepsi came. (Bhasin, 2013) Pepsi, however, targeted the market of young people and used multiple marketing strategies to successfully catch up with Coca-Cola. This is known as a part of Cola Wars. The marketing plan of Pepsi consumed a lot of resources but Pepsi got much more profit than it paid. The expenses are temporary, but the benefits are forever. Although it is hard to find a good marketing strategy, the benefits make it worth a try. Accordingly, finding marketing strategies would require more resources because it probably takes several times to find a good marketing strategy. 
	It is a common thought that companies need to prioritize resources on producing to ensure the quality of their products. But marketing is a tool to let customers know the quality of a product. The expense on producing a product with good quality can be estimated, while the expense on marketing could be unlimited. So if a company assign more resources to producing than marketing, customers will not know the real quality of the product and part of resources are wasted. The most economical way is spending minimum resources on producing and letting marketing strategies do the rest. 
	Companies should let marketing occupy more resources than producing. The main reason is that marketing can help companies attract more customers and build good reputation for a company. Good marketing strategies can also improve the profits that a company earns directly. When the market becomes more and more competitive, marketing becomes more crucial for a company than it ever does. New and creative marketing strategies are basic elements that companies are pursuing. The balance of resources should lean on marketing. Companies, which provide marketing with relatively more resources, will achieve maximum profit. It is also a way that save necessary resources. 
