Cultural shock 
Can you imagine this? According to a survey in 2009, 60% of international students do not know how to overcome cultural shock. These days, the number of international students in US increases rapidly. When they first come to US for studying, it is easy for them to get cultural shock. Loneliness, anxious, depress and other bad feelings caused by cultural shock have strong influence on students' life. So what should they do to solve this problem. What is the best solution of cultural shock for international students. Some people hold the idea that students do not need to do something on purpose. After several months, they will adapt to the new environment. Then their problems caused by cultural shock will be solved naturally. I think students should treat cultural shock seriously and try to fix problems caused by cultural shock as soon as possible. 
People claim that cultural shock is a common thing for international students. So it is not a big deal. Some people think that students do not need to make a serious plan when facing problems caused by cultural shock. Just let time to fix them. I found an article as an example of this opinion. " ... Maly still participate in social events that others go to, and doing it in her own way". Kathleen mentioned this in her interview. This statement is not cogitative. According to my interview, Dr. Steven Hillis said that People act differently when facing cultural shock. Basically there are two types. Some people choose to try their best to understand the new culture and eventually get used to it. Conversely, some people just isolate themselves and refuse to make any change. I think the author Kathleen only thought about the first type of people before giving that statement. If students choose to do nothing and do not put any effort on finding a solution of cultural shock, there is a big chance that some students will isolate themselves and make things even worse. 
After my search, I realize that making a specific plan to solve problems caused by cultural shock is necessary. Dr. Elisabeth Marx pointed out a solution with several critical steps. The first step is to recognize cultural shock before finding yourself in a depressive situation. That makes sense because it is always a good way to plan things ahead of time. When you find yourself feeling depressing because of cultural shock, it is already too late to avoid the damage of it. The second step is trying to find a solution instead of giving up fighting. The trouble will never be solved if we just choose to avoid it instead of trying to make it better. The solutions can be different from person to person, based on different life experience. The third step is do not hesitate to contact a specialist for the psychological support unless you handle this situation with yourself. Some people may have a concern that seeing a psychologist is not really necessary. In my opinion, there is a misunderstanding of asking a psychologist for help. It is a good way to vent your feelings. They are always here for you. Hiding the bad feelings will make things worse. The fourth step is always remember that culture shock is a temporary process, is not permanent. Always remember that most of international student have the same problem with you and they have solved these questions successfully. This step gives people confidence and courage. And the final step is to join a social organization, connect with the new people but not only from your own country. This step is the most important one because the key to deal with cultural shock is communication. These five steps form the sequence of how to deal with cultural shock. Some steps are try to solve the problems psychologically by give people confidence to face problems. Some steps are concentrate on the essential points. By following these five steps, people who suffered from cultural shock will solve their troubles easily. 
In conclusion, although cultural shock is a common thing for international students, it does not mean that we need not treat it seriously. Letting things go is not a good way to solve problems. If you are suffered from cultural shock, just make a specific plan as soon as possible. The five steps mentioned before is a good way. Keep your eyes open and actively try. 
Reference 
Kathleen Cushman(2007). Facing the Culture Shock of College, Educational leadership. P44-47 
E. Marx(2001). Breaking through culture shock: What you need to succeed in international business. 
