Argumentative Paper (Final draft) 
April 28, 2015 
880 words. 
College students are encouraged to take internship as soon as possible. 
Each student wants to make as much effort as they can in order to succeed, not only during their time in college, but also after their graduation. In order to fulfill their potential, some students choose to take an internship during summer or winter break. This is simply because they believe that the importance of internship cannot be ignored. For numerous benefits that internships provide, college students can take full advantages and apply these advantages wisely in the future job markets. Therefore, college students are encouraged to take internships as early as they can. 
The importance of internship 
The importance of internships should not be underestimated. Nowadays, the internship has enjoyed the high popularity in many universities. There are increasing large numbers of institutes, universities expend their major program into internship, and students are often encouraged, even required, to take internships. In fact, according to Gilroy (2014), companies are seeking for potential employees who have tried one or several internship during their college time, stimulating more schools to put internship in students' graduation requirement. This is simply because companies are no longer seeking students who only have a high GPA. I found a concrete example of the benefits of taking an internship in my expert interview with <name>, a Ph D student who explained how companies value internships. <name> noted that students who had internship during their college time were more likely to win the opportunities in job markets (Tong, 2015). He also emphasized that without his previous internships he would have never gotten his current job (<name>, 2015). Based on these examples, both Gilroy's research and <name>'s experience, it can be seen that internships can play and important role in the careers of college students. 
Benefits of internship 
Moreover, the benefits that internships provide can also lead college students to future success. There are lots of benefits that internships provide, like professional skills, salary that companies provide, and network with internship's companies. By taking one internship, students can enjoy these benefits at the same time. According to Greer (2013), most internship would help students determine which specific area they want to work for in the future. This is beneficial because many students with certain majors still do not have clear images of what they want to be or where they want to work. With this practical resource of help, they will have some ideas about future occupations and working environments. From <name>'s example, he compared his experience in Mc Kinsey to full time position, discussing his daily tasks, like morning conference, assigned work, and checking off work list. It is not like what he did at school. In the internship, <name> learned valuable social skills that cannot be learned in school. Compared to school, the internship experience is more crucial because it taught him how to be a successful networker. After all, he admitted that it is little boring to take this routine work, but he does not hate his job and it is totally fine if his future job is like this. Based on his experiences, it is better to take internships early and be competitive in the future job market. 
Internships bridge the classroom to the workplace 
Some people may claim that it is better for college students to take internships at their junior or senior year instead of freshmen and sophomore, as they have acquired enough knowledge and can work effectively as they join companies. However, this is not a comprehensive idea. Internship plays a role that connects classrooms and jobs. During the internship, students still can learn some interpersonal skills, acquire professional knowledge, and handle with the real world problem, which they will never learn when professor is giving a lecture. Furthermore, learning never ends after the classes. By taking the internship as early as possible, they can have opportunities to try to deal with these problems, practice what they have learnt in class, and find out their individual skills and goals (Coco, 2000). If students were to take their internships early, they have the ability to apply the knowledge they learned throughout their college career; however if internship opportunities are presented at the students' junior or senior year, they might not have the chance to apply what they learned from their internship. For the major, construction engineering and management, at Purdue, they require students to take internship every summer as their prerequisite for higher level courses. With more and more students get jobs after they graduate from this major, it clearly shows that students should take internships as early as they can. Therefore, there is no reason for students to expect to begin internship in their senior year. The more internship you take, the more working experience you will get, and the more chances you will win in the future job markets. 
Conclusion 
To sum up, college students should pay more attention to internships, take full advantages of internships, and try to take internship as soon as possible. Today, companies are looking for people who have valuable internship experiences. Internships are full of benefits, such as professional skills, salary, and network. More importantly, internship is the bridge between class and the real world. For students to become successful in the future, it is recommended that they take internships as early as possible. 
Reference 
Coco, M. (2000). Internships: A Try Before You Buy Arrangement. SAM Advanced Management Journal (07497075), 65(2), 41-45. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/231235641 
Gilroy, M. (2014). Colleges develop internships across majors and borders. Education Digest, 79(5), 30. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/1470793902 
Greer, T. W. (2013). Maximize the internship experience for employers and students. T and D, 67(5), 70-72. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/1370891926#center 
