Assignment: Argumentative Essay 
04/09/2016 
Draft: #1 
The Way to Select Future Career 
	Did you remember your first dream occupation when you were in kindergarten? I still remember my first dream occupation is doctor because I considered the smell of disinfect solution in hospital is typical. While, child's mind is always changing. When I came to high school, the chemistry and biology was not as easy as I expected. So I gave up my dream of being a doctor. I started to find other possible jobs that I can try just in case I have something to say when people ask my dream occupation. Due to the busy study, listening to the radio replaced other recreation like the cartoon, television and film so that I can concentrated my study. I always listened to the radio before I sleep everyday. From day to day, the little radio inspired me to be an anchor, spread news through radio. Just like what I said, I changed my mind so quick that I felt confused when I started choosing my future major in college. In my opinion, identifying our values by doing the professional tests like Holland Code, Strength Finder and strong inventory theory is the direct way to help us choose the possible occupations. 
	First of all, finding a person's value is the foundation of exploring the future career. Some people complain how tired their jobs are, how bad their working place are and so on. The reason why they unsatisfied with their occupations is choosing the jobs which do not fit their values. After the interview with Cara Wetzel, my advisor in college, I think there are two advantages of being clear with one person's value. On one hand, the clear value will provide one person more options of career. For an example, if a girl wants to be a teacher because she likes to work with person. Based on the girl's purpose of being a teacher, working with people can satisfy her so that all kinds of occupations such as counselors, lawyers or managers are her possible jobs. Another advantage is that knowing what you want can help person act decisively. In China, thirty percent of university students choose to play stock market when they are in college. Most of these students consider earning money is their value at that time. Playing the market brings them more money than they expected so they keep investing money and effort in this gamble. Different person has different value. To me, I will not choose to play stock market. 
	Secondly, using the professional test is also necessary when students prepare to select their future career. To my own experience, the survey called Strength Finder benefits me a lot. Before I doing this survey, I was not confident because I was not familiar with my strength. While, when I saw my results, I felt surprised that I have five unique strengths which are so related to my personalities. This kind of test makes me feel interested in exploring my possible careers. Also, Pulver's article "the role of personality and interests in predicting academic major selection" stated that using MBTI (Myers Briggs Type Indicator) before career decision is useful. One of the examples in Pulver's article support my opinion. According to statistics, 9.35% of the nation's population is the MBTI preference type ISTJ (introversion, sensing, thinking and judging). The table indicates that 10.86% of those employed as a librarian have the MBTI preference type of ISTJ. The ratio between the occupation percentage and population percentage is less than 1. 00 which means the MBTI is mostly accurate. Students can analyze themselves comprehensively through these surveys and tests. 
	However, some persons may claim that there is no need to attending college so early. They think the society is a better environment for students to consider their occupation. On one hand, society provides students a chance to know what the occupation needs to do everyday and accumulate some social skills and experiences at the same time. On the other hand, students have more time to try something new so then they can compare with these occupations through their true feelings. To a certain extent, the subjective judgments of future career encourage students and exploit their potential abilities. 
	It is true that society benefits students in different aspects. While, society is not suitable for the students who just graduate from high school. These students need to study professional knowledge and keep cultivating social skills in college environment. In another word, the high school students cannot totally experience all the benefits from the society. Therefore, society is not the best way for the students to prepare career selection. 
	All in all, based on the interview with Cara and the research about the related article, it is necessary to spend time preparing for the career selection. Students need to know what they really want and their purpose of future career. Also, identifying values through the professional tests is also important. 
	Reference: 
	Chad, A. Pulver. "the role of personality and interests in predicting academic major selection." :30-33. Print. 
2 
