Healthy diet for college students 
People used to only focus on satisfying hunger problem and easy to forget considering whether their diet is healthy. However, much more often than in the past, people's condition of life quality has already improved obviously because of the development of economy. People are more likely to take care of their health problem. For this topic, different people hold different concept of it in their mind. Some people regard the vegetables and fruits as the healthy diet. I don't agree with that opinion, yet I agree the definition from website, which said diet based on sound nutritional principle. In my point of view, this means healthy diet is supposed to not only consists of diverse food but also need to pay attention to the proper diet schedule and the how much food you get in. And I would give three specific evidences to support my opinion. 
First, healthy diet refers to diversity of meals, which focus on the balance. Eating the balanced diet can keep people in a proper weight, which means people would reduce the possibility of obesity or undernutrition. It is hard for people only have fruits and vegetables in long term, they are easily to feel hungry and want to eat everything to satisfy their physical demand, especially for the group of college students, they are special since they face the endless paper, reading assignments, etc. They need more energy than normal people to keep their hard work. People who keep long time hunger cannot stop eating once they start get food. So I don't think only eat vegetables and fruits is a wise choice. They are also supposed to earned enough fat and protein from other different kind of food. Also only eat a little will let people have stomachache, the illness would bring negative impacts to college student, such like decrease the efficiency of studying. 
Second, in terms of the time schedule of diet, different people have different plan to assign their diet. The times of diets per day is not relate to the healthy problem, which means more times of diets doesn't equal unhealthy. If one distributes the diet smartly for several times, for example, they add some nuts between two meals, plus control the quantity of food, he or she can also keep healthy easily. In contrast, if one never eat breakfast and lunch and have a big dinner or eat a lot during the midnight, I read the information from newspaper before, which said that it is unhealthy after you eat a lot, not only make your stomach uncomfortable, but also can cause the serious health problem. 
Finally, speaking of the development of physical health, healthy diet can promote one's body growth. Since get enough necessary nutritional elements not only can prevent the disease, but also can help body to grow and stay the function. Especially aim to young people and children. For instance, fish and eggs have abundant protein. According to the resource, protein is extraordinarily essential for body growth and tissue repair as well as healing of injuries. If one lack the protein, he or she is more likely to get heart problems, arthritis, muscle soreness, hair loss, low quality of sleep, etc. Based on my cousin's experience, she lose weight in high school by skipping meal, and only eat vegetables and fruits, however, her possibility to get illness much more often than before. Faced to the hard schoolwork, her health condition became bad. Luckily, she changed her meal plan on time, and she said that she felt much more energetic than before. 
In short, health diet including many perspective, not just one simple sides, and for college students, the selection of food and the proper diet plan is extremely essential for them. 
P5D3 
4/30/15 
