Regular Exercise Positively Influences College Students' Academic Performance 
Argumentative Paper 
April 25, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author's Note 
Contact: 
Abstract 
College students may have been told a hundred times that regular exercise is beneficial for their bodies. However, still some of them consider that exercise is a waste of time and it may occupy their time for studying. However, according to my interview and the articles I read, I find that instead of adverse impact, actually regular exercise will potentially improve students' academic performance. Regular exercise is able to change college students' behavior, personality and mood. With students' mental conditions getting promoted, consequently they can perform better in their academic career. 
Key words: regular exercise, psychological influence, academic performance, 
Regular Exercise Positively Influences College Students' Academic Performance 
Achievements on academic performance are an important goal for students in their four years' college life. When facing intense study, it's a wise way to improve learning efficiency first. Learning efficiency has been assumed to vary in accordance with physical fitness level (Clarke, 1958). However, some students may consider that exercise is a waste of time and it makes them more tired after studying for a whole day. It is undeniable that exercise is energy-consuming and will occupy some time, but the time is worth spending. In order to encourage more college students to join physical fitness, I would like to explore and focus on the specific psychological benefits of regular exercise and find out how it affects students' academic career. 
Regular exercise positively influences college students' behavior. First, physical fitness has a positive effect on students' sleep quality. Buckworth and Nigg (2004) found that college students who showed improvements in aerobic fitness also reported improvements in sleep behavior. Sleep is a process of serving energy conservation, body restoration, and thermo-regulatory, all of which help us to prepare for next day's activities. Exercise is a complex activity that can be beneficial to exercisers but may also stress their bodies. As Berger and Parks (1998) concluded, college students will benefit most under the moderate and low intensity exercise. Therefore appropriate exercise is significant. Second, physical exercise is able to promote study ability, which means improving output and at the same time reducing errors. Take proper fitness breaks between study periods will boost our blood circulation. The blood stream continuously transports oxygen and nutrients to the brain, skin and vital organs in the body. It assists us to think fast and clear. Third, physical exercise has a positive association with social behavior. When you go to the gym, you are likely to meet and socialize with someone new and someone like-minded. Take my interviewee <name> who is a basketball player as an instance. When first time arrived in America, it is difficult for him to fit this this new environment and culture but through playing basketball he had a lot of chances to make friends with both local people and international students. He got to know his best friend on the basketball court as well. He found that they shared a lot of hobbies and they were also in the same major. In nutshell, regular exercise brings students' a positive mental attitude and psychologically helps them prepare better for intense study. 
Regular exercise positively influences college student's personalities. Trockel and Egget (2000) devoted to investigate the relationship between performance among first-year college students and the behaviors like sleep, eating, and exercise. Since a common measure of academic performance is grade point average (GPA), they used it as an important factor and stander in the experiment. After analyzing the GPA of 200 students living on the campus residence halls at a large private university, hey pointed out "increased physical activity are in favor of students' self-esteem and academic achievement." (p.131). Each time those exercisers push themselves in a limit, they are given a sense of mastery, a sense of controlling over bodily functions, and most significant a sense of happiness. People who persist exercising usually have stronger willpower. If they need take some time for exercising, they have to find a good balance between study and physical fitness. Which means once they set up a goal or a task, they need to improve their efficiency and ensure to complete it in the timing plan. This kind of strong willpower contributes them to finish study plan in time and in high quality. 
Regular exercise positively influences college students' moods. Folkins and Sime (1981) indicated that "Fitness training is associate with improvements in mood states, an effect which is more pronounced with subjects who are more distressed or physical unfit at outset." (p.378). Physical fitness helps students ease depression in three physical ways: releasing feeling-good chemicals, reducing immune system chemicals and increasing body temperature. It also affects exercisers in three psychological ways: gaining confidence, taking your mind out of worries and dealing things in a healthy way. When students are studying in a good mood, they are able to cope with those tough problems more patiently. 
In retrospect, according to my interviewee's ( <name> o, personal communication, March 5, 2015) own experience, the physics educators' theoretical speculations, and the experiments testing, the results all proved the significance of regular exercise to college students, no matter physically or psychologically. Regular exercise potentially changes college students' mental conditions through influencing their behavior, personality and mood. From my perspective, the benefits it brings to students dwarf the time it costs. As your efficiency promoted, the time you spend on study is relatively reduced. Hence, I suggest college students include regular exercise in their schedule and arrange appropriate time for exercising. 
