Regular Exercise Improves College Student's Study Efficiency 
April 8, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author Note 
Regular Exercise Improves College Students' Study Efficiency 
Achievements on academic performance are an important goal for college students in their four years. When facing the intense study, it's a wise way to improve the learning efficiency first. Learning efficiency has been assumed to vary in accordance with physical fitness level (Clarke, 1958). A healthy body has a healthy mind. However, some students may consider that exercise is a waste of time and make them more tired after a whole day of study. It is undeniable that exercise will occupy some time and basically we can't do anything else while doing sports, but I think these time are worthy. Because regular exercise can potentially affect our behavior, personality, mood, and benefits us in all aspects. 
Buckworth and Nigg (2004) found that college students who showed improvements in aerobic fitness also reported improvements in sleep behavior. Sleep is a process of serving energy conservation, body restoration, and thermo-regulatory, all of which help us to prepare for next day's activities. Exercise is a complex activity that can be beneficial to general well-being but may also stress the body. As Berger and Parks (1998) concluded, college students will benefit most under the moderate and low intensity exercise. Therefore appropriate exercise is significant. Second, physical exercise is able to effectively study behavior which means reducing errors and improve output. Take proper fitness breaks between study will boost our blood circulation. The blood stream continuously transports oxygen and nutrients to the brain, skin and vital organs in the body. It assists us to think fast and clear. Third, physical exercise has a positive association with social behavior. When you go to the gym, you are likely to meet and socialize with someone new and someone like-minded. Take my interviewee <name> as an instance. He is a basketball fan and he get to know his best friend on the basketball court. He found that they shared a lot of hobbies and they were also in the same major. In addition, when he first arrived in America, playing basketball provided him a lot of chances to talk to American people and help him to fit this new environment as soon as possible. 
Regular exercise influences college student's personality. The person who commitments to exercise usually has strong willpower because it is hard to retain such a habit. If they can stick to exercise, they can adhere to preview, review and practice as well. 
Trockel and Egget (2000) devoted to the investigate the relationship between performance among first-year college students and the behaviors like sleep, eating, and exercise. Since a common measure of academic performance is grade point average (GPA), they just used it as an important factor and stander in the experiment. After analyzing the GPA of 200 students living on the campus residence halls at a large private university. they pointed out "The data examined that increased physical activity are in favor of students' self-esteem and academic achievement." (p.131). Each time those exercisers push themselves in a limit, they are given a sense of mastery, a sense of controlling over bodily functions, and most significant a sense of well-being. With better positive attitudes, the students can finish their assignments in higher efficiency. 
Regular exercise influences college students' moods. Folkins and Sime (1981) explored that "Fitness training is associate with improvements in mood states, an effect which is more pronounced with subjects who are more distressed or physical unfit at outset." (p.378). Physical fitness helps ease depression in three physical way: releasing feeling-good chemicals, reducing immune system chemicals and increasing body temperature. It also affects exercisers in three psychological way: gaining confidence, taking your mind out of worries and dealing things in a healthy way. When students are studying in a good mood, they are able to cope with those tough problems more patiently. 
In retrospect, from my interviewees' own experience, the physical's theoretical speculations, to the experiments testing, they all prove the significance of regular exercise to college students, no matter physically or psychologically. It is potentially changing college students through influencing their behavior, personality and mood. From my perspective, the benefits it brings to students dwarf the time it costs. As your efficiency promoted, the time you spend on study is relatively reduced. 
Reference 
Berger, B. G., Owen, D. R., Motl, R. W., & Parks, L. (1998). Relationship between expectancy of psychological benefits and mood alteration in joggers. International Journal of Sport Psychology, 1-2. 
Buckworth, J., & Nigg, C. (2004). Physical activity, exercise, and sedentary behavior in college students. Journal of American College Health,53(1), 28-34.1. 
Clarke, H.H. Physical fitness benefits: A summary of research. Education, 1958, 78, 460-466. 
Folkins, C. H., & Sime, W. E. (1981). Physical fitness training and mental health. American Psychologist, 36(4), 373-390. 
Slenker, S. E., Price, J. H., Roberts, S. M., & Jurs, S. G. (1984). Joggers versus nonexercisers: An analysis of knowledge, attitudes and beliefs about jogging. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 55(4), 371-378. 
Trockel, M. T., Barnes, M. D., & Egget, D. L. (2000). Health-related variables and academic performance among first-year college students: implications for sleep and other behaviors. Journal of American college health, 49(3), 125-135. 
Running head: REGULAR EXERCISE IMPROVES STUDENTS' EFFICIENCY 
REGULAR EXERCISE IMPROVES STUDENTS' EFFICIENCY 
