Plastic Surgery 
People not only like the person who is pretty, but also want to be beautiful themselves. Then more and more people start to consider having plastic surgery. It's an efficient way that people are able to change their original faces or other body parts in order to improve their appearance and become beautiful. When it comes to plastic surgery, there often has sprung up a discussion. Although the surgical procedure has its negative side, having plastic surgery is worth to risk. 
Safety is the top consideration when people want to have plastic surgery. Every surgery has risks, including plastic surgery. However, with the advance of technology, the rate for death has been decreased nowadays. According to Dr. Perry, it shows that the rate of dying in the surgical procedure is between 1 in 250,000 and 1 in 500,000. In the study of surgery death between January 2000 and May 2004, the American Society of Plastic Surgeons found that the death rate has been decreased from 1 in 160,000 to 1 in 350,000 (Perry). These are very, very low mortality rates. The data shows that the rate of dying in plastic surgery is similar to the rate of dying in the plane crash. Besides, advances in surgical techniques have made the skills of plastic surgery and the medical environment get improved. And nowadays, more and more hospitals involve the best health care and treatment after having surgical procedure. So now with the better skills, better techniques and better treatment, the possibility of the death occurs very low. 
In addition, without considering about the risks, having plastic surgery can make people become more confident and more beautiful. First reason is that having plastic surgery can improve their defects. Gold can't be pure and man can't be perfect. Someone was born with defects and someone has defects on their personalities. So having the surgery can change their appearance and improve their shortcomings and let some people have better life as ordinary people. "Let Beauty" is a South Korean cosmetic surgery television program. This program is for the people who have beautiful dreams and pursue beautiful life. The purpose of this show is to give those people chances to become beautiful. Huh Ye Eun is one of the contestants in this show. Before she had plastic surgery, her friends didn't want to play with her and people around her bully her because she was not beautiful and she had defect on her face, as well. Then, one day, the TV program "Let Beauty" found her and gave her chance to talk to the plastic surgeon Dr. Park. Although Huh Ye Eun had the severe under bite and over sized lower jaw, after having the surgery, Dr. Park improved both her functions and forms and made her become a beauty. After she came back to her daily life, she was more confident to show her beauty and her friends would like to play with her. Now, she becomes a model of a fashion company and she feels happy with her life. Different from the life that they have some defects on their appearance, they all become confident and brave to make more friends and show their strengths after the surgery. After they become beautiful, they will be happiness, as well. 
Moreover, having plastic surgery can make people have better life standard. Life never favors those who always follow the beaten path and content. Instead, life saves opportunities for people who are willing and able to reform and innovate. Those people who are brave to have plastic surgery to change their appearance will have better life style. And some people also change or improve their appearance to get more opportunities in work or even find better person in marriage. One of the most popular Korean singers Kwanghee has had plastic surgery before he got into his entertainment business. "Every time when I appear in public, I felt embarrasses when my nose made weird noses. So I decided to have plastic surgery. Luckily the plastic surgery turned out well," he said (Kwanghee). Having plastic surgery made him become more handsome and change his life to become famous. After he had plastic surgery, he got more fans in his singer career. Besides, because of his honesty about having the surgery, more and more people start to notice Kwanghee and start loving him. The result not only brings Kwanghee popularity but also makes him get better lifestyle. So having plastic surgery can make people have better life standard that they cannot get before. 
Plastic surgery is the enhancement of the body through surgical procedures. Plastic surgery can help people live happier, raise their self-esteem, make them more confident and give them more opportunities to go out and try something they wouldn't have otherwise. Social confidence leads to the person making contact with others, which is very positive effect of plastic surgery. Feeling good about their physical appearance and therefore starting to be more social and interacting with other people. Then people will start to make more friends and get more opportunities by themselves. All in all, although every surgery has risks, people should think about the outcomes and changes to make them be brave and if people decided to have plastic surgery, just do it. It's worth to take risks. 
Work Cited 
Perry, Arthur. Straight Talk about Cosmetic Surgery. Yale University Press Health & Wellness: 
Yale University Press, 28 July 2007. 
Jay D. Let Me In Korean Plastic Surgery. My Seoul Secret. 11 December 2013. 
MTV K. ZE:A's Kwanghee Admits He Did Plastic Surgery. MTV.com. 15 July 2010. 
