4/21//2016 
Argumentative Assignment #Draft3 
					Argumentative Essay 
There are many people in the United States that drink before the legal drinking age. "Although drinking under the age of 21 is illegal, people aged 12 to 20 years drink 11% of all alcohol consumed in the United States" (Fact Sheets-Underage Drinking). The thing that people don't understand is that if you are not properly educated on alcohol then the effects of it could put you in danger. People are not taught about the basic repercussions of alcohol; one of them being that it can become an addiction. The American government thinks that 21 should be the legal drinking in age; however, in Spain and in the majority of other countries the legal drinking age is 18. I believe that the legal drinking age of the United States should be changed to 18 years of age to bring about a reduction of underage drinking issues in the United States. 
	Even though the legal age limit for drinking in the United States is 21, people still drink before they are 21 years old. This is especially common with high school and college students who are eager to experience a new sensation by drinking excessive amounts of alcohol. One of the biggest things that stood out to me when I did my research was that in "2013 the Youth Risk Behavior Survey found that among high school students, during the past 30 days 35% drank some amount of alcohol 21% binge drank, 10% drove after drinking alcohol, and 22% rode with a driver who had been drinking alcohol" (Fact Sheets - Underage Drinking). This statistic is crazy because it is about high school students. Our society today is all about being older than we actually are. One of the reasons people binge drink is due to stress. They use alcohol kind of as a secret remedy for them to forget about their problems. A lot of teenagers also unfortunately fall under the influence of peer pressure and start to alcohol consumption for that reason. Nevertheless, the school system in the United States does try to educate their students about the wrongs of drinking alcohol. 
The United States does a good job in utilizing its educational services to teach the students about the effects of alcohol. When I was doing my research I learned a lot about underage drinking especially when I interviewed my advisor Tiffany Britten. She told me that she learned a little bit about this topic in middle school as well as the local police officer came in to talk about drug and alcohol abuse. This was really helpful for her and for all of the other students because they got to learn about it at a young age. She used this knowledge going forward in her life. In addition, according to the Underage Drinking Facts Sheets, the earlier you start to drink the more likely you are to be dependent on it later on in your life. For example, "the people that start drinking before the age of 14 are going to be 50% dependent on alcohol later in life. Also, if you start drinking at the legal age limit of 21 you are going to most likely be only 10% dependent on alcohol" (Underage Drinking Fact Sheets). This shows that alcohol can become addictive. If you start drinking when you are 14 it means that you are drinking for seven years prior of the legal age (Underage Drinking Fact Sheets). In this amount of time your body will get used to the liquor so you start to depend on it more. This can also be dangerous because it can affect your organs. If you drink a lot of alcohol your liver can shut down. Despite all of these negative side effects, some countries still believe that the right age to start drinking is 18 so you learn to appreciate the cultural aspect of alcohol consumption at a reasonable age. 
If you are 18 and you go to Spain you are able to drink even though you are from the United States. They have their drinking age at 18 because when you are 18 you are considered as an adult so you should possess independence and responsibility. The Spanish government knows that teenagers are going to start drinking around the age of 18 so they have made it the legal age for alcohol consumption. More young Spanish people drink alcohol but they don't binge drink because of the cultural and societal norms. I have noticed at Purdue that there are a lot of people that drink even though they are not legal to drink. I think the United States should change their drinking age to 18 because you are considered an adult and you are responsible for all of the choices that you make. If you set the drinking age at 21, the majority of the adolescents will still drink due to peer pressure and the temptation to not stand out of the crowd and be known as one of many cool kids. By setting the drinking age to 18, teenagers will learn to appreciate the culture behind alcohol consumption and won t try to catch up their years of no alcohol consumption by consuming great amounts of it in a short time and with this increasing the possibilities of serious consequences. 
In conclusion, based on the researches about the articles and the interview with Tiffany Britten, I think that we should lower the drinking age from 21 to 18, have a little bit better education of the effects of binge drinking, and understand the repercussions of drinking alcohol at a young age. If we lower the drinking age we must educate everyone properly. They need to know that alcohol can cause you to become addicted and that it can be dangerous. If you start drinking at a young age it causes you to become an alcoholic in the future so you must be careful, however, if the United States sets the drinking age at a reasonable age like 18, teenagers will grow to appreciate the cultural and social aspect of this deed. 
