P5d1 
April 12, 2015 
Should GPA System Be Eliminated in School Systems? 
It is well believed that using GPA system is the most efficient way in most educational systems nowadays. Both students and teaching staffs rely on this system, and are depend on them. GPA system has the significances of being easy to use, and convenient to grade. As a student myself, I am very familiar with this system. However, I have heard a voice stating that letter grades evaluation should be eliminated due to the downsides it has brought to students. Should letter grades be eliminated in school evaluation systems? It can be controversial question. According to my researches and interviews, my position to this answer is quite positive, and I believe that there will be better evaluations coming up to replace it. Thus, in this paper, I will provide evidences and stating the importance of eliminating the traditional evaluation system. 
The first concern about using GPA system is that GPA does not reflect on a person's true ability. GPA only reflects on a person's ability to learn. According to Conway, my academic advisor, he stated that a GPA score meant that the student had put in a lot of efforts, and he or she was more willing to sacrifice in order to do well. In nowadays, most people believe a student with a high GPA is brilliant; however, when we look in a different aspect, we can see that many famous and outstanding inventors or entrepreneurs did not even go or finish colleges. GPA reflects one's personal learning ability, but not how smart or how poor that student is. We could not judge a person's abilities just based on one's scores. What' more, Rediehs argued on an article called "Trust and Distrust: The Problem with Traditional Grading" (2011) that "Grades are essentially numerical and thus can only be appropriately applied to what is measurable, but not everything that is measurable is always measured in a course of study. A student too oriented towards getting good grades can miss or neglect those components of the course that are not graded". There are a lot of components and ideas in a course that cannot be measured correctly. For example, a student fails an assignment does not mean he or she does not know the ideals, it only means that the student cannot reflect what he or she learned or knew appropriately on that assignment. Thus, only looking at GPAs is not a precise way to evaluate a student's performs. 
GPA system also brought some negative effects over students. Nowadays, grading students has become an equivalent component in most educators' opinions. According to Thomsen (2013), "A 2002 study at the University of Michigan found that 80 percent of students surveyed based their self-worth on academic performance-more than cited family support as a source of self-esteem". In many students' points of view, grading has become one significant evaluation of what they are and what other people think they are. Low grades has strong counteractive effects over students, which let the students believe poor grades cannot lead to success in their future lives. Furthermore, grading system leads students not to think creatively. Many students' aims for studying is to gain better grades instead of study what really interest them. For example, Thomsen (2013) states that "students' willingness to take on challenging tasks diminishes when grades are involved, but without grades, students left on their own tend to seek out more challenging problems". Grading can truly increases one's ability to learn; however, when it comes to other ideals, most students have lost their interests in learning, and think grades over other components. To conclude, grading system do bring downsides towards students, especially it lowers students' self-esteem, and creativity. 
Many people may ask if there can be any solutions towards this particular problem. My answer is quite positive. First of all, thinking inside the systems, many other evaluation ways can be used to replace grading system. Conway came up with the idea of "Percentage" system, "A chart with percentages would work. It shows that the student finishes the course with top 20 percentages in the course. Sometimes using letter grades is a little subjective. If some courses are pretty tough, for example, 90 percent of the class got an 'D', the percentage system shows that you are the highest performing in the group". Thinking further, when we put our sights outside of replacing the systems, there are some facts about "Free Schools". One famous example according to Thomsen (2013) is the Montessori schools. The school is known for the "lack of grades, multiage classes, and extended periods where students can choose their own projects from a selected range". 
To conclude, although the traditional grading system has great impacts over both educators and students, we cannot deny that the grading system do brought downsides and negative effects over students. In order to gain good GPA, some students think in an extreme way, they start to cheat over exams and to plagiarize. Also, grades lower students' self-esteem and creativity. What is the most important is that GPA cannot reflect one's learning correctly. Thus, I am quite positive about the idea that GPA system should be eliminated and there will be some better ways coming up to replace it. 
