Does framing in mass media influence college students' discernment of hard news? 
The Media has, in recent years, become a pervasive cultural preoccupation all over the world. A person can choose between hundreds of channels at a time or instant access a web page. This helps explains why, in the field of communication and throughout other disciplines, media are widely studied. Researchers study media in many different ways including historically, media policies, and the effects of media, to name a few. In this argumentative essay, I want to specifically discuss the effects of the way editor or publisher "framing " hard news on transitioning college students (who just graduated from high school and begin the very first semester in University). Cultivation theory states, "The more time people spend 'living' in the television world, the more likely they are to believe social reality portrayed on television ". And for college students, who have been highly educated, are less likely deeply affected. However, My perspective is different. 
Framing affected transitioning college students' consuming behaviors. Framing news and image is a huge element that affects the audience's attitude. College students pay more attention on hot issue. And talk about the effects of framing Hard news, we would particularly talk about television new. How the media (television news) shapes college students' political behaviors? Shanto Iyengar, a professor of political science and communication studies at UCLA, has pioneered the research in the "framing effects " of news coverage on public opinion and political choice. He explains that viewers' " explanations of issues like terrorism or poverty are critically dependent upon the particular reference points furnished in media presentations. " In his book Is Anyone Responsible? , Shanto Iyengar evaluates the framing effects of television news on political issues. He finds that the framing of issues by television news shapes the way the public understands the causes of and the solutions to central political problems. (Iyengar, 1991). Since electoral accountability is the foundation of representative democracy, the public must be able to establish who is responsible for social problems. Television news is reported in the form of specific events or particular cases. Framing depicts concrete events that illustrate issues, while thematic framing presents collective or general evidence. In other words, how we think about politics suggesting that television determines what transitioning college students believe to be important issues largely by paying attention to some problems and ignoring or paying minimal attention to others. For transitioning college students who have less independent News consuming behaviors would be more affected. 
The attitudes of college students to certain issue are also be affected by framing. The idea of the media as "agenda-setter " was hardly new. In the late 1960s, Maxwell E. Mc Combs and Donald L. Shaw began studying the agenda-setting capacity of the news media in American presidential elections. They were especially interested in the question of information transmission - what people actually learn from news stories, and got attitudinal changes. Their research precipitated a stream of empirical studies that underscored the media's critical role as vehicles of political information. 
Mc Combs and Shaw argued that the most important effect of the mass media was "its ability to mentally order and organize our world for us. " The news media "may not be successful in telling us what to think, " the authors declared, "but they are stunningly successful in telling us what to think about. " the media's tendency to change viewers' perspective of candidates and structure voters' perceptions of political reality in effect constitutes a bias: "to a considerable degree the art of politics in a democracy is the art of determining which issue dimensions are of major interest to the public or can be made salient in order to win public support. " Media practices diminish the public's power, they let public believe the not only political issue they edited, but also change their opinion of issues easily. We say that practice is the sole criterion for testing truth. In reality, "veto players "' propaganda can easily affects college students' vetoing choice, and that is to say the way PR team framing the political news would affect college students' attitudes. 
Objectivity has been the ruling principle in journalism for the better part of the 20th century. Objectivity increased the quantity of literal facts of news. In a persuasive essay written by Theodore Glasser, professor of journalism at the University of Minnesota, made the point that "objectivity precludes responsibility. " General transitioning college students do not have the attitude of critical media assumption. When they leak of cultivate discernment, they would be more vulnerable and exposed to information and message, and easily get confused. However, people like editors of famous magazine, writers of daily newspaper, and spokesman of certain parties, who not only have adavanced education, but also already have critical consumption of information from the mass media. They are the exception. 
In sum, for transitioning college students, the effect of framing is significant. Journalists may take us seriously as news consumers but generally ignore our wider role as citizens. As a rule, they do not encourage communication, strengthen the public dialogue, or "facilitate the formulation of common decisions. " In fact, they may do just the opposite by routinely framing news in objective and episodic formats. And "even when the function of journalism is considered to be education, " in James Boylan's words, "the public's role is still likely to be conceived as passive. " 
Reference 
Iyengar, S. (1991). Is Anyone Responsible? Univ. of Chicago Press. 
Mc Combs, E.M. & Shaw, L. D. (1977) The Emergence of American Political Issues: The 
Agenda-Setting Function of the Press. West Publishing Co. 
Iyengar, S. & Kinder, D.(1987) News That Matters. Univ. of Chicago Press. 
