P5d1 
April 10th, 2016 
The advantages and disadvantages of joining student clubs 
On April 11th, 2016, the University of Maine "Asian Student Association offers campus a 'Taste of Asia'"; On March 31st, 2016, a student club called Ruff Day at the University of Connecticut introduced animal therapy to campus; On March 29th, 2016, student club in the Northern Arizona University "explores regional landscape to produce academic, personal lessons". When you type in Student Club as key words, it's not surprising to see tons of related latest news on your screen. Obviously, people never move their attention away from student clubs. Some people appreciate its highly offered opportunities to interact with students with various background, other criticize its negative impact, like facilitating bad habits, on students. In this context, what advantages and disadvantages does joining student clubs bring to students? From my perspective, I believe the merits of student clubs' participation greatly outweigh its demerits due to the fact that it promotes student's multiple skills, improves their abilities and academic results and exposes them to variety of career opportunities. 
Since joining student clubs offers student tons of chances to establish mature interpersonal relationship with members, instructors and even strangers, students are able to learn functional skills, especially communicative skills, in this process. Based on my previous interview on <Name> who is the director in arts and athletics department in PUCSSA (Purdue Chinese Student and Scholar Association), she cast no doubt on this issue, holding that joining student clubs like PUCSSA did enhance members' communication skills. She analogized student clubs as a big company in which members need to communicate with their group leader and any persons they need to contact with. Christina also took herself as an example, "as a director of the student club," she said, "I have to learn how to communicate with my group members, the chairman in PUCSSA and the leaders in other student's organizations, like USA (UKik @ Purdue - Presbyterian Church) and HKSA (Hong Kong Student Association)." Thus, we can draw the conclusion that joining student clubs largely improve students' communicative skills. 
Student clubs' participation can not only improves students' communicative skills, but also cultivates their ability of time managing. According to the tracking survey called SDTLI recorded in the article "Effects of involvement in clubs and organizations on the psychosocial development of first-year and senior college students"1 by Foubert, John D. and Grainger, Lauren U. (2006), a random sample of college students are required to complete the SDTLI in their fresh-year, sophomore year, and senior year. Consequently, researchers figured out that involvement in student clubs was greatly in relation with psychosocial development, particularly on a specific aspect of students' establishing and clarifying purpose, educational involvement, career planning and life management. Additionally, Christina Wang also voted for the positive side. She believed that given five major events each year, members had to be good at time managing. Taking a single activity planning as an example, members should face a challenge of managing their time among renting activity places, making budget and rehearsing. More importantly, they also need to balance between studies and working time. Therefore, involvement in student clubs can necessarily boost student's capability of managing time. 
Last but not the least, joining student clubs offers students high exposure to career opportunities. Based on the viewpoint put forward by Anna Pechenik Mausolf who is the author of the article "Education, preparation, vocation"2, student clubs participation benefits students' future career mainly in two aspects. Firstly, "it is important for students' careers to get involved and have something on their resumes other than the degree". Exactly, students active in student club are more likely to work out amazing project or to win price in competition thanking to accessible chances and support from other members. Secondly, members are closer to internship opportunities than nonmember due to their sense of community among students, interaction with instructors or specialists in specific fields. Even if two students are in the same level, the professor is more likely to write recommendation letter for the one whom he is familiar with. So joining student clubs reward students with an awesome beginning of career path by both embellish their resume and provide opportunity of achieving referring letter. 
As the rule of the student club is that freshmen have to be led and fostered by the senior students who have experience in club's work, student clubs are sometimes blamed for spoiling senior students because their tendency to disregard rules and be arrogant to the inferiors. In addition, some people also argue that student clubs cultivate bad habits such as drinking, smoking and skipping classes. Admittedly, some student clubs inevitably recruit students who are arrogant or have bad influence on others. However, it can never be an appropriate reason to discourage students to participate in student clubs. Student clubs, after all, are more often than not beneficial to students in multiple aspects. If students are more thoughtful when choosing student clubs, they are less likely to be spoiled or bought bad. 
To put all into a nutshell, while there are several critical voices towards student clubs in the society, the pros of student clubs participation actually far outweigh its cons, since it improve student's communicative skills, time-managing ability and provide them considerable career opportunities. Therefore, it's a rational choice to join student clubs. 
1 Education, Preparation, Vocation (Part One): The Benefits of Participation in Recreation Undergraduate Student Clubs. (n.d.). Retrieved April 11, 2016, from http://www.readperiodicals.com/201403/3256582211.html 
2 Education, Preparation, Vocation (Part One): The Benefits of Participation in Recreation Undergraduate Student Clubs. (n.d.). Retrieved April 11, 2016, from http://www.readperiodicals.com/201403/3256582211.html 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
