Final paper 
First draft 
Sharpen your eyes when shopping online 
It is universally acknowledged that internet has been playing an increasingly important role in our daily life. With the rapid development of science and technology, more and more people would prefer to buy the things they want online because it is more convenient for us that way. Compared with the traditional way of buying the things we need at retail stores or at shopping malls, shopping online allows people have more chances to look for the things they want and there are also varieties of products they can choose and the prices are more reasonable and we just search at the online shopping mall indoors every time when we need to buy something. Everything we need to buy is just a click away. What's more, shopkeepers are more likely to mark the prices of the products down on some special days such as single's day. Almost all of us would buy a lot of things online just because the prices of the products are really cheap though we don't really need all the things we buy. On the one hand, online shopping makes our life more and more convenient because we don't need to go out for the things we want to buy and that makes us save a lot of time, but on the other hand, it also creates some serious problems as well such as shipment problems, excessive consumption and quality problems website design, security, information quality during the time they shopping. 
	Of course, we don't have the abilities to avoid all the troubles happened to us, but there is one thing we need to do is that we really need to sharpen our eyes when we are shopping online. 
In China, more than 50% of Chinese people have the experiences of shopping online and there is no denying that online shopping is really attractive so that we can't say no to shop online especially the time we are in need of something. Attitudes towards shopping online vary from person to person although shopping online has already trending all over China. Some think that the prices online are much cheaper than retail stores so they would more likely to buy them online though they had bad experiences shopping online. However, some people would take the qualities and the true-value more seriously so they would buy the things they want at physical stores regardless the high prices. There is an old saying in China: Every coin has two sides. Shopping online exits advantages and disadvantages. Maybe we need to think over and over again when we want to buy them online to make sure that the things we'll buy online are in good quality. Also, shopping online for us tends to be a pleasant thing and it shouldn't be something to make us annoyed. 
If people want to be a senior and wise buyer online, the first and the most important thing you should keep in mind is to sharpen your eyes. Because there are so many kinds of products online and we can't make sure all the things online are real even at some famous website such as Taobao The biggest online shopping mall in China and VIP.com. Since we can't make sure to buy the real things we need online, what we need to do to sharpen our eyes to make our time spent in online shopping more enjoyable. 
Nowadays, many celebrities in China prefer to shop online including some experts. Jinxing a famous dancer and the host of a popular talk show Jinxing show once told her audience that she would more likely to buy the things she wanted but not to buy the things she needed because she would use another thing to replace the thing she needed. In a way, what she said really makes sense because we can make sure the things we buy are something we want and some situations such as we want to return the goods just. In a word, this kind of way of shopping can make our eyes sharpened. Some famous hosts in China also give a lot of suggestions when we are shopping online especially during the period of discount. To begin with, do not buy the things just because they are cheap. It is necessary for us to think again and again before we buy them and we need to check the quality of the goods. Then, the experts suggest us to buy the things online at official online shopping mall such as VIP.com or Jingdong mall. Thirdly, we need to see the sales volume of the goods we want to buy. And see it clearly online that whether the photos posted on their store are for commercial or for the buyers. After checking the photos, we need to keep contact with the support staff to learn more about the goods we want to buy. The last suggestion they give and also the most important one is that the problem about paying the price of the goods. We need to make sure that we use the third party payment platform to help us avoid being cheated. 
Based on what I have discussed above, I came to the conclusion that online shopping gives us more convenience to buy the things we want and it is not only a good way for us to save money but also we don't need to go out to buy something in such a cold weather. Besides, most of the goods online are in good qualities and there is no need for us to worry too much about that. What's more, shopping online will be a safe and enjoyable thing if you follow the rules of regular website. Aside from following the rules, it's also of vital importance for the consumers to have the awareness to protect ourselves. And the first thing we need to do is to sharpen our eyes. 
