Argumentative Paper, First Draft 
April 1, 2016 
Multiculturalism is important in the society 
	Four hundred years ago, British settled their first colony in Virginia. Once tobacco was found to be a valuable crop, tons of Europeans started to immigrate to America (Bailyn, 1988). It is the first and longest immigration era in the world. Also, it means American is going to be a huge multicultural country. Now, people from different cultural backgrounds formed a multicultural society, and multiculturalism is the most important component in this huge melting pot. Multiculturalism means trying to appreciate as many different perspectives and social groups as much as possible (Mullen, 2016), so if we don't pay attention to multiple cultures in our society, there will be discrimination, prejudice and other negative consequences shown up in the society, thus our society will be going to crash. So, multiculturalism is important in the society. 
	However, someone don't support the perspective that multiculturalism is important. Many conflicts arise today due to difference in opinion, belief, and also culture and race. Multiculturalism can increase the chance of conflict in society. Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, also known as ISIS, is a worldwide terrorist group who attacked Paris, Yemen, Tunisia, Turkey, Egypt, Brussels and other cities and countries around the world. Only three ISIS members killed more than 100 lives in a day in Paris (Yourish, 2016). Multiculturalism is one of the reason why they did so much and so massive attacks. So, Donald Trump, the candidate for the Republican nomination for the President of the United States in 2016 election, who strongly support the anti-multiculturalism shown up, and a campaign press release said "Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on." (Diamond, 2015) Apparently, Donald Trump want to help us figure our what happened with ISIS and Muslims, but, banning all of the Muslims entering U.S. is an unwise idea. It's the same as "you are a bad student so you can't do anything good." Those discriminate ideas said by Trump cannot help society relief the conflict, it is going to evoke more frictions around the world. Thus, anti-multiculturalism is not a wise idea to make our society stay in peace. 
	Someone support anti-multiculturalism, but the most majority people support multiculturalism and think it is a necessary component in our society. I am the person who hold the same perspective as other multiculturalism supporters. Actually, multiculturalism can bond the society together. But why multicultural mindset is important? "According to John Gardner, the biggest problem of having many groups in society is the war of the parts against the whole. Separately they don't have the power to resolve a problem, but because they are all tied together, one part can hold up the others for ransom -- everything can be frozen if one group's efforts are focused on thwarting another's," indeed, as a community in the society, we need to collaborate with other ones to resolve social issues together. Also multiculturalism will help us make more effective communications and wiser decisions. Barack Hussein Obama, is the first African American President of the United States. Obama stated that multiculturalism is a national strength (Obama, 2009), "and since then, he has deliberately set out to select a diverse cabinet, based on the premise that multicultural individuals have insights, skills, and unique psychological experiences that contribute to society," thus we have more international as well as the domestic intercultural contact opportunity among different ethics and communities. Also, as an individual, multicultural identity enriches everyone's life when there is shared knowledge of others' cultures. For me as an example, after I see and experienced western cultures, I can use multiple perspectives to think the same question. It helped me a lot on solving problems because the perspective from your native culture is a convention, and the perspectives from other cultures are the ones you have never thought about, so you can combine them, take the pros of those single perspectives and form a new considerable multicultural angle. Thus multiculturalism is important in our society. 
	After I talked about the anti-multiculturalism and multiculturalism in the society, I found out that people who have multicultural identity background have more benefit than the people who don't. As a college student, especially for the international ones who are about to graduate, have a higher chance to be hired if they have a multicultural perspective. The multicultural perspective will help employers to expand their market to other countries in the world, and they will have a more economical opportunity. Also, multicultural background can let you make more friends because of your unique and intriguing ideas which they never thought about. Hence, as a member of the society, pros of multiculturalism win the cons significantly. Even though multiculturalism can arise conflicts in the society, most of the people are supporting multicultural mindset, because multiculturalism can bring us peace more than conflicts. And multicultural diversity will affect economy in the society. Use China as a reference, Chairman Deng initiate economic reforms in 1978. Chinese economy grow significantly than before because government used to limit the international trading opportunity. Thus we can easily find that multicultural mindset have higher chance of making society better. 
	So we can easily draw a conclusion that multiculturalism is important in the society. More and more intercultural, intercontinental and international contact happened nowadays. Multiculturalism is the key to solve problems for every situation, and people have paid attention to different cultural backgrounds. For instance, eating is the most basic thing in daily life. Restaurants put vegan, vegetarian label on the menus to show that they value various groups of diners. Also in my opinion, New York City is a good example of multiculturalism because it has various elites working and living in this international metropolis, contributing themselves to built a better society. Finally, I hope everyone can see the importance of multiculturalism and use multicultural perspective to benefit yourself in daily life. 
Reference: 
1. Bailyn, B (1988), Voyagers to the West: A Passage in the Peopling of America on the Eve of the Revolution. 
2. Mullen, B (2016). Personal Interview. 
3. Nguyen, A.-M. D., & Benet-Mart"nez, V. (2010). Multicultural identity: What it is and why it matters. In R. Crisp (Ed.), The psychology of social and cultural diversity (pp. 87-114). 
4. KU Work Group for Community Health and Development. (2015). Chapter 27. Cultural Competence in a Multicultural World, Section 8. Multicultural Collaboration from the community tool box: http://ctb.ku.edu/en/table-of-contents/culture/cultural-competence/multicultural-collaboration/main 
5. Diamond, J (2015). Donald Trump: Ban all Muslim travel to U.S. from CNN: http://www.cnn.com/2015/12/07/politics/donald-trump-muslim-ban-immigration/ 
6. Yourish, K & Watkins, D & Giratikanon, T (2016). Where ISIS Has Directed and Inspired Attacks Around the World from The New York Times: http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/06/17/world/middleeast/map-isis-attacks-around-the-world.html?_r=0 
Dear reader, 
This time I used writing lab to help me generate an outline of my argumentative paper, it indeed helped me a lot, my thoughts are more clear than before. I think my paragraphs are maybe too long? I want to hear advises on the length of my paragraphs. And I am not so clear that my counter argument paragraph is okay or not, this is the first time I write argumentative paper so please help me finding my problems! Thank you!	 
