ENGL10600I 
Diverse Alternatives Arise from Two-child Policy 
In recent months, two-child policy has been a popular topic of discussion in China. When in the subway, I usually heard people said that two-child policy came into effect, and they could have two lovely children. In my view, two-child policy will be a benefit policy for single children, economic, but it will not be a feasible policy to solve social problem China have confronted now. At the present time, plenty of people believe that two-child policy will be an effective policy to fix China's aging workforce and shrinking population. However, on the basis of what l have learned, two-child policy will be only able to slightly alleviate the social issues in a short term. 
Many people believe that two-child policy can permanently counter the aging problem and shrinking population in China because people can have two children. In the case, China will have higher birth rate and more workforce. However, the fact is that two-child policy will not resolve aging problem in at least four respects. First of all, owing to the meteoric development of biology and medical, people are going to have further extension of life span Zhao & Gao, 2014, p. 665. The lower death rate means the elderly population in total population won't increase. Secondly, due to popular feminism, women have higher social status so that they have right to choose whether or not to born children. Some of female believe that if they have two children, it will have impact on career development. Surveys show that many Chinese parents intend to have one children instead of two children Stuart Gietel Basten, 2016. In the third place, newly-born population will reduce the proportion of elderly population in total population in China in a few years rather than over a long term. According to the estimated data on population trends in China 2016, Zhao & Gao pointed about that China's population would continue to grow until 2024 and then gradually decline. This means the aging problem and lack of workforce will reocurr 
Zhao & Gao, 2014 
after 2024. Last of all, Since the birth of children, parents need to provide them with milk powder, diapers and abundant nutritious food. Even though tuitions of public schools in China are cheap, parents need to pay heavy costs for remedial classes which are not affordable for low-class families. The expensive costs will cause many parents don't have ability to have two children. This also means the newly-born population will not rise significantly and the workforce problem will continue to exist. In conclusion, two-child policy will not be an effective policy to fix aging workforce and shrinking population. 
Two-child policy might change single children' life if they have siblings. Since l were a child, l wanted to have siblings who can share with me their feelings. Whenever l saw most of the foreign children have siblings, l was really envious of them. Whenever when l faced with many complex math problems, l thought it would be nice if l had a smart brother/sister. Whenever l felt afraid after l watched horror movies, l expected to have a sibling who can accompany me and give me comfort. Having siblings will change the character of single children. Nowadays, most of the Chinese children just think about themselves, even not respect other's advices. Having siblings can help them to be more more cooperative and generous instead of being egocentric and withdrawn. Furthermore, when single children' parents and grandparents get older or get serious illness, no one can help them to take care with their relatives. They need to ask for a long break which might influence their career development. If they have siblings, they will not become too exhausted and have less financial burden in medical fees and treatment fees. Fortunately, two-child policy improve single children' personality and life. 
To summarize, people should be convinced that two-child policy will not counter the aging workforce and shrinking population, due to the faster development of medical and biology, the higher social status of female and the expensive costs of having children. Thus, l positively believe that the aging workforce and shrinking population will not be fixed in a long term. Importantly, two-child policy is beneficial to single children. Singe children will become more persist and less selfish, and having siblings can help them take care with their parents and grandparents which reduce their mental and financial pressure. Two-child policy will be a helpful policy for children, but not for society. 
