P5D1 
04/09/2016 
Stock trading 
	As time passing by, the world economy have been facing lots of financial crisis, such as subprime mortgage loan and economic crisis of Greece. A number of people who have been seeing those crisis worry about that financial crisis will be happen again someday, and they try to save and invest their capital to increase property, simply for their future. For that reason, most of them put their money into stock trading. While a lot of people think stock trading is not a good investing way to increase asset because it has a high possibility of losing cash, I cannot agree with the argument. I believe stock trading is a good method to make benefits. The reasons are as follow. 
First of all, investors can choose their stock items. They can pursue low risk and low profit stock items or high risk and high profit items. In most case, many capitalists put their money in high risk and high profit stock item to make benefits as soon as possible, and they are not satisfied with the low benefits. However, most of them only experience high risks, which mean losing asset. After losing it, they maintain stock trading is not a good way to make profits. I think they lost their money because of their greed. If stockholders put their money into low risk and low benefit stock items, they would not lose their asset. However, people even do not realize that they lost money just because of greed. Moreover, they do not know that low risk and low profits stock items have much higher possibility of making benefits. For example, I have also been investing money into stock trading since I was a middle school student. When I started to invest stock, I really want to make a big buck and was so greedy. Sometime I put money in short-term like few seconds or few minutes for money. However, the more I try to make money, the more I lost money or missed chance to sell stocks. After a certain time, I realize that I should not be too greedy, stock trading is not a Lotto, and it require some efforts from me. Since then, I usually invest money in long-term stock items, which have low risks and low benefits, and I have been making some benefits. Therefore, I recommend to put money into low risks and low profits stock item for making benefits. 
	Moreover, investors can ask banks to invest stock trading instead of them. However, the problem is people only care about positive situation like that one of their friends got a success in stock market without banks' help, and they do not like to visit banks for consulting investment. If investors can study and teach themselves about stock trading, they would not need the assistance from the banks. In most case, but, they are too busy to study stock trading and to care about the stock market. Therefore, I sharply recommend to ask banks to put money into stock. There are various financial funds in banks, and professional fund managers will try to make best benefit and will consult with customers to decide amount of first investing money or to tell about their investing strategies. For example, I had visited a bank for consulting investment just before coming to U.S, because I thought I cannot manage my stock account in U.S. In the consulting process, a professional fund manager showed me their investing strategies, history, and price-earning ratio. Furthermore, he also showed me which stock items they will invest. To me, the experience was so useful. Thus, if people are not familiar with stock trading and feel they are not knowledgeable or confident regarding stock trading or they are too busy to pay attention to the stock market, asking banks to investing money is absolutely better than investing money by themselves. 
	In conclusion, I think stock trading is one of great methods to increase people's assets. Most of people think it is not a good way just because of high risk. However, stock trading is not a Lotto. If people want to get a big buck at a time, I recommend people to buy power ball. In order to make a benefit through putting money into stock trading, investors need to care about stock market, to choose low risks and low risks stock item, or to ask banks to invest stock instead of them. Based on those methods, people also can make benefits by putting money into stock trading. 
