Social isolation and teaching pattern 
Generally, people tend to believe that childhood social isolation causes disability of communication and socialization, the theory is true, but there is also a theory of how to prevent it from happening, which lead us to an important clue---how everything happened at the first place. 
In most of the cases parents are the reason, but nowadays, teachers are becoming more and more responsible for the their students social isolation. And in order to stop this situation, teachers' behavior needed to be corrected. A correct teaching pattern could influence a kid's life forever, and therefore it is very important to know that what kind of difference would between a correct teaching pattern and a incorrect teaching pattern. 
In school, teachers are in charge and their behaviors has tremendous effects on children. When it comes to a result of incorrect teaching pattern, for some reason, especially students' learning ability might be affected if it happens, and sometimes even develop into a problem. The first evidence i can offer is the article wrote by Rick Lavoie. He mentioned about how school teachers might be relevant to children's development. "For many years, professionals believed that the social isolation experienced by children with learning problems was an direct consequence of the learning disability. " and for that point we should know actually the kids might experience social isolation if the teacher teaches wrongfully, the consequence could be severe so having a teacher with no teaching correct teaching pattern is dangerous for kids' mental health. And more importantly, during the age before puberty, brains will have the peak for developing. And a thing like incorrect teaching pattern might send the kid to the wrong way, he might not be able to respond to certain things, then that happened it could become social isolation. It is all about how to set up a kid's thought. Biologically, if the brain could not receive certain signal well during this stage, it causes damage, and it is permanent. "As teachers, we need to understand that our verbal or nonverbal rejection of a child is readily observed and replicated by the children." said by Rick Lavoie. Sometimes, teachers need to master their way of converting emotions and they must know how to convey the feeling towards his or her students. It is always the key, if children don't learn enough correct social skills from their teachers, they clearly might be socially isolated. 
Obviously, an incorrect teaching pattern is making a kid negative and socially isolated. But there is a way to make things right. Therefore it really requires a teacher to do more research on how to adjust their teaching pattern to every student and make things right, which is the highest level of teaching. 
Correcting a wrong teaching pattern seems really hard, but actually, it only needs take a little time on knowing each student. Generally, most of teachers teach everyone in the same way, they might have really skillful on teaching but those aren't so correct for the most of the time. But in contrast, when a teacher could start talking with his students in private, and even get to know their life and hobbies, not only that would bring the students and the teacher closer, but also give the teacher a chance on what kind of personality his students might have. The better he knows them the lower risk of misleading, and that would be effective for reduce the rate social isolation during childhood, it only requires the teacher be more willing be a researcher and the outcome is correct teaching method leads to the result of more mentally healthy kids 
The difference that could be make between in correct and correct teaching pattern is huge. Therefore for teachers, the more you know about your students , the more accurate you teaching pattern would be, and with a correct teaching method, there will be more children that won't be suffering the pain of social isolation. 
