Do Not Ignore Sleep Problems 
Recent research has proven that students are not getting appropriate and restful sleep hours. Collage is a time of education, development, advancement, and learning, accompanied by a healthy does of stress. Sleep disorders of collage students, especially full-time students who are experiencing high levels of stress because of demands of academic performance, present an intriguing topic for examination. Therefore, in order to get good grades, students always have sleep problems. However, students should not ignore sleep problems to keep high score on their study on my view. 
According to my article on sleep disorders and oversleeping, day school students actually have a big population of sleep disorders. (Peg Dawson, Ed D, NCSP, 2002) A common problem in school is students sleep less on weekday, so they "catch up" their sleep on weekends. Most students stay up on weekdays in order to do their homework or prepare for exams. It might seem like a reasonable sacrifice to give up a little sleep to hit the books late into the night, but new research says this strategy doesn't work. With biological and hormonal changes making students inclined to sleep later, after a week of school students may want to spend most of Saturday in bed. This much sleep isn't healthy, and will actually make students feel more tired, not less. Therefore, Sleep disorders will decrease students' learning efficiency. In other words, it is impossible to keep good grades by staying up which effect your sleep quality. 
Secondly, based on the interview on Wang Yan, a professor in Beijing University, sleep disorder could disturb students' mental states, which can actually compound energy problems since sleep deprivation can make students even more listless and tired. Students always get unexpected performance, such as late for classes, could not concentrate on what teacher said, and even fell in sleep during class. Furthermore, under the pressure of exam, not only sleeplessness but also insomnia is a commonplace occurrence among students. Sleep is needed to regenerate certain parts of the body, especially the brain, so that it may continue to function optimally. Some organs, such as muscles, are able to regenerate even when a person is not sleeping so long as they are resting. It's acknowledged that our body produces more protein molecule; give the body the ability to fight infection and stay healthy, compared to busy time. In this way students can conclude that high quality sleep not only could reduce stress could also help lower blood pressure and elevated levels of stress hormones. Thus, students who give up sleep will also affect their health. Perhaps students can do excellent on their test for several times, but it is not a long-term solution for keeping grades. 
Moreover, as a student, I also confronted a sleep problem. In the first two weeks of college study, I usually got up at 8: 00 in the morning. Sometimes I felt really tired and dizzy when I got up, because I might stay up late or have a junk sleep. However, when the first midterm exam was coming, I started to stay up to prepare for the exam. The result is that in the morning I could not get over myself and skipped the morning class. Thus I must use more time to catch up what I missed in the class. It did work at the first midterm, because of my good grades. However, compare to the first exam, I was not optimistic about the result of the second midterm. Afterwards, I realized that staying up to study maybe helped prepare test to some extent. To be honest, the good result is built on good performance at school. That's why keeping a good sleep habit is essential. Additionally, there's no harm in staying up late occasionally, which would not impact on your sleep cycles. All in all, taking myself for an example, students should keep a good sleep habit instead of staying up at night. 
In conclusion, sleep disorder among students is a big topic in the modern society. Sleep disorders affect students' daily life. It makes them have less energy, work efficiency and also cause potential health problems. What's more, sleeplessness and oversleep is the most common sleep disorders among campus, students need to understand how to deal with their sleep hours and balance the time of sleep and study, so that they can have better performances at school and reached an extraordinary result. In terms of what I discussed above, sleep disorders will decrease students' learning efficiency, have a negative effect on students' health. Furthermore, there is also such evidence, which shows that giving up sleep to study is not a long-term solution to improve scores. As a result, in my opinion, students should value the importance of sleep habits rather than only pay an attention on the study. 
Citation: 
* Jensen, Dallas R. "Understanding Sleep Disorders In A College Student Population." Journal Of College Counseling 6. 1 (2003): 25. Professional Development Collection. Web.2Nov.2014. Retrievefromhttp://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/store/10.1002/j.2161-1882.2003.tb00224.x/asset/j.2161-1882.2003.tb00224.x.pdf?v=1&t=i216p1n4&s=cffadd2f468d3943855096911fde19cb26e73f69 
* The Effects of Sleep Deprivation on Brain and Behavior. (n.d.). Retrieved December 9, 2014, from http://serendip.brynmawr.edu/exchange/node/1690 
* Sacrificing Sleep For Study Time Doesn't Make the Grade. (n.d.). Retrieved December 9, 2014, from 
http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/sleep-newzzz/201209/sacrificing-sleep-study-time-doesn-t-make-the-grade 
