P5D1 
4/12/2015 
Loosing fat is not easy 
As obesity became a growing problem, our awareness of fitness has also raised. In last few decades, many programs of both diet and exercise had been made for the sale. Most of them are effective programs, made by certified professionals. However, trend of obesity is still going uphill. I believe that's because loosing fat is hard! 
Diet is boring and plain. This make loosing fat less enjoyable, which makes it hard. Loosing fat require us to eat less and eat clean, meaning there will be much fewer fat and sugar in our dishes. For those of you who are not familiar with the chemistry behind cooking, fat and sugar are the most important two flavoring agents. Fat, not only an excellent energy storage but also an essential media for holding on to flavoring molecules. Most flavoring molecules are repelled by water, which makes fat the only place they can stay in. Sugar, on the other hand, combined with denatured protein while cooking to create the meaty flavor and polish the meat with a coat of delicious brown color. Of course, sugar is the key to hundreds of sweet receipts. Now, imagine that all those wonderful flavors and desserts are vanished but you still have to eat to keep your body functioning. This is not fun. This is not pleasant. This is hard! 
Exercising is painful and time consuming. That makes loosing fat even harder. Doctors recommended an hour of exercise every day to keep our body health. We might need to train a little harder and longer for burning off extra layer of fat. No one would like to go to gym every day for hours and come back home to eat flavorless chicken breast and salads. However, that is the most optimum and efficient way. The more consistent and struck you are, shorter the process is going to continue. As time goes on, your body will adapt to your life style, which makes your fat loosing process slower, somethings even a plateau. This will lead a lot of people to a motivation breakdown. They will start to doubt their methods and finally lead to giving up. This is not an unusual thing to see, and that's why loosing fat is not easy. 
A big number of athletes are really lean and have been lean for a long time. They did not seems to have trouble manage their weight. This is completely true! It does seems unfairly easy for them to stay fit. However, we should notice that these athletes has a entire team of professionals to prepare them for competitions or shows. Also, most of them love their career and treat it extremely seriously. They are well trained, they eat right and they do everything else scientifically to maintain and improve their conditions. After adding up all these they have to do, maybe losing fat is as easy as it appear to be. 
No perfect things are easy to get, they all require time and hard work. Hard work will never betray us! All in all, losing fat itself is not hard but the effort and time that it requires make it hard. 
