Personality and Interaction is Important for Roommates' Relationship 
Purdue University 
College life can be a difficult time for new individuals. Freshmen go through psychological and physical changes during the first few days of their college life. Some individuals get homesick while others are fraught with unending episodes of depression. Due to this, an individual requires support from his or her social circles. The relationship an individual has with his or her roommate is of utmost importance. Personality and interaction are central in creating roommate relationships between individuals. 
The personalities of two college students who are sharing a room can determine the type of relationship that they will have with each other. When individuals have similar personalities, then they are able to share the same communication characteristics. As a result, these two individuals will be able to understand each other (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). When roommates engage in a conversation where they understand each other, then they are able to know what to expect form each other (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). 
In addition, increased communication and understanding between roommates allows individuals to express their feelings and thoughts for each other in a verbal manner (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). As a result, these individuals are able to attain a higher level of satisfaction in their relationship with each other. It is evident that communication is central to the establishment of a meaningful relationship between college roommates (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). 
According to the Predicted Outcome Value (POV) theory, individuals who assumed that they had similar personalities were more likely to have high quality roommate relationships with each other (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). Due to the similarity in traits and personalities, these first year roommates have a higher chance of becoming roommates during their second year in college (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). Furthermore, the POV theory also suggests that individuals who do not live together as roommates have the least likelihood of living together as roommates in the future. Additionally, these individuals are less likely to have a positive first time interaction with each other. This underscores the importance of personality traits in building roommate relationships amongst college students. 
According to Wong and Bond (1999), similar personality traits between roommates do not guarantee that the roommates will have a strong relationship. This contradicts the earlier conviction that placed importance on the similarity in personalities between roommates. Friendship is built on the personal interaction between individuals (Wong and Bond, 1999). In this regard, roommates construct their relationship based on their personal interaction, not because they have been forced to act as roommates. 
On the other hand, when an individual perceives his or her roommate to possess desirable qualities, then there is a high likelihood that their relationship will be of a high quality. This positive perception of a roommate's personality usually results in the creation of strong relationships between roommates (Wong and Bond, 1999). An individual is more likely to develop a strong relationship with a roommate if he thinks he possesses positive qualities such as being caring and helpful. 
When the first interaction between individuals is positive, then they are more likely to develop a strong roommate relationship (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). When individuals share common traits and attributes, then their initial impression of each other will be positive. As a result, their positive first impression will foster subsequent interactions (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). As a result, these individuals will create a strong roommate relationship based on their initial contact. All in all, personality plays an important role in determining the direction roommate relationships take. 
The personalities of individuals are not the only factors that influence the longevity and strength of the relationship between roommates. The interaction between the individuals involved also plays an important part in shaping the relationship present between roommates. While initial impressions may help establish the first interaction between roommates, subsequent interaction between roommates is required to develop and advance their relationship (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). 
According to the POV theory, satisfaction in roommate relationship can only be attained through the subsequent conversations that follow the initial impressions (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). After experiencing positive initial impressions with each other, roommates can work on building a more satisfying and stronger relationship through subsequent interaction with each other. This can be attained through conversations. Individuals share pertinent information with each other through conversations. Individuals can also satisfy their roommate relationship by engaging in shared activities. 
Interaction between individuals is also important in sustaining a roommate relationship. In the case of a conflict, the type of interaction between the individuals involved will determine the manner in which this conflict becomes resolved (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). This is because individuals with a positive type of interaction are more likely to develop good communication strategies and patterns. In addition, this will help them develop effective and constructive ways of resolving conflicts (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). 
Using constructive methods of resolving conflict between roommates has been associated with increased levels of satisfaction in roommate relationships (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). In addition to their satisfaction, resolving conflicts also helps the parties involved to develop their conflict resolution skills (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004). In addition, an individual' satisfaction with a roommate relationship is bound to make this relationship even stronger. 
Following the initial contact, roommates are bound to interact with each other once they start living together. As the friendship between these individuals develops, they develop a need to communicate. Their interaction allows them to share important and sensitive information with each other (Wong and Bond, 1999). Interaction brings about self-disclosure. As a result, the relationship between roommates grows stronger and the roommates attain a higher level of satisfaction in their relationship. 
As aforementioned, an individual's perception of his or her roommate affects the type of relationship developed between the two individuals (Wong and Bond, 1999). When an individual is perceived to possess positive attributes, then he or she can establish a positive relationship with roommates. Self-disclosing is, whoever, not the only way through which a roommate can learn about his or her roommate. When roommates interact by engaging in social activities, they are able to learn more about each other. This allows them to enhance the perceptions they have of each other (Wong and Bond, 1999). This in turn allows them to develop a stronger relationship with each other. 
Interaction between roommates also has the potential of eliminating prejudices, leading to the establishment of stronger social bonds roommates and their social circles (Shook and Fazio, 2011). Continued interactions between roommates can lead to the transference of particular types of tolerance from one individual to another (Shook and Fazio, 2011). For instance, an individual with a roommate who belongs to a separate racial background may develop a tolerance for that particular racial group through continued interaction with his roommate. This in turn allows him or her to interact well with his roommate and individuals from the same race who belong to his roommate's social circles. Eventually, the roommate relationship grows stronger and attains more meaning. 
To sum up, I think Personality and interaction are central to creating roommate relationship between individuals. Some would say that sharing the same culture is the most important for roommate's relationship since the same background would help people to find common trait with others. However, Similar personalities allow individuals to strike a positive initial impression and resolve conflicts more easily leading to the establishment of a strong relationship. Subsequent interaction also allows roommates to attain self-disclosure and tolerance which serves to boost satisfaction in the relationship as well as increase the relationship's strength. 
