prediction of earthquake 
With over 13,000 earthquakes around the world each year having a Richter magnitude of 4. 0 or greater(wikipedia). Most of scientists believe that it is necessary to predict the earthquake before it happen, these predictions would allows the saving for both people and animal, in which, Evacuation centers and prepared. But other materials shows that those predictions could be unreliable. When observing the earth, there have been no obvious signs that indicate the event. Scientists have noted that just before an earthquake hits vibrations can be detected, although this leaves little to no time for escape (Planet Science, n.d.). Therefore, should we predict earthquakes before it happen? To be honest, it is unpredictable right now. That is due to the variable of rocks, their movement is totally irregular. Even if there were some evidences to prove the reliability of perditions, but the time left for residences to leave the place were too short, only a few seconds. 
To begin with, the strongest claim against the prediction of earthquakes is that there is not enough spare time for people to evacuate. According to the data which collected by scientist, they do create sophisticated models of earthquakes and study the history of quakes along fault lines, but the nature is variable, rock materials, minerals, fluids, temperatures, and pressures were changed all the time. That is why scientists could not give us a exact date which an earthquake will happen. Unless the scientists keep watch on the change of rocks, therefore, they may know earthquakes will happen in next couple of minutes. However, that is useless, it is too short for residences to evacuate. For example, in Japan, the whole island is on the earthquake zones, the earthquake almost happen every week, that is the reason that the government have to improve the study of earthquakes. Therefore, Japan has the most advance equipments to predict earthquakes. However, that still could not fully protect people who live in Japan when earthquake comes, because after prediction, there may be only one minute left before it occur, the evacuate time left would be too short to escape, the damage of earthquake may finish within 20 seconds. So, the people who successful evacuate may live in the first floor, or at that time they were stay outside. It is best to learn the methods that how to survive from earthquakes other than to believe the prediction of earthquakes, you never know the exact time when it occurs. 
In the opposite side, the claim which support the prediction of earthquake claims that the probability of a future earthquake can be calculated, based on scientific data. scientists at the US Geological Society(USGS) were already estimated the earthquakes may occur for the next 30 years in San Francisco. "To permit danger buildings to be evacuated, the most danger place to be cleared, and hospital and rescue teams to be prepared and on standby"(David Petley). That may allow people to prepare, and will help scientists to know the exactly date. However, scientists have no concrete evidence to prove signals of an earthquake, "We can create earthquakes under controlled conditions in a laboratory, or observe them close-up in a deep mine, but those are special situations that may not look very much like the complicated faults that exist at depth in the crust where large earthquakes occur," says Michael Blanpied(Erin Mc Carthy), they may get an date like around May 2014, but they will not get an exact date. That is due to the variable of rocks, you would never know neither the exact date when it occurs nor the exact location, any prediction made would encourage people to live in fear. Therefore, the claims of the probability of future earthquakes will not give people positive effects, except fear. 
Last but not the least, the claim against the prediction that public and also government do not fully trust those prediction, for instance, 1975: Haicheng, China, 1985-1993: Parkfield, USA, 2009: L'Aquila, Italy (wikipedia). let's see 2009: L'Aquila, Italy (wikipedia), scientists were successful predict that the mayor of L'Aquila, Italy will have an earthquake within 24 hours, and an earthquake smaller than M 2. 3 occurred. And then, At the the same day scientists made another prediction about another huge earthquake will occur, it also successful. However, the public do not believe which had predicted by scientists, that cause more than 60000 buildings collapsed, hundreds of people died, thousands of people left homeless. Although the predictions were accurate, they did not receive positive effects, which people do not believe, and also had been muzzled by Italian government. Therefore, with thousands of earthquakes happened all around the world every year, but only very few were successful prediction. Because of the unawareness of local government and residents, Those successful prediction would be ignored. 
In conclusion, the prediction of earthquake is unreliable, and inaccurate. After the " prediction", the time left for people to evacuate were too short. Moreover, due to the unreliable of earthquake prediction, it is hard for public to trust on an occasional successful prediction. Thus, Inaccurate prediction would make people live with fear, and when earthquake occurs, it can not reduce the damage. 
