P5D1 
April 10th , 2015 
ACG have positive effect on people's living style 
Around 89% children have personal computer or other video game-capable equipment, and they spend around 40 hours per week consuming all forms of media. And there are more and more adolescent would to spend time with their computers rather than walk out of their door and make friends. Besides, there are thousands of people crazy for Marvel super hero movies. Those thing are the evidence that ACG which is animation, comic and games is invading our life. And at least affects people's living style on the time management, daily consume and social aspects. Because it has huge influence on people especially adolescent and young adults, ACG as a new industry was usually discredited by lot of critics . But after my research, I found that under the disrepute, ACG is good for people in several aspects. 
Firstly, ACG helps people reduce pressure and relax. As we all know that college students are under a lot of pressure from life. For example, they got exhausted in homework, worried about their GPA and felt anxious about how to make new friends. There are too many things bother people. In that case, it is a good choice for them to banish those griefs for a while and start a adventure in comic books. The publication, The Comics and Their Appeal to the youth of Today, I found on the Internet also support my view. The author did several interviews of students which reveals comics pleasure people in four aspects , they are the thrill of danger and adventure, story value, humor and wish fulfillment. Those pleasure can help them relax from their stressful life.(Kinneman, 331). In addition, the hero in animation and comic who is always vigorous and courageous will influence people. The reader will spontaneously mimic their characteristics and become optimistic to the hamper in life. 
Secondly, animation, comic and games can help people stimulate imagination and thought and the development of children intelligence. The cartoon and comic like Spongebob and Micky mouse fulfilled my childhood memory. The reason why our parents let us read so many comic books is that in some degree, cartoon and comic is kind of educational enlightenment for us. Children learn lots of new words through them, and the image and video inside inside the animation and games can help the development of intelligence. The publication I found which title is Children and Videogames: Leisure Activities, Aggression, Social Integration, and School Performance told me that the image and video inside video game would stimulate multiple parts of children brain cortex which helped them improve the intelligence. The another reason is that while playing video games, children practice their coordinate skill between limbs and brains. (Schie and Wiegman 1175). In addition, as a method of conveying culture and information, there is no difference between ACG and newspaper or books. In that case, some good animation, and comic will make people thinking and have profound effect on people. 
Although some people think video games make people addict to in that case effect their study and even make people become "social awkward". But everything have a good aspect and bad aspects. There is a survey in a publication which title is Children and Videogames: Leisure Activities, Aggression, Social Integration, and School Performance said that there is no direct relationship between the screen and school performance, only the aggressive elements inside the video games and animation will affect teenagers' school performance. In that case, animation and video games will not have bad influence on teenagers if parents can help them choose the right comic and video games. About the social side, the person I interviewed <name> have a reply to that. He thought ACG helped people make friends because ACG enhanced the attractiveness of culture recognition. There were lots of Americans and Asians who became friends because some American ACG fans would be more proactive to make Asian fans. And generally speaking, if people can manage their time well, those bad side on ACG will not affect people's life. 
Shortly, after my researcher on the project that how ACG which is animation, comic and video games affects people's living style. I believe that ACG has the positive affects on people's life. As a hobby, it can help people relax and make their life colorful. In addition, it is good for the development of the intelligence of children and stimulate people's imagination. Although, ACG might have negative effect on people's social and academic aspect, if we can dispute the time appropriately, the advantages of it overweight the disadvantages. 
Work Cited 
van Schie, E. G. M. and O, Wiegman. Children and Videogames: Leisure Activities, 	Aggression, Social Integration, and School Performance. Journal of Applied 	Social Psychology,1997. Print. 
Iman Sharif and James D. Sargent. Association Between Television, Movie, and 	Video Game Exposure and School Performance. New York:PEDIATIRCS,2006. 	Print. 
Fleda Cooper Kinneman. The Comics and Their Appeal to the Youth of Today. Ubana: 	National Council of Teachers of Englis,1943. Print. 
