Draft#3 
April.27. 2016 
Argumentative Essay 
The argument of my topic is whether it is good or not for people to use the cosmetic. In my opinion, even though using the makeup can make people more beautiful, it can bring disadvantages for people using it. Cosmetics will hurt people's skin, especially for the people who are too young to stand the chemicals in it. Also, makeup may cause people to be allergic. In addition, people who use makeup may have a big chance to get skin cancer. Even though there are people who really agree that using cosmetics are benefits, for me, because of these three reasons, I think people should not use makeup every day or for a long time. 
First of all, the chemicals in the cosmetic are harmful to people's skin. As it is known to all, all cosmetics are made up of chemicals. Also, most of the cosmetics are used on our faces. The skin of our faces is really too weak to stand the harm from the chemicals. Winter (2009) states, "this belief went unchallenged until the 1960s, when the much heralded but unmarked miracle drug DMSO proved its ability to carry substances with it through the skin and into the body's tissues and bloodstream." For the people who use cosmetics, they all know that before going to the bed at night, they must remove the makeup from their faces. Because when they sleep with the makeup during the night, the chemicals will soak into their faces. And the skin of the face will be hurt. Ray (2014) believes, "All products! Eyelash Glue, Foundations, Lip products, Primers and Eye Products are all known to include harmful ingredients" (p.5). Using cosmetics can only make people beautiful for a short time, and cannot hold for a long time. And it will cause the skin aging. So it is not benefits to use cosmetics. 
Secondly, some makeup may cause people to be allergic. As we all know, some cosmetics have strong smells such as the perfumes. There are a myriad of people who are sensitive to the smells, even the smells of the flowers, let alone the smells of the chemicals. For example, I have heard that people who use the perfume and then feel choked. <name> one of my friends, says "Every time I use cosmetics, I will be allergic and spend a lot of time to clean my skin." Pitts (2003) states, "Dr. Eva, Millquist and colleagues from the university of Gothenburg reported that after inhaling perfume, people exhibited shortness of breath and also developed a cough." So it is not a good choice to use makeup for a long time. 
Finally, people who use makeup may be more likely to get the skin cancer than others who do not use it. Watson (2007) state, "The sun has been proven to be the worst cause of skin ageing and as we now know caused skin cancers. It is also responsible for skin pigmentation, growths and mole changes" Most of cosmetics maintain the antiseptic which is used to make the makeup stay from rot. People think that the antiseptic will react with the sunlight during the day. And it will change into something which is toxic. After a long time of using it, the skin will absorb a number of toxic things. The toxic thing will cause the skin cancer easily. Gabriel (2008) mentions, "Many chemicals we use daily will act slowly, triggering disease after decades of use." As we all know, skin cancer is not easy to cure. Avoiding using cosmetics will be a helpful way to avoid getting skin cancer. 
Some people think that it is helpful to use cosmetics. They think that it can make them look like more beautiful than they usually are. They use the cosmetics to make them have a bright and white skin color, and big eyes. Cosmetics can bring a huge change on their face. They like to change like that. When they use the cosmetics, they feel confident to go out on the street. It is true that makeup can change people to be more beautiful. But actually, people do not know the potential damage of using makeup. It will be harmful to our healthy and body. The disadvantages are more than the advantages when people using the cosmetics every day. 
All in all, using cosmetics is not a good choice for people. It will hurt our skin of face and cause the skin aging. People who use cosmetics can only hold the beauty for a short time, not a long time. Using makeup may cause the allergy to people. Most of the makeup will have strong smells. These smells may not suit for some people's body. Also, using makeup may cause the skin cancer. The chemicals in the cosmetic will react with the sunlight and change into something which is toxic. So it will be better not to use makeup on a daily basis. 
Reference 
Ruth, M.S. (2009) A Consumer's Dictionary of Cosmetic Ingredients, 7th Edition: Complete Information About the Harmful and Desirable Ingredients Found in Cosmetics and Cosmeceuticals. New York: Three River Press.54-55 
Melodie, R. (2014) Natural Beauty Journal, 5-6 
Rosie, W. (2007) Make-up. UK: New Holland Publishers.8-9 
Julie, G. (2008) The Green Beauty Guide: Your Essential Resource to Organic and Natural Skin care, hair care, makeup and fragrances. 3201 S.W. 15th Street: Health Communication, Inc.354-345 
Connie, P. (2003) GET A WHIFF OF THIS: Perfumes (fragrances) - the Invisible Chemical Poisons Bloomington, IN.28-29 
