P5D3 
May 4, 2015 
	Since 2004, there are more than 40 thousand of Chinese students choose go aboard, and this number still increased. Can you believe it? Because of the huge number of them, there are more and more International schools appeared. May be you will wondering what kind of different between international school and traditional Chinese schools, why students choose go to International school to prepare go aboard instead stay in traditional school? Through my online researches and interview my high school teacher, compare with my personal experience as well. I finally solve those questions. I think there are two important benefits for choosing international school. 
	I researched three online articles, the first one is focus on why there are more and more Chinese parents send their children to International school, second one is what kind of international school will be chosen? The last one is talk about the difference between International schools' system and normal traditional schools' system. I can find out that, international schools can help children more prepared to go to aboard, in other words is can help children become more independent. Most international schools have kindergarten, primary school, and high school. Parents can sent their children go to there when they were 3 years old. As all we know, little kids have good ability to study new languages or new things. So when they went to international school, their teacher teach them use English and Chinese, they can study both two languages very easy. But traditional Chinese schools children study Chinese all the time, until they are 10 years old even older, they finally can study English. But in this time, study new languages will be harder. International school give children a nature environment to study, the foreign teachers, foreign academic system both can help them get ready for going aboard. 
There is also another benefit in international schools that is focusing on students' interests. If you go to Chinese normal school, you will find out all the studies are about academic. Especially before you take exam, you have plenty much of papers to write without rest times. I think most students are really not enjoying what they study. However, international system schools offer us the opportunities to choose what we are interested on. I think this is because we don't need to worry about the pressure come from college entrance examination, and compare normal students we had lots of free time to study music, art, sports and dance so on. I do love painting; I always want to learn it professional instead imitate form the Internet by myself, but I never have a chance on account of my previous schools. After I attended boarding system school, I finally got an occasion to realize it. I studied watercolor, sketch, and oil painting. Those helped me have another option in the future. 
Thus, go to an international school can let your teacher and you have a real interactive activity. Also international schools give you more than one choose, which means you can choose what you want to focus in the future. 
