The tea ceremony 
	The importance of tea to the ordinary people has been recorded in the famous Tea Classics: "nowadays in Guanxi, Shandong, people in every village enjoy tea and cannot live a day without it." The tea ceremony is a lifestyle through the media of tea, recognized as a way to self-cultivate. By making tea, smelling tea, drinking tea and appreciating tea, the tea ceremony helps us enhance friendship with others, purifying our spirit and learning the etiquette. 
	The tea ceremony is a very beneficial ceremony where people can achieve a peaceful state of mind, which has a resonance with the eastern philosophy that promotes the idea of peace and wisdom. The spirit of the tea ceremony is the core and soul of the tea culture. Through the tea ceremony we present the etiquette, the virtue, the artistic ambience and the aesthetic view. 
	The etiquette of the tea ceremony mainly includes five aspects: dressing, haircut, hand shape, sitting and the content of the conversation, all of which will be discussed as follows. First is the dress. The tea maker is required to dress appropriately, meaning he should avoid dressing weird outfit like hip-hop, or she should avoid dressing in colors that are too bright or clothes that expose too much body. In a word, no matter the tea maker is male or female, he or she should dress formally to match the solemn environment of the tea ceremony. Second is the haircut. In principle it should fit with the tea maker's face and temperament, giving people a clean and comforting feeling. Regardless of the length, the tea maker's hair needs to be sorted before the performance according to the requirement. Third is a beautiful hand shape. Hands are extremely important for tea ceremony performers. They need to have a pair of slim and tender hands, which need appropriate cleaning, caring and protection. Fourth is the sitting. The tea maker should sit on the middle of the chair with the body relaxed, keeping the body straight and stable. In the meanwhile he or she should keep the legs close to each other and avoid keeping them opening widely or putting one over the other and shaking them. Other than legs, his or her eyes should keep looking horizontally instead of looking up or down. If the tea maker is female, she can hold her palms together between her legs with one facing up and the other facing down, while the male tea maker can put his hands on his laps with both facing down. Fifth and the final one is appropriate conversations. When having a tea ceremony and the host and guests meet, the tea maker should elegantly introduce himself or herself, most commonly like: "Greetings everyone! My name is John and it's a pleasure to serve you all today. Tell me if you need anything." Before the tea maker starts to make tea, he or she should introduce the name of the kind of tea that's being served, as well as the cultural background, place of origin, qualities and characteristics. Yet the introduction should be kept simple and brief with correct use of words to avoid ruining the ambience. During the process of making tea, each procedure should come with one sentence or two of explanation, especially for those that have special meanings. After finishing making the tea, if the guests feel like some more while the tea maker has to leave for a moment, he or she could ask the guests, "Could you please excuse me for a moment?" to show respect for the guests. These important and necessary aspects of the tea ceremony are what the tea maker must achieve in order to present a enjoyable tea ceremony. 
	Those are the rules for the tea maker, while there are also some requirements regarding the manners of the host. To start with, the timing is important. The host should keep the tea ceremony no longer than 2 hours, after which the guests might have something else to do. And during the tea ceremony the host is supposed to serve the guests with some food and some towels to clean their hands afterwards. Also after eating oily food the host should serve the guests with some water for oral cleaning before they start drinking tea again. Not surprisingly, the order of offering tea matters a lot. It shows the appropriate etiquette of the host as he or she needs to offer tea to the guests according to their age and seniority. For the guests the rule is quite simple, just pay attention when the host is pouring tea and to hold the cup to express his or her gratitude and to never just chat with other guests. 
	Other than the rules and manners, the inside spirit of the tea ceremony also shares great importance, which has six key elements: people, tea, water, tea sets, environment and art. 
	The beauty of people: humans are the most spiritual among all the creatures and the core of the society. People are the fundamental and essential part of the tea ceremony, and also the most beautiful part. The beauty of people comes in two ways. One is as a natural creature the beauty of the look, and the other is as a social creature the inner beauty of the mind, both of which play important roles in the tea ceremony. 
	The beauty of tea: besides a beautiful name of the kind of tea, the color, fragrance, smell and shape of tea all comprise the amazing beauty of tea. 
	The beauty of water: according to Lu Yu from the Tang Dynasty in his Tea Classics, "the mountain water is the best, the river water the medium, the well water the inferior." Another tea expert Zhang Dafu mentioned in his Meihua Caotang Bitan, "with medium tealeaves and premium water comes premium tea, while with premium tealeaves and medium water only comes medium tea." These tea masters both concluded that water is a very important factor in the tea ceremony. Great enjoyment only comes with high quality water. 
	The beauty of tea sets: influenced by the idea from ancient China that great food containers of food are more important than great food, we Chinese people have always taken the beauty of tea sets very seriously. Also by Lu Yu, there were 24 different and complete kinds of tea sets mentioned in his Tea Classics. Nowadays there are over a thousand kinds of tealeaves, while there are even more kinds of tea sets. 
	The beauty of the environment: it specifies that the environment should be bright and clean, the decoration should be simple yet elegant, the ambience should be warm to make people feel comfortable. 
	The beauty of the art: it mainly includes the spiritual beauty of the tea ceremony planning and the charm of the tea ceremony performance. 
	In order for the tea ceremony to achieve its ultimate purpose, to bring people the joy of spiritual perception, these six aspects of beauty need to all come together. There's a lot more about the tea ceremony than what has been discussed in this paper. But from this paper we can already see that tea ceremony is more than just drinking tea. It's not an exaggeration to call it an art. The tea ceremony is just a priceless cultural treasure waiting to be discovered. 
