Argument essay 
Purdue University 
(Draft 1) 
Argument essay 
	The world is becoming more and more competitive and everyone seems so busy doing their own things. Everyday we have so many tasks to accomplish and there are so many things that distract us from study or work . However, not many people can finish all of them on time and tended to move to the next day to get over them. As a result, people get into the condition of delaying everyday's work and are gradually getting accustomed to it which leads to failure. It's because they are being put in a tight spot that they lack time management skills. With good time management skills, they can perfectly complete all the tasks and be more competitive in the world. It's obvious that time management is an indispensable factor for success. 
	First of all, time management helps to build a sufficient day. Time management serves as an assistant to help plan the whole day and get a clear outline of what to do and when to do which is really important for whole day success. Raven(2010)indicates that time management helps people to find priorities and be more productive. With a good time management, people can get a list of things needed to do and know the priorities so that they are not going to miss the most important thing. Also, doing the priorities can help people to have a better mood and be in a suitable pace finishing all the things left. However, if people lack the skill, they will totally have no idea of when to do the things, which leads to a mess and a disorder day with a bad arrangement . What's more, they may miss the opportunity to do the most important thing which may affect a lot! 
	Since time management serves as an efficient tool to improve efficiency, it helps a lot in the academic field. Time management skill is positively related to the academic performance and behaviors. Students who master a perfect management skill is more likely to enjoy a high GPA. With a clear mind of the things going to do, students can get a good timeline and can utilize the best of the time which results in their high GPA. According to the writers, 76 questionnaire items are created by them to research on the college students and found out the result that students with a poor GPA are bad at time management compared to those with a high GPA. Students who often hurry to finish the homework or project is poorer than those students allocate their time well and complete all the work before the scheduled time . For example, as a senior and the director of PUCSSA, Mushi made a good time management plan to keep his success. He would think over and have a detailed plan before the day. What's more, the plan he made is flexible to finish all the things. Plans he made consider many different factors including transportation and conflicts. The reason why he enjoyed such a high GPA in the four years serving as a director and TA at the same time was all because his high efficiency caused by the good time management skills. As Mushi said," Time management helps me save a lot of time and every time I finish all the things as scheduled, I feel a great sense of accomplishment.I really appreciate the skill and I'm definitely going to practice it in my career life."Moreover, he thought the reasons for some students who have a low GPA are the bad time management skills because some of his friends spend most of the day playing while hurrying several hours before the time that is due. 
	Time management is not only important in study field but also very important for the career development. time management is the most important factor when taking about the completion of the tasks. Researchers(2010) conducted an experiment on employees to investigate how the work goals are completed. They got the result that "task completion is more related to time management than overall performance."Employees are required to accomplish a lot of tasks during the workday and it's really important for them to follow up all the tasks required. At this time, time management plays a crucial rule in helping people to accomplish them in a good sequence. With a good time management, they can clarify the best time to do each thing and whether to do them at the same time to pursue a high efficiency and make the best use of time. Time is definitely saved and high efficiency is enjoyed. 
	According to the three evidences I list above, it shows that it's true that time management is important for the daily completion of work and the efficiency. However, there's also a few students around us achieving good marks but spending their day playing games which shows that they don't arrange their time well and have a poor time management. Those persons do exist because they may have high IQ and may have already learnt them before so they don't take time reviewing the material. However, time management is a really essential skill to master because it helps to set up a more efficient day and easier to achieve success. 
	All in all, time management is an indispensable factor to success while most students and employees lack the skills to manage time efficiently. Time management helps to improve the efficiency and enjoy a better day with a clear list of things going to do which is the strong base of success. People should be more aware of the benefits of good time management skills. Ways to improve it include making a excellent plan ahead counting in all the possible affecting factors and practice it as scheduled. Insist in it day by day and overcome all the laziness and the intention to delay. Success will finally knock at the door. 
