Paper #5 
Draft #3 
April 28, 2016 
Argumentative assignment 
	Having to live in a competitive and hectic society, most people are overwhelmed with their works. Therefore, they can easily be stressed. The important point here is that most people have a misconception about stress. Generally, stress makes them think negatively because people have believed stress is detrimental to them. There are some people who are willing to overcome their stress, but few people try to use their stress to improve their lives. However, recent researches have shown that stress could be beneficial for people. The fact above presented would help their lives to be more lively and efficiently. Therefore, it is a misunderstanding that stress is a negative emotion, but it is a positive factor which can be beneficial for our health, creativities, and lifestyles. 
	The first reason why stress is good for people is because stress has positive effects on our health. Immune system could be enhanced by the moderate level of stress and short-term stress helps our bodies recover faster than without it. According to Dhabhar (2012), short-term stress can be good for our immune systems. To be specific, various stress hormones released when a person stressed out are involved in immune cell distribution in the body. This process promotes our immune system to strengthen in the vaccination, wound healing and infection. From the perspective of boosting recovery for health, stress also affects positively on our health. Patricia (2009) claimed that acute stress makes immune response occurs at the site of surgery so that the induced immune response promotes tissue to proliferate following surgery. As a result, I believe stress is beneficial for us because of improving our health. 
	Another reason is that stress plays an important role in being alert and creative. Not only does stress encourage the ability in one's work, but it also makes us improve our memories. According to Ven Katesh and Ram (2015), the moderate level of stress can cause employees to be more productive and effective than too much or too less level of stress. This fact already was proven through Inverted-U model which was experimented by psychologists, Rober Yerkes and John Dodson in 1908. In terms of improving memory, Kirby (2013) suggested that acute stress induces a specific cell related to the memory to proliferate so that would help to improve the ability of memory through an experiment with rats having acute stresses. With appropriate amount of stress, we can perform our works efficiently with good results and improve our memories. In this respect, stress does not have negative effects but has affirmative effects on us. 
	Last, stress gives us opportunities to improve the quality of our lives. Ashok and Roshan (2010) assert that our lives without stress would be dull, monotonous and spiritless. Stress provides challenges and opportunities to our lives so that we can experience a sense of frustration and achievement, and learn some lessons. People can get better lives through these experiences. Furthermore, Mc Gonigal (2013) asserts that we will become more social when experiencing a stressful event. She also asserted that the hormone called oxytocin, which is released when we get stressed out, stimulates us to practice prosocial behaviors and do more social contacts and supports. We can be more thoughtful about others and develop our empathy after practicing prosocial behaviors. Therefore, stress is advantageous for us in that stress forces us to get out of our comfort zones and in turn enrich our lives. Also, by encouraging us to participate in more social activities, stress makes us more considerate of others. 
In a sense, the fact that excessive stress causes some illnesses from common cold to cardiovascular disease is true. However, Mc Gonigal (2015) suggests that a mixture of stress and the misconception about stress' effects is actually hurting people more than what stress actually does. Mc Gonigal (2015) cites specific statistics to support her claim. According to statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the belief that stress is harmful cause of death ranked highly than the skin cancer, HIV/AIDS, and homicide. Therefore, the fact stress is harmful for us was not solely true. 
In conclusion, I agree with that stress can be beneficial for us. Not only does stress enable our immune systems to be strong, but it also helps us to be more alert so that we can get better results of works than without stress. We can live better lives by engaging in prosocial behaviors and learning lessons from challenges and opportunities which are caused by stress. It is important to clear up the misconception about stress that bothers us all the time. So that we can use stress as an advantageous factor rather than a disadvantageous one, and make use of stress to better serve ourselves and improve our lives. 
Reference 
Ashok, K., & Roshan, L. (2010, Febuary). Managing Occupational Stress: A Mantra for Success. Retrieved from http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1714100&download=yes 
Dhabhar, FS., Malarkey, WB., Neri, E. & Mc Ewen, BS. (2012). Stress-induced redistribution of immune cells-from barracks to boulevards to battlefields: a table of three hormones-Curt Richert Award winner. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 37(9). 1345-1368. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3412918/ 
Mc Gonigal, K. (2013, June). How to make stress your friend. Retrieved from http://www.ted.com/talks/kelly_mcgonigal_how_to_make_stress_your_friend 
Mc Gonigal, K. (2015, June). Forget What You've Heard About Stress. As It Turns Out, It's Actually Good for You. Retrieved from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/forget-what-youve-heard-stress-turns-out-its-actually-kelly-mcgonigal 
Patricia, R. et al. (2009, December). Surgical Stress-Induced Immune Cell Redistribution Profiles Predict Short-Term and Long-Term Postsurgical Recovery. J bone Joint Surg Am. 91(12). 2783-2794. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2780920/ 
Ven Katesh, B., & Ram, N. (2015, September). EUSTRESS : A Unique Dimension To Stress Management. Voice of Research. 4(2). 26-29. Retrieved from http://www.voiceofresearch.org/doc/Sep-2015/Sep-2015_10.pdf 
1 
