Personality and Interaction is Important for Roommates' Relationship 
Purdue University 
College life can be a difficult time for new students. Freshmen go through psychological changes during the first few days of their college life. Some students get homesick while others suffer from depression . Due to this, a student requires support from his or her social circles. The relationship a student has with his or her roommate is of utmost importance. Some would say that sharing the same culture is the most important for roommate's relationship since the same background would help people to find common trait with others. However, we should notice that personality and interaction are central in creating roommate relationships between individuals, regardless of their nationalities and race. 
Similarity in personality will help people gain satisfaction about roommate's relationship. The personalities of two college students who are sharing a room can determine the type of relationship that they will have with each other. When individuals have similar personalities, then they are able to share the same characteristics. As a result, these two individuals will be able to understand each other. Similarities in roommates' interpersonal adequacy were more likely to be satisfied with their relationship and have a more enduring relationship (Carli, Ganley, and Pierce-Otay 1995)(p.211) 
The importance of similarity in personality also can be illustrate well by my interview with <name>, as the resident assistant of dormitory. <name> indicated that when sharing similar personalities, people are more likely to share same habits. In the other word, people are less likely to have conflict with others in their daily life due to similar personalities. "when two roommates sharing common stuff with each other, such as fridge, microwave, and common bathroom, the similarities in personalities would help them find a effective way to negotiate and pass over these problems". Otherwise, different personality between two roommates will, definitely, require them spend more time and energy to reach consensus. 
The personalities of individuals are not the only factors that influence the longevity and strength of the relationship between roommates. The interaction between the individuals involved also plays an important part in shaping the relationship between roommates. according to Waldo, 1984; Waldo & Fuhriman, when room- mates are willing to verbalize their thoughts and feelings about each other, they tend to be more satisfied with their relationships-- increased communication and understanding between roommates allows individuals to express their feelings and thoughts for each other in a verbal manner.(p.212) As a result, these individuals are able to attain a higher level of satisfaction in their relationship with each other. 
Besides, in the case of a conflict, the type of interaction between the individuals involved will determine the manner in which this conflict becomes resolved. In addition, resolving conflicts also helps the parties involved to develop their conflict resolution skills (Marek, Wanzer and Knapp, 2004)(p.213). That is to say, individuals with a positive type of interaction are more likely to develop good communication strategies and patterns, which plays a key role when roommates are bound to interact with each other once they start living together. During the daily life staying with roommates, people are inevitably in conflict with others in various ways. Thus, as the friendship between these individuals develops, they develop a need to communicate. As a result, the relationship between roommates grows stronger since the interaction is the most effective way to resolve conflict. 
Interaction will help people exchange more intimate information so that strengthen their relationship. When an individual is perceived to possess positive attributes, then he or she can establish a positive relationship with roommates. Self-disclosing is not the only way through which a roommate can learn about his or her roommate. When roommates interact by engaging in social activities, they are able to learn more about each other. This allows them to enhance the perceptions they have of each other. Their interaction allows them to share important and sensitive information with each other (Wong and Bond, 1999). (p.202). This in turn allows them to develop a stronger relationship with each other. 
Interaction between roommates also has the potential of eliminating prejudices, leading to the establishment of stronger social bonds roommates and their social circles. Continued interactions between roommates can lead to the transference of particular types of tolerance from one individual to another (Shook and Fazio, 2011)(p.1). For instance, an individual with a roommate who belongs to a separate racial background may develop a tolerance for that particular racial group through continued interaction with his roommate. This in turn allows him or her to interact well with his roommate and individuals from the same race who belong to his roommate's social circles. Eventually, the roommate relationship grows stronger and attains more meaning. 
To sum up, I think Personality and interaction are central to creating roommate relationship between individuals. Similar personalities allow individuals to resolve conflicts more easily leading to the establishment of a strong relationship. Subsequent interaction also allows roommates to attain self-disclosure and tolerance which serves to boost satisfaction in the relationship as well as increase the relationship's strength. 
