P5D3 
April 23, 2015 
Calling Family Cannot Cope With Homesickness 
International students meet multiple challenges when they study abroad, such as foreign language, homesickness and illness. Compared with other challenges, homesickness is one of the main topics that psychologists focus on. According to its causes, such as people lack of spiritual support, homesickness researchers list multiple strategies to cope with international students' homesickness. Among these various methods, I argue that international students should reduce the times of calling family in order to effectively deal with negative feelings of homesickness. 
	International students should call home less often because communicating with family frequently can stimulate and amplify students' homesickness. Compared with writing, talking is more likely to remind students of home background. When a student hears parents saying they miss him/her, he/she may generate similar feeling. CNN reporter Derrick Ho (2010) pointed out that "phone calls can backfire." In Ho's article, psychologist Chris Thurber (2010) emphasized that when parents notice children crying or children hear parents crying, homesickness will be exacerbated (Ho, 2010). Furthermore, when students call parents, students not only hear their parents' voice, but also the sounds near parents, which can also impact students' feelings. For example, I am an international student from China. When I called my family during the Spring Festival in China, I could clearly hear the loud sounds of firecrackers. Loneliness generated in my mind immediately, and it seemed that my family forgot me. 
	Talking with family lets students not only feel isolated from family, but also feel isolated from new society. Thus, the second reason is that calling family frequently cannot develop international students' ability of enlarging new social network. Main homesickness reasons are international students are unable to adjust to novel place and they lack of mental support. Having several friends from different countries is favorable for students to get out of homesickness troubles. However, spending too much time with family is disadvantageous for students to find friends, for students will have less time to take activities outside. Watt and Badger (2010) wrote that the stronger a person feels homesickness, the more the person communicates with family (16.4%). The relationship between homesickness and phone calls home is positive which shows that the act of phone calls can aggravate homesickness (P. 335-350). For instance, my first month after coming to America, I spent whole night talking with my mother through Internet. At first, I felt pretty well, for I was accompanied with my mom; however, I gradually found out my classmates were aggregated together and had dinners many times. I deeply thought I was isolated, for I had no friends. It was true that this increases my homesickness. In contrast, in this year, I altered my schedule of talking with parents. At beginning of the action, it was hard to me, but I quickly adjusted university life: I took more club activities where I met like-minded people. 
	Additionally, the cultural differences, which largely are reflected in language, can cause international students' homesickness. Calling family frequently reduces international students' chances of learning English, for they stay in a native language environment. As we all know, if international students master English, they will have motivation and confidence in studying and chatting with foreign students. Therefore, their homesickness will be coped with. For example, I have a friend, who calls her family every two weeks. She told me that without communicating with her parents, she had more time to listen to presentation, such as TED, which greatly improved her English speaking. 
	My opponents state that students should communicate with family frequently, for it creates a homelike atmosphere. I agree that while speaking with family, students feel that parents are standing next to them. However, there are various methods to create a homelike atmosphere. For example, texting and sending email to family can also achieve the same effect. By texting, parents and children are more likely to express feelings because sometimes people are shy to say something. In addition, when using texting, phones save the messages, so when students miss home, they can review the message as soon as possible. As for sending email, it can not only save the messages as well, but also reduce the overall cost of communication. 
	In conclusion, I believe that calling family frequently blocks the pathway of dealing with homesickness by increasing students' homesickness, and by decreasing opportunities to make friends and learn English. If students decrease the number of times they call their family, they will have more friends and be independent. With the help of texting and sending email, students can create a homelike atmosphere without calling home as frequently. Eventually, students will not be interrupted by homesickness and then pay more attention to studying. 
Reference 
Ho, D. (2010, August 16). Homesickness isn't really about 'home'. Retrieved from CNN: http://www.cnn.com/2010/HEALTH/08/16/homesickness.not.about.home/ 
Watt, S. E., & Badger, A. J. (2009). Effects of Social Belonging on Homesickness: An Application of the Belongingness Hypothesis. Personalityand Social Psychology Bulletin, 516-530. 
3 
Calling Family Cannot Cope With Homesickness 
