ENGL10600I 
Diverse Alternatives Arise from Two-child Policy 
In recent months, two-child policy has been a popular topic of discussion in China. When in the subway, I usually heard people said that two-child policy came into effect, and they could have two lovely children. In my view, two-child policy will be a benefit policy for single children, but it will not be a feasible policy to solve social problem China have confronted now. At the present time, plenty of people believe that two-child policy will be an effective policy to fix China's aging workforce and shrinking population. However, on the basis of what l have learned, two-child policy will be only able to slightly alleviate the social issues in a short term. 
Many people believe that two-child policy can permanently counter the aging problem and shrinking population in China because people can have two children. In the case, China will have higher birth rate and more workforce. However, according to the estimated data on population trends in China 2016, Zhao & Gao pointed about that China's population would continue to grow until 2024 and then gradually decline. This means the aging problem and lack of workforce will reoccur 
Zhao & Gao, 2014 
after 2024. There are three reasons to explain that phenomenon and prove that two-child policy will not be an effective policy to resolve aging workforce and shrinking population. First of all, owing to the meteoric development of biology and medical, people are going to have further extension of life span Zhao & Gao, 2014, p. 665. The lower death rate means the elderly population in total population won't decrease. China will still be the ageing society. Secondly, at the presents, feminism is a popular topic around the world. Women have higher social status and have more freedom to choose whether or not to born children. Some of female believe that if they have two children, it will have impact on career development. Last of all, Since the birth of children, parents need to provide them with milk powder, diapers and abundant nutritious food. Even though tuitions of public schools in China are cheap, parents need to pay heavy costs for remedial classes which are not affordable for low-class families. The expensive costs will cause many parents don't have ability to have two children. A survey shows that many Chinese parents intend to have one children instead of two children because of financial burdens. Stuart Gietel Basten, 2016. In conclusion, two-child policy will not be a feasible policy to fix aging workforce and shrinking population. 
Two-child policy will change single children' personality and daily life. Since l were a child, l wanted to have siblings who can share with me their happiness and sorrow. Whenever l saw most of the foreign children have siblings, l was really envious of them. Whenever when l faced with many complex math problems, l thought it would be nice if l had a smart brother or sister. Whenever l felt afraid after l watched horror movies, l expected to have a sibling who can accompany me and give me comfort. Having siblings will change the personality of single children. Nowadays, most of the Chinese children just think about themselves, even not respect other's advices. Having siblings can help them to be more cooperative and generous instead of being egocentric and withdrawn. Furthermore, when single children' parents and grandparents get older or get serious illness, no one can help them to take care with their relatives. They need to ask for a long break which might influence their career development. If they have siblings, they will not become too exhausted and have less financial burden in medical fees and treatment fees. Fortunately, two-child policy improve single children' personality and daily life. 
To summarize, people should be convinced that two-child policy will not counter the aging workforce and shrinking population, due to the faster development of medical and biology, the higher social status of female and the expensive costs of having children. Thus, l positively believe that the aging workforce and shrinking population will not be fixed in a long term. Importantly, two-child policy is beneficial to single children. Singe children will become more persist and less selfish, and having siblings can help them take care with their parents and grandparents which reduce their mental and financial pressure. Two-child policy will be a helpful policy for single children, but not for society. 
