Draft# 1 
Nov. 18, 2015 
Should Laptops Replace Tablets 
According to tendency of technological development and people's preference, I believe laptops will replace tablets. This is because laptops with high performance are more practical and improved constantly at the same time. They have much more potential value than tablets. Moreover, the sale of tablets does not look optimistic. 
In addition, tablets were invented by experiencing a long process, but the sale of them did not look optimistic. Sharples, M., and Beale, R made a technique review in 2003. Pen tablet computers were come up by Kay and Goldberg in 1970. And they became realistic in 1990. Microsoft invented pen tablet computers with sensitive color screen, stylus, docking stations, and infrared keyboards. They were used widely. In 2002, Microsoft improved them: an active digitizer instead of a resistive(touch) digitizer, legacy-free, rotating the display between landscape and portrait without rebooting, restarting in less than 2 seconds, working for 72 hours, automatically saving on battery exhaustion, and permitting removal from a dock. New operating system offered lots of more specific features. And then a number of manufactures began to produce their own tablet computers with distinct characteristics. Sale targets were teachers and students in education field. However, Wakabayashi, D., & Ovide, S. researched i Pad in 2014. i Pad was born in 2010. After i Pad appeared on the market, the question came so quickly. Sale of i Pad was always low. And then experts in Apple Company found it was not necessary. People just wanted it, and people who wanted it had already had it. Moreover, with size of smartphones' screen increasing and laptops' screen reducing, sale of i Phone and Mac rose rapidly while sale of i Pad exacerbated to fall off. For fixing this, firm IDC changed outlook and invented new tablets. Indeed, this way increased their sale but had little effects. Now, a number of countries did not purchase enough tablets to compensate those tablets which had been produced. Hence, people spent a lot of time and money to invent tablets, but their sales were disappointing. 
Admittedly, tablets are much more portable than laptops and people have already known how to upgrade them. There is <name>'s experience. <name> had a 17-inche laptop and an 11-inche professional tablet. He prefers carrying his tablet everywhere, especially to classes and meetings. Because the tablet is lighter and smaller than his laptop, he can carry it for the whole day without flagging. Besides, it has a professional pen which can sense 1024 levels pressure. With the higher number, the pen can store handwriting more accuracy. Whatever he writes down, it will record as he writes on the paper. In classes, he always takes notes by his tablet instead of paper. Besides, <name> and Mr. Jing explained direction of tablets' improvement. <name> said, people need to invent a much more powerful CPU with a very low TDP (Thermal Design Power) and seek for a new type battery to strengthen the device's running time." In terms of laptops, tablets have much lower performance, smaller display, and inferior acoustics, which are even worse for eyes. Moreover, Mr. Jing referred to other aspects. More practical accessories need to be produced, like portable keyboards and styluses. Besides, more websites and apps have their distinguished tablets' version to be suitable for touch-operation, especially some office softwares, like Office of tablets' version. These advanced office apps can make up the shortage of tablets. Thus, tablets are more convenient than laptops and they are upgrade directly. 
At last, nowadays, a new type of a laptop, Ultrabook, is extremely prevalent. It is light and portable as tablets and as powerful as traditional laptops. Also, lots of Ultrabooks can transform tablets. Some can split into two parts, the touch screen and the keyboard. Others can flip the touch screens to face up. In fact, he has an Ultrabook which can flip touch screen, and he thinks that it is really beneficial in some conditions. Mr. Hu also mentioned the 2-in-1 device whose screen can dismantling from the keyboard when people want to use it as a tablet, or when people prefer the high performance, they can just insert the screen part to the keyboard to make it become a full functional laptop. I think this is a big breakthrough. Ultrabook combines both advantages of tablets and laptops. It probably will overtake both tablets and laptops. 
Although tablets are much more portable than laptops, laptops have higher performance and more people's preference, doing most tasks which tablets can do. Tablets were popular ever, just because people wanted to purchase them not really needed them. And then there might be a new type of device, Ultrabook, replacing tablets as well as laptops in the future, with advanced technology. It combines both benefits of tablets and laptops. 
Reference 
Sharples, M., & Beale, R. (2003). A technical review of mobile computational devices. Journal of computer Assisted Learning, 19, 392-395. 
Kasulaitis, B.V. et al. (2015). Evolving materials, attributes, and functionality in consumer electronics: Case study of laptop computers. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 1-10. 
(2014). Are Tablet Computers a Passing Fad? Wall Street Journal. B.1. 
