11/20/2015
A two-sided sword
In these years, the rising tide of Syrian Refugees is a serious problem in Europe. Millions of people are influenced in different ways. The sudden rush of these refugees disrupts the previously peaceful Western world. Some public opinions claim that these refugees have led developed countries such as Germany to spend a great amount of money and resources in order to help.
Since the economic depression in 2008, the economy in Western Europe was going down slowly. Many companies were on the edge of bankruptcy. As the Syrian refugees rushed to Germany, a lot of business chances follow by the increasing number of population. Therefore, I believe accepting refugees can help European countries like Germany in many ways, especially in economic. *
First of all, from apparently look, it is not worthy to accept a great amount of refugees; however, Germany is doing a good preparation for the future. Germany has an aging population and it is one of the lowest birthrates in the world. Therefore, if they don't have enough labor force, their economic will not recover. After the long time, the shortage in labor market will lead the society to collapsed. The industry in Germany has cautiously welcomed the refugees, seeing them as a potential boon Luke, 2015, para5. In August, the government of Germany announced that by the end of 2015, Germany expects at least 800,000 asylum applications, and the total might reach nearly 1 million in the next year.
Also, accepting more refugees can help Germany play an exemplary role in the international society. After terrorists attacked the Paris on November 13th in 2015, many governments refused to accept refugees from Syria. More than half of the governors in the United States opposed letting Syrian refugees into the States Fantz, 2015, para1. Despite the terrible crimes that the terrorists committed, the Syrian refugees are innocent. They left their countries because they have no other choice. The civil war made their hometown become a hell. For humanity, it is our responsibility to save their lives.
Although Germany is accepting Syrian refugees, some scholars claim that the influx of refugees result in a higher unemployment rate because the unemployed rate was really high before these refugees came. However, this prediction is not completely correct. A big portion of unemployed people do not accept low-paid jobs. The influx of Syrian refugees might be able to fulfill the demand in labor market of the factories and restaurants. Labor force is the primary productive force. It is no doubt that fulfilling laboring market is a great chance for Germany recover from the long-lasting aftermath of economic depression.
Based on the current situation, accepting Syrian refugees is a two-sided sword. It can not only help these poor people from war but also stimulate the economy in Germany. Some might accuse Germany that it provides aids for its own selfish interest, but for humanity duty to receive a growing number of refugees and provide good treatments to them is a way to reflect what this country did is a lofty behavior.
Reference
Fantz, A. 2015, November 19. More than half the nation's governors say Syrian refugees not welcome. Retrieved November 20, 2015, from http://www.cnn.com/2015/11/16/world/paris-attacks-syrian-refugees-backlash/
Llana, S. 2015, September 14. Why Is Germany Embracing Refugees? It's Not Simply Post-Nazi Guilt. The Christian Science Monitor.
Harding, L. 2015, September 12. How much longer can Germany keep its doors open to refugees? Retrieved November 22, 2015, from http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/sep/13/how-much-longer-can-germany-keep-can-their-doors-to-refugees
LI		2
