			A good way for women to find out what they want for their life 
	There is a very common question that asks people about what do they like to do or what are they interested in. Many of them would answer they like travel. As we all know, travel is definitely a good way to tough the world and experience something different from your daily life. Travel is already been a wonderful thing, however solo travel is even better. As some surveys found out most people go solo travel are either women or young people. In order to helping women better understand who they are and what they want to do, it should be necessary for them to travel alone. 
Solo travel is a good way for women to deeply understand that they are as powerful as men and they have ability to protect themselves. Most of people including women believe women are effeminate and they need protection from other people and the society. I've had a solo travel this summer, and some of my friends and relatives doubt that I can't finish whole travel by myself. They pointed out that it is very dangerous for a young girl to travel alone. They are true in some ways, because I did experience some potential risks. But the fact is I come back home with safety and self-confidence that I am strong enough to protect myself. During the Interview with Professor Ksenia Kirillova, she mentioned that travel alone is very scary for women since they have nobody to rely on except themselves and the scare is come from sense of helplessness. However, when they overcome the scare, they would start to trust themselves. I also want to state this is one of the main reasons that women should go for solo travel. Not only women can prove their ability to others, but also they can gain satisfaction from solo travel. In other words, women are scared during their solo travel, but one reason they go solo travel is to over come the scare. 
Getting to know more people will change person's opinion towards his or her life. Whereas, being friends with other people who are from different life cycles shouldn't be an easy thing, solo travel provides a good chance for women to make more friends from different societies and other countries. Recent years in China, when some women plan to have solo travel to places like Tibet, they usually find some partners online before their travel or during the way. Because solo travelers will face health risks and dangerous outside for some destinations like Tibet. Getting to know more people and hang out with them would make travel more secure. One thing needs to be clear here is that solo traveler means a person arrived in a destination alone, but it doesn't means they have to travel on their own for the whole trip. It seems people who are alone will easier to attract others takes the initiative stat the conversation. During women's daily life, they might ask not talk with some strangers. But this rule is not fit for solo travel. Women should keep an open mind to others and being friends with someone they don't know before would add some interesting material to their solo travel. In addition, just they have to make sure their personal safety. 
Solo travel can help women find back their career objectives and life objectives based on what they really want and what they need. In the modern, people have fast pace of life and some of women just lost their original dream during day and day life. Some people are living in other people's eyes, but not live for their own. They do need a brand new start for their life and the only thing they need is stimulus. Solo travel could be that stimulus. A research paper about female solo travelers, which were written by Chu-Yin Chiang and Giri Jogaratnam mentioned that 'Escape' is one of main motivations for women who choose travel alone. They want to get away from pressures and responsibilities. That means they are tired with current life.(will work more on it.) 
Some people mentioned safety issue should be a reason to stop women from solo travel, since lots of news reported that women were killed or raped during their solo travel. The security incident is definitely a problem, however it can be prevent in advance and under travelers' control. Before a solo travel, it is necessary to do the information searching about the safety index of destination online in order to decide whether it is a suitable place for women to travel alone or not. For example, countries like India are definitely not a safe place for women to travel alone since the high rate of rape. (more work on it) 
People are saying a woman is a book and I believe women as writer and first reader to the book of women, they should better understand themselves. Solo travel provides a good opportunity for them to learn about what kind of person that they want to be and what kind of life they want to own for rest of their life. And safety issue is a problem for female solo travelers and it is also not a problem if they well prepared. An intelligent woman shouldn't always complain about their unsuccessful life. Life needs courage and action to make dream come true. And one time solo travel would be a new starting point for women who want change for their life. Never wait for later days, if you want, just do it. 
