Should the Chinese government keep the Internet Censorship? 
In main land China, most of the citizens don't have the access to worldwide popular social network such as You Tube, Facebook and twitter, etc, because there is an Internet censorship applied in the country and the information that government doesn't want citizens to see will be filtered when they try to search it on browsers. That means people can't see those websites by typing the addresses in the search engine. Why does China block the path for people to better communicate with the world? For most of the time, Chinese government only vaguely explained the reason that currently Internet is full of increasing security threats, which is actually the problem every country is facing, but why does only China apply this Internet censorship? According to a government transcript released in the fall of 2014, Lu Wei, director of China's state Internet Information Office, said that "foreign Internet companies entering China must at the base level accord to Chinese laws and regulations (Zucchi, par 1). Since 2003 when President Hu Jintao came to power, Chinses Government authorities have implemented many methods to control and suppress political and religious speech on the Internet (D.D'Jaen', par.1). Frankly speaking, if Chinese users try to search for the word "persecution", "Tibetan independence" or "democracy movements", a blank screen that says "page cannot be displayed" will come out. However, in the modern information age, is there any necessity to keep this old school communist bureaucratic way to tame the Internet? If it is, then what is the meaning of maintaining the censorship? 
There is a large amount of online articles that analyze the reason and necessity of censorship policy in China. The articles are from famous, credible research paper websites sponsored by prestigious universities such as Purdue and John Hopkins. These websites include Journal of Democracy, which ranks among the most cited and the most influential of social sciences journals. I find some online articles that synthesize a set of reasons from people who insist Internet censorship in China. The main reason of applying censorship is basically about the sensitivity of anti-government information, which is formed throughout the history coming along with conservative thinking, and that makes China become one of the fewest countries that apply the Internet censorship in the world. Even though the modern world has more open mindset and intimate international connections, the fundamental root of the conservative thinking is too deep to be eliminated at once (Guo, para 6). Speaking broadly, today many threats have emerged and endangered national security and worldwide peace, such as Al-Qaida terrorists. As the technology going advanced, cyber war has also become the key to win the battle in order to protect privacy, classified information and finance. In order to better defend against the enemies, better protection will be given with Internet censorship, and even though we lose the opportunity of worldwide communication on Internet, it's worthy to do this tradeoff (Gaille, 10, 11). 
Also, censorship protects children from images of pornography has been around for many decades, even in Western nations like the United States. It would be accurate to say that the Internet is saturated with obscene and pornographic websites that feature all types of images presented sexually explicit material. Such material is certainly inappropriate for children as concluded by virtually all nations around the world (Gaille, para 6, 7). 
	There are also other purposes of Internet censorship. For example, today there are way too many piratic products of piracy existing on Internet such as music and movies. The laws of censorship help reducing the downloading of material that belongs to another entity without getting their permission and save millions of dollars in theft from occurring (Gaille, para 8, 9). 
Supporters on the other side, including me, think that the strictness of the censorship should be controlled in a citizen-acceptable range. It might be necessary to apply censorship, but doing in an extreme way will bring inconvenience for many people. Anti-terrorism can be done without blocking world popular websites such as Facebook and You Tube, which actually provides many access to worldwide cultures learning and communication, which is the main purpose of those social networks. Also, these social networks are ran by approved companies, and as I found in one of the articles, the statistic reveals that there are more than seven hundred thousand Facebook accounts created by Chinese users, and most of people know or learn lately how to use virtual private network(VPN) to surf banned websites (D.D'Jaen', para, 2). Therefore, there is no need to be such extremeness since the censorship fails to fully block citizens. Since the policy can't prevent people from surfing websites accordingly, the government should remove the barricades from them, otherwise it should be considered as a deceiving method for more unclaimed purposes. Because of the sensitivity of anti-government news or other politically negative information, it's impossible to search dissent content by simply typing the keywords on the screen, and it is known that many international social networks have unlimited freedom of information display (Qiang, para 7). If the government claims to filter all the anti-government information, it shall be considered as committing hiding the truth from people, which is no welcome at all. 
The point of view on both sides claimed clearly of their standing angles, however, they have one thing in common that they are all hypothesis based on the existing facts. Since Chinese government never explained more than a word, it is difficult to accurately analyze the true motivation of Internet censorship. Therefore, the statement of reasons on both sides can be turned over by other existing factors. For the supporters of censorship, the truth that over 35 million Facebook and Twitter account registered by Chinese users exist (Russell, para1) proves that censorship fails, and we don't need an extreme censorship to block pornographic websites. For the opponent opinion, statistic reveals that countries without strict Internet censorship have a higher risk of losing privacy of bank information, which causes high rate of fraudulent usage of credit cards (Gaille, 10, 11). 
Many people believe that censorship drags the whole country from moving forward to openness, and censorship can't always prevent people, and it's true that there are over seven hundred thousand of Chinese Facebook accounts existing (Yang, para 15). Since the government fails to totally control the Internet, there must be more reasons for applying the Internet censorship and people can analyze what the potential reasons are, so the question is that when the government will claim by itself. Maybe the country is still struggling with conservative thinking which blocks it to move forward, but hopefully in the future the truth will come out and the problem will be solved. 
Bibliography: 
1. Feng, Guang Chao and Guo, Steve. "Understanding Support for Internet Censorship in China: An Elaboration of the Theory of Reasoned Action." Journal of Chinese Political Science 12. 1 (2012): 1-2. Web. 3 April. 2016 
2. D.D'Jaen', Miriam. "Breaching the Great Firewall of China: Congress Overreaches in Attacking Chinese Internet Censorship." Hein Online 27. 7 (2007-2008): 1-3. Web. 3 April. 2016 
3. Yang, Guobin. "A Chinese Internet? History, Practice, Globalization." Chinese Media and Globalization 5. 1 (2012): 3-4. Web. 3 April. 2016 
4. Qiang, Xiao. "The Battle for the Chinese Internet." Journal of Democracy 22. 2 (2011): 47-61. Web. 3 April. 2016 
5. Halderman, J. Alex and Xu, Xueyang and Mao, Z. Morley. "Internet Censorship in China: Where Does the Filtering Occur?" Springer Link 65. 7 (2012): 2-3. Web. 3 April. 2016 
6. Zucchi, Kristina. "Why Facebook is banned in China?" Investopedia 103. 5 (2015): 1-2. Web. 1 May. 2016. 
7. Gaille, Brandon. "The Pros and Cons of Internet Censorship." Brandon Gaille 145. 3 (2013): 2-3. Web. 1 May. 2016 
8. Russell, Jon. "No, Facebook does not have 63. 5 million active users in China." The Next Web 112. 5 (2013): 1-2. Web. 1 May 2016 
4/20/2016	 
