Offering Tea Art Course for University Students 
When I worked in teahouse most customers, relatively educated middle-class, did not know how to prepare tea properly, and some of them even did not know basic manner when they drink tea. The most common way people drink tea is simply mix green tea with boiled water which temperature is too high to destroy vitamin C, resulting taste bitter. Obviously, Chinese tea culture is fading away from Chinese life. Hence, it is urgent to preserve our own tea culture, and the most efficient way is offering tea art course as interest course for university students. Through the tea art course, students have a chance to learn Chinese tea culture and tradition. Beside, when students study tea art course also improve their relationship with each other. More importantly, tea is also good for their health rather than other beverage. 
Some people may complain about that university is place for academic study not for personal interest. In addition, there are schools aimed for tea art study. Hence it is not necessary to offer tea art course for students in university. It is true that there exist tea art schools for people to study, but most of those schools are highly in charged one-to-one study that most people cannot afford it. The high coat for learning tea art contributes the decay of Chinese tea culture. Besides, like art class, tea art class teaches students how to appreciate aesthetic, which also is an important composition of university class. A lot of friends of mine show their interests in tea culture, but they do not know how to study. If university provide tea art course for students, it will provide an opportunity for students to study tea art in low cost. Though the class, they also learn about Chinese tradition. 
During the interview with Dr. Pettit, he mentioned that tea paly an important role in our social life. In Saberi's article also talk about the importance of tea as medium during the business conversation. Therefore, providing tea course for students in university also could improve students' relationship. In nowadays, people especially youth cannot live without mobile phone and laptop. They prefer to text to others and talk through mobile phone. When people hang out with their friends they still spent most of their time on those advanced technology. It seems that students are getting away from each other. However, tea curses hold in tea party form will enhance students' communication and improve their friendship. A 2003 article by David Grigg stated that tea is related to Zen Buddhism. Dr. Pettit also stated that "We can drink tea at home instead of going to Buddha siting and participating in Buddhist ritual, which also strengthening your awareness sense and creating different sensation of difference perception." Hence during the tea party we have more serious topic like Zen Buddhism or daily affairs to discuss with each other in a relaxing way. 
All kinds of beverage saturated everywhere, however, those beverage contains high calories. From the chart of HBO indicates that every 12 ounces of cola contains 136 calories, and even every 12 ounces of 100% apple juice contains 168 calories. Compared with those beverages, every 12 ounces of unsweetened iced tea only 2 calories. It is obvious that drinking tea is wise for weight management. In Rongping Ruan's research Tea Consumption and Mortality in the Oldest-Old Chinese pointed out that drinking tea improve survival and longevity. Offering tea art class encourages student form drinking tea habits which benefit their whole life. After students learn to how to prepare tea and drink tea properly in tea art class, they can drink tea instead of cola when they feel thirsty and enjoy the process of preparing tea. 
Considering protect Chinese tradition culture, improve student's relationship, and intensify health management, offering tea art class for university students is necessary. After class, when students drink at home, they also could teach their family members how to drink and prepare tea properly which also enhance family membership. During tea art class, teachers are not only supposed to teach tea ceremony but also tea history. If the condition permit, school can organize filed trip to mountain that cultivated with tea tree to watch how leave become all kinds of flavor tea, which also trigger students' interest about tea. 
