P5D1 Argumentative Essay Assignment 
April 9, 2015 
Too Early and No Meaning 
Did you remember the lovely robots called Tars, Case and Kipp in the new sci-fi movie <Interstellar>? In the movie, they are really clever robots and help the main character, Copper, to travel successfully. Will it be possible to have such a robot in the future? Or they will just appear in novels or movies? Artificial Intelligence is an area working for these interesting things. In the area of AI, scholars now are trying to make human-level robots, that means, robots which have the same emotions, reasoning and thinking as humans. If AI robots can be invented, they will totally change our life. However, many scholars think about Artificial Intelligence from another side. They are worrying about the relationship between AI machines and humans. Because robots are much stronger than humans, so if they become our emeries, we will be led by robots. The famous movie <Matrix> tells a story under such a background. What's more, in Is Artificial Intelligence a Threat? (Angela Chen, 2014) from The Chronicle of Higher Education, Angela Chen mentioned that the Center for the Study of Existential Risk was established for those reasons. But in fact, it's too early to think about the danger from now. What's more, worrying about this can do nothing to help us prevent the potential danger. 
People began knowing Artificial Intelligence from 1970s. On May 11, 1997, a famous chess-playing robot appeared in the public's sight. Deep Blue defeated many famous and professional chess players from that time. Later, another AI called Watson won a quick-response game. People found it was possible for robots to understand natural words very well. More and more scholars began to do researches and made a lot of processes. Nowadays, AI robots help people in a lot of areas, such as facial recognition, eye recognition, GPS and games. It seems AI machines have entered our daily life. But does it means we need to worry about them? 
Turing test is a test which was raised by Alan Turing, the greatest expert in Computer Science. It is a test used for testing whether a machine has human intelligence. Till now, Turing Test is still held every year as a competition for AI machines. AI machines need to make humans think they are real people instead of robots by talking with real people. On June 7, 2014, At a contest marking the 60th anniversary of Alan Turing's death, a chatterbot called Eugene Goostman made 33% of the judges thought it was human. Later the organizer of this event, Kevin Warwick, considered it had passed the Turing test. Though the experts considered Eugene had passed the test, the rate was only 33%. The fact is, most people can distinguish AI and human very well. It's still a long time to make AI be able to confuse most of humans. 
"Long time" is an undefined concept and can make people puzzled. How long will it take to make a human-level AI? The answer is no one can predict the time. In the Cambridge, Cabs and Copenhagen: My Route to Existential Risk(Huw Price,2013) from the New York Times, Huw Price talked about the concept of "singularity". The technological singularity is a time point that we usually consider after it, progress in technologies will accelerate and out of control. At that time, our life will totally different from nowadays'. It's just like rabbits cannot understand human's life. We cannot understand the life after the "singularity". So the question comes -- can the "singularity" be predicted? The answer is also no. Like people could not predict when the Second Industrial Revolution would happen in 1850s, we cannot the "singularity" as well. Moreover, it's impossible to prevent it from happening. If Edison did not invent the electric lamp, would it mean no one else could invent the lamp and the Second Industrial Revolution would not happen? Of course not. The same to researches in Artificial Intelligence. We are sure that the "singularity" will come someday, but no one knows how it and when. What we now know is, AI still needs a lot of achievements and there is no indication that the "singularity" will come in next 50 years. 
Artificial Intelligence is not the only area which working for creating intelligence. In my interview with <name>, he mentioned that biology was also working for this. Many different areas are trying to achieve intelligence, AI is just one of them and is nothing special. Biology still cannot use robots very well in difficult surgeries even the robots are controlled by people. GPS still makes mistakes very often. Siri just can answer very easy questions. All these AI machines in our life seem very harmless. Neither friends nor emeries. Just like How artificial intelligence is changing our lives (Gregory M. Lamb, 2012) comes from The Christian Science Monitor says, they are just tools which make our life much easily and more convenient now. Will they be harm to us? Maybe they will, but it will only happen in hundreds of years later. 
Artificial Intelligence is an amazing area and make all of us think about future life. But worrying about its danger is not necessary now. Since AI needs a long period of time to achieve human-level, we should not focus on it too much. In fact, we cannot do something as well. Like <name> said, what we should worry about and focus on are the problems about hunger, world peace, illness and poverty. These things are what we are facing now. Only we can solve the problems we are suffering now, we can think about the distant future. 
