21 November 2015 
The Chinese Culture Cause Hard Time to Making Friends with Americans 
It is disputable that Chinese is a very different linguistic system from English. People communicate with each other in many different languages and every different language shape the way that people think differently. Boroditsky's 2007 study described how languages impacts on the way people think about space, time, colors, and objects. She further explained that, "Language is central to our experience of being human, and the languages we speak profoundly shape the way we think, the way we see the world, the way we live our lives"para 25. For instance, she believes that people's idea of the time is different from each other base on their native language. In her research, she illustrated English speaker tend to think time from a horizontal aspect, and people who speak Mandarin, on the other hand, think time more often from vertical aspect way than English speaker. To test out her assumption, she did an experiment to support her idea. In her experiment, she pointed on one spot and told the people "This spot, here, is today. Where would you put yesterday? And where would you put tomorrow?" In her experiment, the English speakers asked to do this are usually point horizontally. In the contrast, Mandarin speaker often point this vertically, and the number of Mandarin people doing this is about seven or eight time than English speaker who doing this para.26. As a result, the different way of people's demonstration of time has showed that the language would shape people's idea dissimilarly. In other words, the language issue affects Chinese people and American people think differently, which form a barrier for them to get alone with each other. The language form a different way of thinking that cause Chinese people have most fundamental dissimilar way of live, a totally different culture , with Americans. 
As a further result, the language differences give a rise to a problem that get an idea cross between people. Many of my Chinese friends have told me they could not get the laugh point of American people's joke. They do not understand the sense of humor of American people, and so do the American people. Most of my American people told me they do not know what subject to talk about with Chinese people. Chinese people grow up in an atmosphere that shaped them significantly dissimilar to Americans; they facing a challenge to make friends with local people are not due to the individuals, but the result from the language people spoken. 
On the other side, Chinese philosophies mostly taught people to be more passive in mutual conversation, which mean hardly show their feeling, and motion to others. However, Americans are famous about saying stuff straightforwardly and show their kindness or passion to others unconsciously. A vividly example is <name>, my high school friend; and her experience showed how different the value of people's relationship in two countries. She told me that when she first came to the school, many American people talked to her and had curiosity about where her came from, but after a week, not many people talked to her much as before. Some of American people told her "Could we become BFF? Oh, you don't know what is BFF? It is mean the best friend forever!", but most of those people never came back to talk to her. She pointed out that many of Americans had a habit that saying something they did not mean it. For example, she told me that many American people would ask "how you doing today?", but had no interest on how her life go. If she said "not well", people would look like get an unexpected answer. "One day I was walking, one of my American friend asked how do I doing today, I told her not good, and she just said 'that is good' and walked away," she said with some meaningful smile F.<name>, personal communication, October 30, 2015. Obviously, in her example, Chinese people and American people focus on different part of the question, "how are you doing today". Chinese people really consider answering the question when people ask their status, but American people take that question as a polite way to say "hello". The philosophy of American is very confuse for many Chinese people and as a result, they are not use to get alone with each other. 
Nowadays, we could see huge amount of Chinese face in American campus. Making friends with American people has become a common challenge for every Chinese students who study in American. There are people blamed this to individual Chinese students. However, people holding this belief underestimate how affective of one's culture background. American and Chinese people are fundamentally different in their deepest part due to the environment of two country. The challenges that for Chinese people to making friend with American will still exist just as Chinese culture would never extinction. 
