Setting Up Specific Language Courses to Help International Students 
Once entering universities in the US, many international students may face problems of adapting the new language atmosphere and overcoming language barriers. They may have trouble in both social areas and academic areas. According to survey in the article "Academic Difficulties" written by Fangfang Gao, many non-native speakers in the campus in Hawaii have trouble in understanding contents of course and it is hard for them to communicate with native speakers sometimes. In order to help international students improve English levels in both academic areas and social areas, I argue that it is important to set up specific courses that aim at enhancing English abilities of international students. 
If specific language courses are set up, international students will have more opportunities to practice and correct errors when they attend courses. Take Boston University for an instance, Boston University's Intensive English Language Program (IEP) offers international students courses in English as a Second Language. In opinions of students who took these classes, such specific courses shorten accommodation period of international students and offer preparation for them. In contrast, international students who do not attend specific language courses may face challenges in acquiring knowledge due to language barriers. They may not grasp all the contents in the classes and make many mistakes that support the view that language courses do help international student improve language skills. 
Particularly for oral English, practice undoubtablely works, however, according to my interview, my academic advisor Mrs. Robinson claimed that there is a common mistake international students would make is mixing up similar words when they speak English. That is the reason specific language courses should be set up. In Mrs. Robinson's opinion, it may not be easy for international students to find out the shortcomings in oral English. In the process of attending language courses, they will improve and discover the mistakes when utilizing English more frequently. Moreover, students who improve their spoken English may feel freer to communicate with native speakers, in this process. It might be easier for them to make friends since their speaking skills have been enhanced. Therefore, combine attending specific language courses with practicing is much more efficient than practicing alone. 
Some may disagree with the point of view that it is necessary for universities to set up language courses. They may state that students will get improve in the process of practice and they will integrate themselves into environments with differing language. Practice plays a role in the process of learning. However, we should not underestimate the benefit of language courses for non-native speakers since non-native speakers tend to make mistakes frequently. Mistakes in their articles need to be corrected. Based on opinions of my academic advisor Mrs. Janet, unfortunately, it is hard for international students to find out mistakes they have made by themselves because they are not familiar enough to the second language. That is why exposing shortcomings to teachers is a helpful way for them to boost English levels. With the accommodating specific language courses such as writing classes for non-native speakers, international students may make less mistakes than before and learn to write in English idiomatically. It is efficient for international students to learn writing skills from language courses combined with abundant practice such as attending spoken English courses rather than practicing alone. There is no doubt specific language courses helps a lot with international students' writing. 
Think differently, Once English levels have been improved in the process of attending language courses, international students are able to learn more differences between how Americans think and how people from their own countries think. People from different countries may see things from differing sides. With the development of students' English abilities, international students integrate the environment in the US gradually. They might learn to think like Americans. According to my observation, international students who are better at English have more chances to communicate with native speakers and it is easier for them to make friends with native speakers. So they change the way of thinking and learn to think from differing angles while blending into the environment. Therefore international students are more likely to get higher grades in the examinations then get success in the academic areas. 
Briefly speaking, I argue that setting up specific courses is an efficient way to accommodate international students boosts English abilities in social areas and academic areas. With the help of specific language courses, international students will acclimate to campus life in the US better and it is more likely for them to get success in studying and expand the circle of friends. What's more, universities should pay attention to international students' demand since number of international students continues to climb. Offering specific language courses satisfies international students' legitimate desire to learn English well. 
