P5d1 
17.11. 2015 
E-learning vs tradition education 
Computer technology has been more and more important in our daily life. As a computer science student, I can see that the modern technology has changed a lot of things. E-learning has been more and more widely used than before. The the educational tools are very important to every student's life. And the question of "Which educational tool is the best for students to study faster " has been a significant issue for the universities and schools. I believe that E-learning is better than traditional education because of three different reasons. 
	The first reason is that E-learning can provide a lot of resources for students to use. With online books, students would not necessarily go to the class, and the students can watch the lecture over and over again until they get the material. Throughout the first year of my college life. I used an online course called <course> and I think is very useful because <course> is a kind of hard course and every students need to preview the contents of the class, many things need to be reviewed by us before the exam as well. The online book can let me to watch the lecture a lot of times before I came to the classroom, when I got in the classroom, the hard knowledge became very easy for me since I have learned it so many times. Before the final exam, some of the knowledge was been taught a long time ago and the students might have already forgotten. The students can also use the E-books to review the contents. 
	As for my second reason, I would like to talk about another advantage of E-learning, self-paced. Students can manage their own time by themselves, this kind of opportunity can help students to be good at time management. For example. I used to study Korean by myself with an online course. It is completely self-paced and I can choose which chapter to learn, if one chapter is little hard for me, I can just spend more time on this chapter until I get the material. Teachers don't know which chapter is hard or which chapter is easy for the students. They just teach the content one by one and the students can be so tired to learn a new thing if the last chapter is so difficult. 
	My third and last reason is that E-learning has a such huge and complete database. Students can learn a lot of things that might be a little difficult for them to be educated by the teachers in their school. A smart middle school student might think the contents of middle school teaching material is too easy and he want to learn something about Calculus. It is impossible that the teachers in the middle school can give the students a Calculus lecture. However, E-learning can be used by this student, he can watch an online lecture on the Internet and don't need to worry about how much time he need to understand the content. When I was in the high school, I wanted to study some TOEFL course but none of my classmates want to learn it and my English teacher can't teach me as well. So I just learned an online course by myself and took the exam. I can't even studied in an American university without E-learning. 
	Many other people will argue that traditional education can make the teacher have the face to face communication with the students so that the teachers can know whether the tool is working. However it depends on the students. Some student might can be shy share their their thought with the teachers. Teachers might think the students get the knowledge but actually the students just too shy to say that they don't understand the content and this kind of situation is just wasting the students time. On the hand, E-learning can let the students and the teachers have face to face communication as well. 
	In conclusion, I believe that E-learning is better than traditional education. E-learning can save students time and let the students to learn the knowledge faster and more convenient. Even traditional education has its own benefits. But I still insist that the schools should use E-learning more widely. 
