P5D3 Argument 
April 26, 2015 
Social media influence college students 
Nowadays, social media become more and more popular, almost every students will use one or more kinds of social media, It is now one of the most common ways to share ideas, to find out the latest news and trends, to find new friends and to stay connected to the old ones, especially if they are far away. Thus, social networking has become an inescapable factor of influence on college students, at the meantime, social media whether or not can influence college students in good way or bad way become the hottest topic. In my standing, college students have enough ability to control themselves, they can use social media to help and show some advantages of social media, there are my reasons 
First of all, social media hides inestimable potential. In the past 40 years, students use telephone, letters, face to face to communicate, but if people in different places interval 400 miles, it is so hard to talk face to face, meanwhile, old fashion communication hinder students to expand friends' cycle, they just can make friends who they already knows, or friend's friends, Comparing to new style of communication which is social media, students can meet various people online, they can make distinctive area of students like students who study engineer, and students who learned Arts, students can learn lots of stuff that they never heard before according to social media. Meantime, students need strong self control, as we known, In social media, there are lots of unknown information, perhaps some information can help students in academic, daily life, but sometimes some information content bad element, like selling drug, showing eroticism. Thus, students need control themselves, and decide which information they should look. For example, if you have six people in Facebook, you can make friends with all people who have account in Facebook, but meantime, you need figure out who is right people you can make friend with him 
Moreover, it is obvious that social media can consolidate friend's relationship, without social media, some intimates chat twice every week because of distance, however, after using social media, they can chat anytime they want, changing to other word, social media eliminate distance, changing the long distance to shortest. In opposite, some people disagree this idea, before using social media, people always talk face to face, making phone call, people will understand the real meaning easily depending on the tone of talking, facial express, but if using social media, it is so hard to catch this kind of detail, mistake will accumulate, then friends will quarrel, then break up. Last two weeks, I interviewed a professor whose name is <name>, she told me that if you are friends before, social media will help you to advance relationship, if you are stranger, social media just like medium to provide a chance to know each other. Basically, social media can help people to enhance friendship, and open up new area. 
Finally, For college students, they left home and live with friends without parents reminder, it is easy to get lost on social network and be addicted to some inveracious internet. So it is very important to understand what does social network will bring to us. It is hard process to really get it, lot of students just indulge, and browse people's profile, look some bad advertisements every time. Nevertheless, social media has this kind of disadvantage, i still asserts social media is the most success innovation in human history, it help college students realize what they really want, as well as provide many opportunities. For instance, when students log in twitter, they can find a lot of job information, perhaps they can get internship. To be honest, students who indulge in social media, the main reason that cause them is lacking sense about time. It is the most important quality for every person. If thinking in other aspect, social media help students to train their quality of saving time 
In conclusion, some people claim social media has two sides, helping college students, and hurting students. But in my side, social media really help college students in lots of ways 
