P5#D2#Argumentative essay 
April 21, 2015 
Are international students special? Are they different from local students? The answer is yes and no. Students that come from another country do live with a different culture and living style but they also have normal and common method to over come these difficulties ---- Making friends, the best way for international students to cope with their new situation 
Firstly, making friends with a native English speaker could help an international student greatly develop his English. Tra Ho, the author of 5 Ways International Students Can Improve Conversational English Skills, has argued, "If you pronounce a word incorrectly, or misuse an idiom, you want them to tell you. You will learn much faster this way." By Tra Ho, para 10, 2014. If an international student have a bunch of American friends to point his mistakes out then it would be easier for him to correct those mistakes compared with to learn it alone. Also, from my interview with <name> , the <position> and a number of PLa CE(Purdue Language and Cultural Exchange), " American friends are more likely to affect you with chances to use and Practice English than a student from other culture." Making friends with an English speaker are just like making friends with people from other culture ---- you will do things together, and during whatever your doing, talking about the new movie or hung out around a supermarket, you will talk to each other in English. 
Also, making friends with Americans will help an international student to better adapt to local community. From my interview with <name> , I've learned that although we, international students and American students, are at the same age but activities that we are mostly taking part to are somewhat different. For example, A Chinese boy like me is not likely to go to a dancing party or join a volunteering activity, which are popular among American students. While it's hard to deny that a specific individual cannot represent all Chinese people because different people have different hobbies. Some of Chinese students may have the experience to join these dancing clubs or a volunteering group but the truth is that most schools in China doesn't have those clubs or groups and not as much Chinese students are interested in those activities as American people do. There is no doubt that the best way to adapt to a community is to become a member of it and enjoy those activities and an American friend could become a big help for an international student to get to know these activities. 
Further more, people all have hard times, especially for those who are thousands miles away from their home and family, and a friend could be a cup of hot tea to warm their heart. Just like what <name> said to me during the interview, "Different people have different ways to deal and get rid of their stresses, but when a person comes to a new condition, the ways that he or she were familiar with sometimes no longer work well so that they need friends to help them develop with new hobbies." As for me, I used to play Chinese chess and go to restaurants with my friends to deal with my bad feelings when I was in China. But there are no more people that play chess and no more restaurants that I like when I came to America. I think this happens to all international students since the foods they like, the movies they watch and even the songs they used to listen are all no longer exist. The people who help me with it was my roommate, he taught me how to skate and I found myself pretty like it. While international students may be able to find new things to do on their own but it's hard to deny that these things would become much more interesting if there is a friend to share with. 
As a conclusion, making friends with local students could help international students to better improve their English, easier to cope with the local community and get rid of their stress more efficiently. Not only for cope with the new situations, but also during our life, we face a lot of challenges and changes no matter in the past or in the future and having a company when those challenges happened would be a great happiness. 
Reference 
Ho, T. (2014, March 4). 5 Ways International Students Can Improve Conversational English Skills. Retrieved from http://www.usnews.com/education/blogs/international-student-counsel/2014/03/04/5-ways-international-students-can-improve-conversational-english-skills 
3 
