4/13/2016 
Is plastic surgery good or bad? 
	Nowadays, plastic surgery becomes increasingly popular. Some people do plastic surgery to become physically attractive. Some people do it to obtain a good future. However, there is also someone who absolutely opposes the fact that women should do plastic surgery. They believe that doing plastic surgery has potential risks. Moreover, it will not help a women's future either. 
	When we think about plastic surgery, some scary pictures might appear in our mind, like stiff face expressions or swollen eyes. Of course, there are some bad examples of plastic surgery, and there are even some people died on the operation table. However, it is really rare. People who choose to do the high risks surgery, such as reshape the body bones to become taller, should have the mental preparation that something might go wrong. If this is their decision, we cannot judge that. Everything is dangerous, even a common cold can cause a bigger illness or death. People should not say all plastic surgeries are bad based on one single bad example. Doctors perform simple and small surgeries, like double eyelid hundreds of times. The skills are mature right now. If we make the decision to do the plastic surgery, make sure to find a big hospital that has a good public reputation. Then there is nothing we need to worry about. 
	There are some people who support the idea that everyone is special. Maybe one's appearance is not as good as others, but this is who she or he is. I have a friend; she does not even want to have an ear pierce. She told me that her mother gave her life and physical look, and she should not change it. This is disrespectful to her mother. Before I thought she might be right. Natural is the best. Nevertheless, I found out most of the mothers do not care, and they even support their daughters to undertake plastic surgery to become attractive. My mother told me that if I want to do it, she would totally support me. Everyone pursues beauty. If there is some other way can help you become beautiful that mother cannot give you at the very beginning, mother will support you and always be there for you. 
	Under this society, physical appearance becomes more and more important. Some people might say that if we want to find a good job, we need to have real skills and working experiences. No one cares about how we look like. This is just partially true. When we go to a company to interview, the first thing they see is the physical appearance. It might sound unbelievable, but the fact is cruel. I have a cousin; she was graduated from a top ten university in China. She joined a lot of clubs, and she was also the president of student council. However, she is not pretty. When she went to a company, the boss hired a beautiful young woman who did not have that much experience like my cousin had. Now she decides to do the plastic surgery this summer. Of course the working ability and skills are crucial for a company, but the boss cannot see the ability from outside. If you are good looking, they will give you a chance to show your ability. However, if you are ugly, you might not have the opportunities. This is hard to believe, but this is the fact that we all need to accept. 
Everything has two sides. Plastic surgery might sounds scary because this is the only time that people lie on the operation table without any physical disease. No one can guarantee that when you leave the operation room, you will be attractive and healthy. However, everything needs a cost. If we want to become beautiful, we need to bear the pain. We also need to have the mental preparation when we walk in the operation room. No one pushes us to do the surgery. To be honest, plastic surgery do have little potential risks, but which things that do not have risks? There are thousands of good examples that women become much prettier than before after the surgery, so it is all your decision. 
