Arguementative Essay 
4/17/2016 
Draft 2 
The reason why pharmacy area should be develop 
The pharmacy products are familiar to almost everyone because everyone will get sick. When people get sick, they directly go to doctors and let doctors figure out what kind of medicine are suitable for them. However, are those people know how those medicine they take was developed or why these medicine can cure their illness? In my opinion, the pharmacy should be developed even faster than before to deal with the serious health problems happened in this world. However, some people think the opposite way because they do not think there are such important issues need to deal with. Today, I will use my research and interview with mrs. Kelly to prove my idea which is the pharmacy area need to be developed. 
Firstly, some people say that people should not worry about the problems like aging, obesity or even super virus. They have their own reason that the aging problem happened a long time ago and it does not have serious effect to the society. Also, the obesity isthe choice of people, if they do not make changes about their life habit, the problem will never be solved. As for the super virus, it has the lowest threat because it only present in several small area. However, these are all ideas that some people think. I believe that those three problem I mentained are all pretty serious and they need to be solved by developing the pharmacy area. Through the article "New challenge to health: the threat of virus infection", the writter Geoffery L. Smith claimed that when the virus has the drug resistent, "it required the sythesis of several hundreds novel molecular before a medicine candidate was identify"(325). This condition also happened in another terrifying disease called HIV which is not yet have a cure to deal with it. If we do not start to do research with the super virus, it will become an unsolved problem like HIV. There is also an article named " What is the current and future aging proble" written by Shin-ichi Ohshima and it has a disagreement with those people who think aging is not a serious problem. In this article, the author claimed that" if the health of aged people was totally covered by medicine, medical costs for aged people would increase endlessly"(2) which points out two problems. One problem is that aging problem really has some burden to the society, second problem is the pharmacy area is not mature enough because the price of medicine is pretty expensive to most people. This is also the reason why the pharmacy area needs to be developed. As for the obesity, according to the article "Obesity" written by Kathlenn Y. Wolin and Jennifer M Petrelli, "Antiobesity medications influence weight loss by reducing patient's overall caloric intake"(79) which points out that the antiobesity medicines are effective to people who have obesity. However, those kind of medicine now sometimes have negative effects to patients as well. So, with the development of the technology in pharmacy area, the products to cure obesity will be more effective and without bad effect. All of those article can prove my thought about the pharmacy area needs more development. 
Secondly, the interview I made with <NAME> who is working in Boehringer-ingelheim can prove my point that pharmacy area needs to be developed. Actually, some people mentioned an idea that the pharmacy area can develop so fast is only because the new conception called bio-pharmaceutical. After the research about the bio-pharmaceutical can not develop as smooth as recent then years, the fast development in the pharmacy should stop. Indeed, the bio-pharmaceutical is the important factor to push the pharmacy area development go further. However, even the bio-pharmaceutical start to become difficult to develop, the development in the pharmacy area will not stop. Because even the bio-pharmaceutical is important to research now, the traditional area still have more than 70 percent of products. Also, we only know about the most easiest application in the bio-pharmaceutical, the more complicated level definately will take a long time for research. On the other hand, Mrs. Kelly claimed that even though the fast development will end in ten years, it does not mean that the development in pharmacy will stop. She said that there were still huge number of diseases did not have a cure to deal with, so the researches will definately go on. Also, <NAME> told me that after the Human Genome Project finished, it give pharmacy area one new development chance. With the familiar with human gene, the development cure of different disease that we did not now how to fix before become possible now because we know more clearly about the function of different part of gene. <NAME> claimed that with those knowledege, scientists can figure out how to deal with some disease caused by gene deficient. After I heard those ideas from <NAME>, I really agree with her. Even she told me knowledges I do not know before, we have the similar thought about pharmacy. 
Thirdly, some people think that those big pharmacy starts to decrease the research of new product because the decrese of reture of assets will make the development in pharmacy area stop. After I did some research on the internet, I found out it is true about the decrease of research. However, I do not agree with that the decrease of researches will make the development in pharmacy area stop. The reason is that most of the big pharmacy companies are in developed countries. However, most developing countries also want to develop their own technology in pharmacy. In most case, the technology of pharmacy products are never be traded because they are the most important part in a pharmacy company and it took so much resources. So, the company in the developing countries need to develop their own products. Also, a lot of pharmacy company in developing countries have the support of goveronment. Based on those factors, even those big pharmacy companies decrease the product research, it will not make the pharmacy area stop. 
All in all, according to those articles, the interview and my own research on internet, there are a lot of examples that can prove my idea about the pharmacy area should be developed well. Even though there are also some disadvantages, the phamacy is still a basic need for people. 
Citation: 
Geoffery, L. Smith. "New challenge to health: the threat of virus infection." London; Cambridge University Press, 2001. 
Shin-ichi, Ohshima." What is the current and future aging proble." Japan Geriatrics & Gerontology International 2012. 
Kathlenn, Y. Wolin and Jennifer M Petrelli. "Obesity."Santa Barbara, California ABC-CLIO, 2009. 
