Social media influence college students 
Nowadays, social media become more and more popular, almost every students will use one or more kind of social media, It is now one of the most common ways to share ideas, to find out the latest news and trends, to find new friends and to stay connected to the old ones, especially if they are far away. Thus, social networking has become an inescapable factor of influence on college students, at the meantime, social media influence college students in good way or bad way become the hottest topic. In my standing, college students have enough ability to control themselves, they can use social media to help and show some advantages of social media, there are my reasons 
First of all, social media hide inestimable potential. In the past 40 years, students just can use telephone, letters, face to face to communicate, but if people in different places like 400 miles away, it is so hard to talk face to face, meanwhile, old fashion of communication hinder students to expand friends' cycle, they still make friends who they already knows. Comparing to new style of communication which is social media, students can meet various people online, they can make distinctive area of students like students who study engineer, and students who learned Arts, students can learn lots of stuff that they never heard before according to social media. For example, there if an famous theory which named "six people theory" which means a person who know six people, he can make friends with all people in Facebook. Depending on the data I research online, students can make 29 new friends ultilize social media evenly. Therefore, social media is the best and fast way to know new persons 
Moreover, it is obvious that social media can consolidate friend's relationship, without social media, some intimates chat twice every week, however, after using social media, they can chat anytime they want, changing to other word, social media eliminate distance, changing the long distance to shortest. In opposite, some people disagree this idea, before using social media, people always talk face to face, making phone call, people will understand the real meaning easily depending on the tone of talking, facial express, but if using social media, it is so hard to catch this kind of detail, mistake will accumulate, then friends will quarrel. 
Finally, For college students, they left home and live with friends without parents reminder, it is easy to get lost on social network and be addicted to some inveracious internet. So it is very important to understand what does social network will bring to us. It is hard process to really get it, lot of students just indulge, and browse other students profile, look some bad advertisements every time. Nevertheless, social media has the disadvantage, i still asserts social media is the most success innovation in human history, it help college students realize what they really want, as well as provide many opportunities. For instance, when students log in twitter, they can find lot of job information, perhaps they can get internship. To be honest, students who indulge in social media, the main reason that cause them is lacking self control. It is the most important quality for every person. 
In conclusion, students can become more better according to social media 
