Should the Chinese government keep the Internet Censorship? 
In main land China, most of the citizens don't have the access to worldwide popular social network such as You Tube, Facebook and twitter, etc. The reason of this situation is that an Internet censorship is applied in the country and the information that government doesn't want citizens to see will be filtered when they try to search it on browsers. That means people can't see those websites by typing the addresses in the search engine. Why does China block the path for people to better communicate with the world? Chinese government only vaguely explained the reason that currently Internet is full of increasing security threats, which is actually the problem every country is facing, but why does only China apply this Internet censorship? Apparently, it's not what it looks like. Since it's not exactly what the government said, there must be other reasons hidden from the public, and to find them out, many online researchers have conducted programs, trying to look for the real reasons. There are some aspects related to the motivation, one of which is about politics, which is the most important one. However, the most complicating part is to analyze the mindset of this motivation which was brought up and formed throughout the Chinese history and culture. Then after when we figure out the truth, there comes to another question whether it is still necessary to keep this Internet censorship. 
There is a large amount of online articles that analyze the reason and necessity of censorship policy in China. The reason is simply about the sensitivity of anti-government information, which is formed throughout the history coming along with conservative thinking, and that makes China become the country that only applies the Internet censorship in the world. Even though the modern world has more open mindset and intimate international connections, the fundamental root of the conservative thinking is too deep to be eliminated at once. Therefore, to move forward in openness, should the Internet censorship be removed? Today many threats have emerged that endanger national security and worldwide peace, such as Al-Qaida terrorists. As the technology going advanced, cyber war has also become the key to win the battle. In order to better defend against the enemies, many online articles support the application of Internet censorship so that better protection will be given, and even though we lose the opportunity of worldwide communication on Internet, it's worthy to do this tradeoff. 
Supporters on the other side, including me, think that the strictness of the censorship should be controlled in a citizen-acceptable range. It might be necessary to apply censorship, but doing in an extreme way will bring inconvenience for many people. Anti-terrorism can be done without blocking world popular websites such as Facebook and You Tube, which actually provides many access to worldwide cultures learning and communication, which is the main purpose of those social networks. Also, these social networks are ran by approved companies. Therefore, there is no need to be such extremeness. For explaining the reason of Internet censorship, Chinese government only stated that it is for the increasing cyber-attacks that threat the national security. Since there is almost no threat from these websites, the government should remove the barricades from them, otherwise it should be considered as a deceiving method for more unclaimed purposes. Because of the sensitivity of anti-government news or other politically negative information, it's impossible to search that information by simply typing the keywords on the screen. It is known that many international social networks have unlimited freedom of information display. If the government claims to clean all those sensitive information, it can be considered as dictatorship, which is a wrong way to rule for all the countries, and lectures were told in the history. 
The point of view on both sides claimed clearly of their standing angles, however, they have one thing in common that they are all hypothesis based on the existing facts. Since Chinese government never explained more than a word, it is difficult to accurately analyze the true motivation of Internet censorship. Therefore, the statement of reasons on both sides can be turned over by other existing factors. For the supporters of censorship, they are lack of explanation of how social network brings potential terrorist threats because it seems unlikely. For the opponent opinion, how social network doesn't threat Chinese national security. They look like both the same question but on different sides because the government never explains that and there is no other one explaining how it works in the field of national security. 
Many people believe that censorship drags the whole country from moving forward to openness, and censorship can't always prevent people, and it's true that there are over seven hundred thousand of Chinese Facebook accounts existing. Since the government fails to totally control the Internet, there must be more reasons for applying the Internet censorship and people can analyze what the potential reasons are, so the question is that when the government will say by itself. 
3 
April 11th 2016 
