College Student Should Learn To Manage Money 
Recently, most college students rely on their parents and they seldom consider about money, so they hardly have experience of managing their money. In fact, money management plays an essential role among college students and we can't live without money management. Money Management, in other words, is managing our money by using some specific ways to realize the maximum profit. Most people around may think that just adults can manage their money, but in my opinion, college students should learn to manage money in their own ways. 
Firstly, in my interview process, my interviewee considered that it's no necessary for college students to learn to manage their money. She thought college students are too immature to understand money management. It's very difficult for them to operate these methods to realize money management in their daily lives and they can use the proficient method like adults until they step to the society. However, I think it's very necessary for college students to learn to manage money and they should manage money with their own way. I'll introduce some ways that can support my positions in the following parts. 
At the beginning, learning to manage money can help college students save money. A common way to practice money management is to use credit card wisely. This is an easy way for college students to save the money. And it was referred in a journal that I found: "Pass along money-management tips every college students should know." A recent study that reported by Sallie. M reflects that more than half of the college students have more than one credit cards to manage their money, and most of their savings are more than 7000 dollars. Putting money into credit cards is a good way for them to keep their money. 
Before using the credit card, most of us are unclear about the amount of money that they have in a specific period. They almost not record the money that they use for each time, so that it's common for them to run out of money in a short time. Putting money into the credit card is easily for us to notice the change of our money in order to save it. Each time when we finish consuming with credit card we'll have a record in it. It's very easy for us to check the bill for that day. After checking the bill for each time, we'll consider to make a tradeoff for next time. For example, I checked my credit card's bill this weekend, I found that I purchased coffee for three times and supermarket for one time. All these things aren't the necessities in my life so it's no necessary for me to put more money on these things, I can reduce the time on coffee since there is no effect for me to consume these coffee or not. Although this is a small amount of money in my life, it will accumulate a portion of money in my account. If I reduce money on these trivial things I can save a part of money in our life with the help of recording in the credit card. In my life, I always put my money into checking account and saving account separately, usually, checking accounts is at least 50 dollars, the large rest of money is putting on the saving account since they are much safer than checking account. I need to make sure the amount is at least 50 dollars. Otherwise, I'll be charged extra fees for my credit limit. So use our credit cards correctly is a way for college students to save money in their daily lives. 
Additionally, learning money management can be a skill for college students to learn in the college. When they are good at this skill, it can help college students plan their money reasonably. The author Bennit in his paper "Money-Management skills for college students& parents" involves a Financial planning for us for reference. By using the skill of planning our daily money, we can also reach to money management. For example, we can create a special personal budget for our daily outcome. By dividing amount of money into categories of different uses, such as allocating some of money into school expense, the tuition fee, the book fee, study tools fees, etc. All these fees can be ascribed to unavoidable fees in our life. Other money can be used for living fees, the necessities of life, clothes, foods and drinks of daily life. We also need to leave a certain amount of money for the emergency fees in the unexpected future. However, except for these, we also need to allocate money periodically. Just to check the number of our money in a specific time, it's more convenience for us to control the money use for the next days, we don't need to worry about over the outcome. 
From all the opinions that I stated above, college students should learn to manage their money. Learning to manage money can help them save the money and can be a skill to make their lives more regularly. They can manage money by using some specific methods of their age and they don't need to use the professional methods like the adults used to manage money. I highly recommend college students to try these methods manage their money in their daily lives. I suggest that college students should learn to manage their money 
