Why College Should Not Schedule Students' Time 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This paper argues that colleges should not schedule students' time, citing resources from eight published articles and a personal interview with an expert. These articles have different opinions: Britton and Tesser(1991) and Jacobs and Hyman(2013) both think that time-management skills will positively influence student's grades, so either students or colleges can management their time will improve their grade. However, Hwang and Kuo and Hsu(2015) and Schiffrin and Geary, and Erchull (2014) discuss the negative effects of helicopter parents (parents who give excessive interest in the life of their children) on their children's study habits, and then argue that if students over rely on other people, it will not be helpful to develop their self-learning ability. Moreover, Dr. <name> , who is coordinator <program name> at College of Liberal Arts, also disagrees that colleges control too much to student's life. I support the opinion that it is more important for students to study self-learning ability. 
Should Colleges Schedule Students' Time? 
When students come to college, they have plenty of free time and a relatively loose study atmosphere. The use of free time is an important factor that influences their grade, but many students do not have good self-control and time-management skills. They may prefer to use their free time on playing or socializing than making a daily plan. Some people might ask: If universities schedule student's time, such as setting study hours, will it be helpful for their grade? Among the many academic articles that address this topic, on one hand, some experts think that college students grade depend on the time-management skills, college or others help them to set a schedule will improve their grade. On the other hand, many scholars support the opinion that students over rely on other people will restrict their self-learning ability. In my personal opinion, college should not schedule students' time, because to learn how to be a good self-learner is more important for them. 
First of all, students' self-learning ability will be limited if college control them too much. Hwang and Kuo and Hsu(2015) report that helicopter parents will negatively influence children because when parents take care everything for the children, they will not try to solve problem by themselves and will never grow up mentally. Schiffrin and Geary, and Erchull (2014) note that students who over rely on their parents to push them to study will usually have a bad study habits such as procrastination. Thus when they come to college, which have loose study atmosphere, will need long time to adapt high study pressure. Similarly, if students always rely other people to manage their time, they will never try to set a study plan by themselves. Moreover, colleges are the places that not only teach students' knowledge but also teach them self-learning abilities. Colleges can schedule time for students to help them, but when they graduate from university and go to work, no one will take care for them; they have to learn how to study by themselves. So it is better for students to study self-learning ability instead of let college schedule their time. 
Secondly, Although Britton, Tesser(1991) Lynn and Jeremy S.H.(2013) report that time-management skills are important for students' grade, in an interview, Dr. <name> told me: "I think the most important element that influence students' grade is motivation students who are motivated to study will usually get a high grade". (personal communication, 11/5/2015) In her opinion, motivation is much more important than time-management skills, because students who are motived to study know what majors fit them and have more enthusiasm to study, and they will get a good grade. The students who lack self-control and good time-managements skills usually do not have their own goals, because they do not know the reason of study. However, they are the students who need colleges urge to study, which means even if colleges set a study hours for them, they may waste it. So good students do not need college to take care of them, and the students who need help cannot realize that they lack self-control and time-management skills. 
Thirdly, it is hard for college to manage students' time. Some people suggest college schedule students' time by setting study hours and study groups in certain time and buildings. However, college can hardly set a policy. For example, if students are supposed to come to the study hours but they do not show up, what is the punishment for them? Moreover, if they come to study hours but do not study, who should urge them to study? So it is hard for college to schedule the study hours for them, and it may waste colleges' resources but will not help the students. 
Some people might argue that GPA is important for undergraduate students. A high GPA can help them to easily find a job and go to a better graduate school, and then they can have a better career in the future. Although when colleges take excessive care of them may limit their self-learning ability, it will help them to get a high GPA, which is useful for them. Students can be independent in the future, so to get a high GPA should be more important than to develop a self-learning ability. 
I agree that GPA is important and useful for students. However, if students only have a better GPA, but do not have a good self-learning ability and self-control, even though they go to a excellent graduate school or get a decent job, they will not do well. Moreover, time-management skills are just one of the elements that will influence students' grades. It can improve student's grades but it does not mean students who have good time-managements skills will get 4. 0 GPA. Nonis and Hudson (2010) say students should still need a other kind of skills to get a high GPA like the skill of making notes, skill of paying attention on class or doing homework, etc. According to their article "Performance of College Students: Impact of Study Time and Study Habits", many high-grade students not only have a good study habits but also spend a lot of time on it. The study skills and hard works lead to their success in college. 
According to all the reason in the discussion above, I believe that college should not schedule students' time. At first I thought that time-management skills were useful to improve students' grade and they could get a better grade if college could schedule time for them. However, after the research and the interview with Dr. <name> I think that the most important thing that student should learn in college is self-learning ability, they should know how to study by themselves and develop good study habits. As Dr. <name> said, motivation is the most important reason that positively influences student's grade, so I think the key to improve student's grade is to let them realize what study mean for them and why they should study for themselves. In the further research, people can try to find how to inspire students' interests of study. Once they are interested in study, they will have enthusiasm on the work and try their best to solve the problems they have. So they will work hard by themselves instead of relying on others. 
