Should China Continue the One-Child Policy Based on Its Effects of Siblings 
Introduction 
	Modern China has implemented the one-child policy for more than 40 years in order to solve the problems brought by overpopulation. Therefore, Chinese children cannot have siblings. The effects of having or not having siblings may not be evident in the present period, however, it would become an irreversible social problem when it appears. I got interested in should China continue the one-child policy based on its effects of having or not having siblings. I did research on the questions that what are the positive effects and negative effects to children themselves, their families and the entire society perspectives. Based on these researches, I think China should continue the one-child policy. I will illustrate my research procedure to support my opinion in the following statement and make a clear conclusion of my argument topic. 
Literature Methods 
	I read three articles which give strong supports for my argument topic and then I interviewed my sociology expert Dr. <name> who has an entire education background in China to find his opinions to verify what did the literature state and get more information about the one-child policy. 
	The first article I found considers that having no siblings could reduce the children's depression, fear and anxiety emotion compared with those children who have siblings. The researchers interpret that children who have siblings burden higher risk of poor adjustment and subsequent psychopathology which is cause by the comparison made by parents among their siblings (Dong, Q., Lin, L., Ollendick, T. H., Xia,Y., &Yang, B., 1995, p.1301). 
	The second article says that having no siblings could improve the children's academic performance and show better physical characteristics. The authors think that "the parents are likely to be more attentive to the child's development and have the time to engage in intellectually stimulating and emotionally supportive interactions" (Falbo, et al., 1989, p.485). They state that this way of doing brings the only children with better height, weight and academic achievement. 
	For my topic, the above two articles give strong support of the advantages of having no siblings. They imply that China could continue the one-child policy based on these positive effects of having no siblings. 
	However, I decided to give an overall research about the effects of having or not having siblings. I found an article which gives a strong evidence to prove the disadvantage of having no siblings. According to Zhang and Goza (2005), "Based on the traditional form of parent care in China that most parents would like to choose to rely on their children when they get old" (p. 162). Having siblings obviously reduce the stress of parent care for each children. That means more and more people who were born and grown up under the one-child policy burden enormous living stress. 
	These three articles provide me evidences to find the conclusion of my argument. Whereas, they contain both sides of the effects. In order to prove these opinions and get more information on the social perspective, I interviewed Dr. <name> and discussed my research questions with him. 
Interview Methods 
I stated the opinions mentioned in the previous three articles to Dr. <name>. He thought that having o siblings indeed reduce some kinds of negative emotions for children. However, it will kill all these beneficial opportunities to help children's health mental growth. For example, they will not be able to learn how to share with others and how to avoid to be selfish (Nie, F., 2015, personal communication). As for the opinion come up with the second article that having no siblings could improve the only children's academic performance and physical characteristics, Dr. <name> considered that too much attention and care from parent will kill the children's ability of independence. They may show moodiness and obvious opposite behavior as what their parents expect them to do. As far as he was concerned, the one-child policy causes negative effects to the "only children". However, it did a significant effect on the China's economic development. 
	Dr. <name> provided me a specific data to show the one-child policy's positive effect on the social perspective. This policy reduced 0. 46 billion new born from 1995 to 2009. It releases the stress of overpopulation to source, society, and environment and improve China's economy significantly ( <name> , 2015). 
Relaxing Policy-A Balance Method of the One-Child Policy 
Based on these effects, Dr. <name> comes up a relaxing policy which gives me a good way to find the balance point which could keep the good aspects of having no siblings and avoid its disadvantages. He thought for the developed area in China such as the eastern China, a family could give birth to more than one child so that the children could get the benefits of having siblings. Meanwhile, due to the good economics condition of the family, children who have siblings could still enjoy the good education and life. They won't lose the good physical characteristics and they also don't have to burden the stress of family care. On the other hand, for western China where is not that developed, they could still continue the one-child policy to promote their economy. 
Conclusion 
	To sum up, I think China should implement the new relaxing policy throughout the whole country. China is a huge country and different regions have different economics condition. Therefore, their primary needs are also distinct. It is not appropriate to enforce the same policy over the entire country. To get the most suitable solution of my argument topic, I consider that China should keep the one-child policy in the western area based on their needs of economics development, and access the relaxing policy in the eastern China where needs to avoid the negative effects of having no siblings. 
