P5D2 
April 16th , 2015 
ACG have positive effect on people's lives 
Do you know Iron man? Did you ever go to the Disney Land wearing funny Mickey Mouse hat? Did you ever be a fan of War-craft? All those things are related to ACG whose whole name is animation, comic , and game. However ACG as a new industry that can influence people's life was usually discredited by a lot of critics. One of the reasons is that ACG eats people's time. Around 89% children have personal computer or other video game-capable equipment, and they spend around 40 hours per week on comics and games. Besides, the audience is mostly adolescent. Critics thought the aggressive elements existing in comic and games will increase adolescent aggressive behaviors. Are the influences on people caused by ACG all negative? After my research, I found that ACG also has positive effect on people in several aspects. 
Firstly, ACG helps people to reduce pressure and relax. As we all know that college students are under a lot of pressure from lives. For example, they got exhausted in doing homework, keeping GPA and they felt anxious about how to make new friends. In that case, it is a good choice for the college students to take a breath for a while and to start a adventure in comic books. The Comics and Their Appeal to the youth of Today had several interviews, which revealed that comics pleasure people mainly in four aspects, the thrill of danger and adventure, story value, humor and wish fulfillment, with students. Those pleasures can help the students to relax from their stressful lives. Kinneman, 331. In addition, the publication also said that the characteristics of superhero in comic will affect people's attitude. The heroes in animation and comic are always vigorous and courageous. The reader will spontaneously mimic their characteristics and become cheerful to the hamper in life. In that case, ACG helps people release the pressure and be more optimistic. 
Secondly, animation, comic and games can help people stimulate imagination and development of children intelligence. The reason why our parents let us watch so many animations like Spongebob and Micky mouse is that cartoon and comic are kinds of educational enlightenment for us. Children learn lots of new words through them. Image and video inside the animation and games can help the development of intelligence. The publication I found whose title is Children and Videogames: Leisure Activities, Aggression, Social Integration, and School Performance shows that the image and video inside video game would stimulate multiple parts of children brain cortex which helped children to improve intelligence. The other reason is that while playing video games, children practice their coordinate skill between limbs and brains. Schie, Wiegman 1175. In addition, as a method of conveying culture and information, there is no difference between ACG and newspaper or books. In that case, some good animations, and comics will help people think and have profound effect on people. 
Although some people think that video games make people addict to them, affect their study and even make people become "social awkward", everything has multiple angles. The person I interviewed <name> had a respond to that. The majority of the students in his club PACGA which full name is Purdue animation comic and game association, Purdue animation comic and game association do not have difficulty on communicating with people and making friends. He thought ACG helped people to make friends because ACG enhanced the attractiveness of culture recognition. 
Conclusively, I believe that ACG has positive affects on people's life. As a hobby, it can help people relax and make their life colorful. In addition, it is good for the development of the intelligence of children and stimulating people's imagination. Although, ACG might have negative effect on people's social and academic aspect, if we can distribute the time appropriately, the advantages of it will exceed the disadvantages. 
Work Cited 
van Schie, E. G. M. and O, Wiegman. Children and Videogames: Leisure Activities, 	Aggression, Social Integration, and School Performance. Journal of Applied 	Social Psychology,1997. Print. 
Iman Sharif and James D. Sargent. Association Between Television, Movie, and 	Video Game Exposure and School Performance. New York:PEDIATIRCS,2006. 	Print. 
Fleda Cooper Kinneman. The Comics and Their Appeal to the Youth of Today. Ubana: 	National Council of Teachers of Englis,1943. Print. 
