P5D3 
04/20/2016 
How to deal with endangered animal problem 
	Nowadays the endangered species' issues are more and more severe. Every animal in the earth has a vital role in ecosystem, connecting with other species and earth resources. If one species is extinct, it will results in some imbalance and have significant effects throughout the rest of the ecosystem. The existence of animals influences human being's life. No animals no human being. I think we must start taking action to lessen our impacts on endangered species. Ways to stop species extinction are to protect their habitats and to educate people more about the endangered species. 
	One main reason is that protecting one's habitat is the most directly way to protect one species. Deforestation, farming, over-grazing and development result in soil erosion. Such lands eliminate animals' habitat and drive animals to dying. Destructing habitat is the quickest way to force animals to be extinct. To protect habitat, people need to protect the entire animals' communities and prevent all the activities that could damage the habitats. 
The second reason why we have to protect the animals' habitats is that their places are part of nature where human beings are destroying. So people nearby habitats act an important role on protecting habitats and animals. But overhunting always appears on some species' habitats. Because of the lack of education, the local people don't realize they are making something wrong and they are the guardian of the habitats. People in these towns are living by animals and only considering hunting for economics using. The importance of education has been showed. The government should make effort to educate local people on preventing illegal hunting. 
	The third reason is that habitat can increase nearby places' economics. Build a habitat to a tourism place, local government should ask other companies and countries to invest them. Although there are lots of barrier, from the interview with Dr. Wang, I know that some communities and countries in Africa asked China for help on rebuilding animal habitat. China was not only working on saving animal but also supporting on constructing local infrastructure. The efforts which Chinese government done built a better place for local people to study and let them to a higher education level. The investment was benefit both for great amount of habitats and animals in Africa and for local people who need to change their traditional thought on wildlife. All in all, the best ways to saving endangered animals are to protect their habitat and educate people nearby the habitat. 
	Some people and media stated that zoo is the best way to stopping animals to be extinct. Scientific American magazine announced that "Most zoos were not only great places to get up close to wildlife, but many were also doing their part to bolster dwindling populations of animals still living free in the wild." I have to say that building zoos is a good choice for saving animals, but it is not best. Zoos can create endangered species whole habitat even better than the habitat where they lived before. But the animals will not be worry about living and eating instead of by themselves. The animals in the zoo will lose their nature. Another reason I would to argue is that we don't have enough space to create zoo which can let great amount of species to be in. But more and more people in nowadays' earth means that there is no room and place for constructing zoos. Constructing a zoo consumes lots of money and spaces which is not affordable in today's situation. 
	In conclusion, the best way to protect endangered species is to protect their habitats which is the most directly way to protect one species. Increasing local economics can also be the reason t. And I consider that increasing in local people's education level is another good idea on saving wild life. 
