Homosexual Argumentative Essay 
Purdue University 
(The Final Draft) 
Homosexual Argumentative Essay 
Homosexual is a controversial topic so far. There are a lot of organizations that favor advancing homosexuals' rights. Similarly, we could hear some news about anti-gay parade from all around world. After I did lots of research about this topic, I think people should understand and respect the homosexuals rather than being anti-homosexuals. I will demonstrate my opinion in sight of health infection of homosexuals, what influences homosexuals' sexual orientation and social problems caused by homosexuals. 
First of all, homosexuals are not different from anyone as normal humans. They just have same-sex partners. Of course, some may say the existence of homosexuals would increase the rate of some disease infections, which demonstrates homosexuals is a high-risk group of HIV and some other sexually transmitted diseases. However, the infections occurring is not because of their promiscuities but because of the way of intercourse of the homosexuals, which they have sex in anus. In addition, referring to CDC (Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention), if homosexuals take protection when they have sex, the rate of being infected will be decreasing a lot. Homosexuals can choose less risky sexual behaviors, such as oral sex that is much safer, rather than anal sex that has high risk of HIV transmission. What's more, using consistent condom is 76% effective in preventing new HIV infections. As a result, if the homosexuals take appropriate prevention measures, the risk will be significantly reduced and even as the as the straights. The homosexuals are not promiscuous as how people consider (Dr. <name> , personal communication, March, 2015.). Actually, they have the same sexual attitude with straight people. In average, homosexual people just have one more sexual partner than straight people. 
Secondly, homosexuals do not have chance to choose their orientations because they are inborn. Based on what Dr. <name> said, homosexuality is resulted by biological factors, such as hormones and genes. Their genes determine their sexual orientations. Homosexuality is born not made. Once they were born in gay, they almost always remain homosexuals. If you are a heterosexual it is impossible for you to fall in love with same-sex person because your sexual orientation. If someone compels you to get married with a same-sex person, how is your feeling? Similarly, homosexuals will get the same painful feeling if they have to get married with opposite-sex persons. In addition, the part of environment factors does not matter in sexual orientation determination because there is no stable statistics being found to show the relationship between homosexuality and environments. It's hard and rare to change their sexual orientation as they growing up. Thus, homosexual is not a sin. People should not condemn them. 
Lastly, if people do not accept them and consider that homosexuals are monsters, it would cause many tragedies of society. The first family problem is "xinghun", which means ritual marriage reported in China's gay fake marriage (Joanna Chiu, 2013). Because of cultural background, the generality tends to be conservatism in the Eastern traditions compared with Western culture. Consequently, it is difficult for parents to accept the truth that their children are homosexuals. Some homosexuals will get marriaged with lesbians to cheat their parents but they live apart with their spouses. What is more, many homosexuals who were not attracted by opposite sex at all, they chose to get married and have kids only because they were afraid of disappointing their parents. Both of these behaviors lead them to live in misery. In case their parents eventually find the fact, they may be more disappointed, won't they? The second one is that the insights from others will cause some young homosexuals who are still in school to suicide. The rate of committing to suicide for homosexual teens is five times more than heterosexual teens. The incident of Tyler Clementi is a case in point. Tyler's roommate installed a webcam on Tyler's computer and spied on Tyler. His roommate found that Clementi kissed with his male partner and posted text to state that Tyler is a gay on the Internet. Finally, Tyler Clementi jumped into George Washington river to death due to this malicious bullying. Besides the instance of Tyler, many other homosexual teens are tempted in school. A lot of suicide incidents of homosexual teens are reported because people around them do not accept them and think that they are heterodox. This argument around homosexual teens gives them stress and influences their mental health. They commit to suicide due to their failure to resist police pressures. 
All in all, homosexuals are as the same as anyone who is living in this planet. They are not different. If they take proper measures to protect themselves when they have sex, it hardly infected by their partners who are the carries of SIDs or HIV. Homosexuals are innocent for their sexual orientation since they are inborn. It is offered by nature and God. They do not have to change because you cannot ask someone normal who is sinless and does not make any mistakes to change something. It is an unfair treatment for them. For the sake of avoiding the tragedies of life like Tyler Clementi, people should be considerate to homosexuals. Even if you still cannot accept them for some reasons, please do not sneer at their sexual orientations. Conclusively, homosexuals need to be respected and understood and people should give them free living space and tolerance. 
Reference: 
Zi Heng Lim. (04.11.2013). For Gay Chinese, Getting Married Means Getting Creative. The Atlantic. Retrieved from http://www.theatlantic.com/china/archive/2013/04/for-gay-chinese-getting- married-means-getting-creative/274895/ 
Ekstrand, Maria L., & Stall, Ron D., & Paul, Jay P., & Osmond, Dennish H., &Coates, Thomas J. (1999). Gay man report high rates of unprotected anal sex with partners of unknown or discordant HI status. AIDS Epidemiology and Social: Orange Papers, 13. Retrieved from http://journals.lww.com/aidsonline/Fulltext/1999/08200/Gay_men_report_high_rates_of_unprotect ed_anal_sex.13.aspx 
Joanna Chiu. (2013). China's gay fake marriage. The Daily Beast. Retrieved from http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/04/19/china-s-fake-gay-marriages.html 
No author. (2014). National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention. Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention. Retrieved from http://www.cdc.gov/msmhealth/HIV.html 
the Suicide of Tyler Clementi. (n.d.). Retrieved April 11, 2015 from the Suicide of Tyler Clementi Wiki: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suicide_of_Tyler_Clementi 
Jennifer Welsh. (April 18, 2011). Homosexual Teen Suicide Rates Raised in Bad Environment. Livescience. Retrieved from 
http://www.livescience.com/13755-homosexual-lgb-teen-suicide-rates-environments.html 
