Multilingual Environment for Children 
Introduction 
Nowadays, multilingualism seems to become a social phenomenon because of the globalization. Therefore, many parents are willing to raise their children in multi languages, in order to make them acquire additional languages and make them more competitive in the future. However, some people suggest multilingualism can also bring negative effects for the children, and we should not promote multilingualism for children. Through my research on this topic, I believe children grow up in multilingual environment have more benefits compare with their monolingual peers. Multilingualism for children should be promoted. In this essay, I am going to talk about the possible benefits and drawbacks caused by multilingual environment, and the methods to raise children to be multilingual efficiently. 
Positive effects brought by multilingual environment 
Many people believe multilingual environment could make children's brains more active, therefore they would be much smarter than their monolingual children. Some researchers suggest compared to their monolingual peers, the bilingual children may be better at verbal working memory performance (Engel de Abreu, 2011, p534), and, some suggest they may perform better on tasks about attention (Videsott, Della Rosa, Wiater, Franceschini & Abutalebi, 2012, p893). According to Professor Benedicto (2015), almost all the research had shown that multilingual children have cognitive advantages (personal communication). The results of the experiment conducted by Videsott, Della Rosa, Wiater, Franceschini and Abutalebi show that the all three sections of the Attentional Network Test (ANT) were influenced by the effect of the multilingual ability (Videsott, Della Rosa, Wiater, Franceschini & Abutalebi, 2012, p893). Videsott et al. (2012) stated that multilingual children's alerting network systems are highly affected by their linguistic ability. Accordingly, they noted that the ability of cognition could be decided by the proficiency of children's linguistic abilities (p894), which shows multilingual children have cognitive advantages. On the other hand, the experiment done by Engel de Abreu suggests that the development of working memory is not affected by the bilingualism of early childhood (Engel de Abreu, 2011, p535). However that may only because bilingual children do not have the chance to contact with one single language as much as their monolingual peers do (Engel de Abreu, 2011, p535). 
Negative influences of multilingual environment 
Although multilingualism, as one result of globalization, has become more important for the future of children today, some assumptions suggest there may be some language disorders related to children's development. One example is multilingualism might put too much pressure on a child's underdeveloped brain; hence, multilingualism may cause language disorders for them, such as specific language impairment (SLI). SLI is defined as "those with a language quotient more than one standard deviation below the mean and below the general developmental quotient in children with normal general developmental quotient, but without neurological or other organic diseases" (Cheuk, Wong & Leung, 2005, p303). Some researchers conducted a study on the <place> Chinese children who had been diagnosed with SLI to find out if multilingual home environment would cause SLI. The results of the study showed a connection between exposure to multilingual and students with SLI. However according to Professor Benedicto (2015), there is no negative effect of multilingualism (personal communication). SLI is not related to multilingualism, it is more related to biology (Benedicto, 2015, personal communication). In addition, the result of the study conducted by Cheuk, Wong and Leung also suggested that children who do not suffer SLI, are not affected by their multilingual environment (Cheuk et al., 2005, p311). Which shows multilingual environment is not the cause of the SLI. 
How to raise children to be multilingual efficiently? 
When children are raised in a multilingual environment, they would acquire the languages automatically. However in order to have natural multi languages acquisition, the children needed to be exposed to multi languages daily at enough quantity. The exact amount has not been determined yet, but the amount of exposure to each languages should be almost equal (Benedicto, 2015, personal communication). Professor Benedicto (2015) also mentioned our linguistic abilities are better when we were younger. Therefore children also should be exposed to multi languages as young as possible (personal communication). 
Conclusion 
Multilingual environment benefits children. Multilingual children tend to have cognitive advantages such as better attention and working memory. Multilingualism for children should be promoted since so far there are only benefits but no drawbacks. In order to raise children to be multilingual efficiently and gain those benefits, parents should provide children environments where the children could be exposed to multi languages daily at enough quantity. 
