4/12/2015	 
P5D1 
Street Dance and Young People 
According to my interview with Professor <Name> in Purdue Black Cultural Center, hip hop culture has four elements which is DJ, Graffiti, MC, and Breaking. Breaking is one types of street dancing. There are lots of different styles when referring to it. Being one of the constituents in hip hop culture, street dancing is getting popular among American's society. More and more street dancers open their own studios and start teaching people how to dance. In my opinion, street dance is beneficial to youth generation. It provides not only positive but also optimistic lifestyle to teenagers. 
Street dance is an activity that requires your body to move intensively. Before you dance smoothly, you have to learn the basic body language of street dance which includes step, wave, rolling, jumping, etc. Each pose or movement have different meaning according to what dancers want to imply. Moreover, people can create their own body language if they want to show their unique personal feelings. Just like another form of exercise, people sweat, jump, and feel tired when dance to the music. It trains your muscle so you can do more difficult movements. It can be a habit for students to enjoy in their leisure time. Under the circumstance, street dancing can help teenagers to release the pressure, to express their feeling without causing any damage to society. 
It is better to describe street dance a culture than an exercise or an activity. It provides an environment for people inside the culture to enjoy. Although it is not hard to understand dancing, but you can always find historical meanings in this culture, and the more you discover, the more you find that there are lots of things you don't know. So people will spend a lot of time practicing, discovering, and learning. For youth, it is advantageous because some people only be involved in bad activities when they have too much free time. However, street dancing offers the condition to make people focus on practicing which reduces the likelihood of teenagers doing harmful activities. 
Some people put stereotypes on the street dance. They think it has a lot of relationships with drugs, smokes, gangs, etc. I agree that there are some inner dangers in this culture, and I understand that parents would worry about their children. However, people can always choose to accept or deny doing these unhealthy activities. It is not a requirement for people to learn dancing. 
In conclusion, street dance is an alternative form of exercise and can help people to release the pressure. It provides the environment for learners to pay attention to practicing, and also decreases the chance to do harmful things. Street dancing can make people more healthy, positive and optimistic. 
