It is universally acknowledged that there exists an intense discussion among people as to the issue whether people should keep dogs as their pets or not. Some people claim that the dogs are dirty and noisy, it's difficult for them to imagine keeping pets. Oppositely, some people don't think so. However, I'm strongly support the point that people should keep pets as their pets. In order to examine the validity of my points of views, further details will list below. 
Turning first to the aspect of one's daily routine, pets serve as a catalyst for coloring the life. In recent years, considerable leap in science and technology, an increasing number of people are faced with lingering loneliness and indifference. Dogs, supposed to share the moments of joy as well as times of difficulty, play an indispensable role in our life. To some extent, dogs can be friends to the human beings. Spending time with pets, therefore, provides us with precious opportunities to confide sorrow. Dog is someone who change our lives and being a part of our lives; is someone who make us laugh; is someone who convinces us that there really is an unlocked door just waiting for you to open it; In this case, people can establish harmonious relationship with dogs. To illustrate this, one need look no further than the example of myself. I have kept a dog since I was four or five years old. It was a very cute and obedient dog, it always stayed besides me and watched me to do everything. At that moment, I thought it was one of family members like my brother or sister. Anytime, as long as it stayed with me, I feel safety surround me. Gradually, I treated it as my best friend because it played with me every time and took care of me. 
To add more credibility, another aspect that cannot be ignored is that keeping dogs as pets exert a positive impact on lifting out of pressure. Relieving stress adds much flavor to our daily life, refresh the soul, thus striking a proper balance between work, study and leisure. Dogs serves as an aide for individuals to put endless job tasks or homework aside and give ourselves a feast to eyes. In that case, chances are good that people can lift themselves out of high stress and get away from the daily grind. A recent survey conducted by the statistic bureau indicates that once after keeping a dog, 64 percent of individuals get their annoyance confided and mental tension smoothed, which in turn spurs a vigorous mentality in the next round. In brief, it is no exaggeration to say that keeping dog as pets enables individuals for self-relaxation. 
Meanwhile, dogs are also very useful to people in normal life. As an important part of a family, dogs are very obedient and willing to help master to do everything. Not only because people give food to them, it is because they treat people as their real friends, so they are willing to do many stuff to help people. For example, sometimes after people teach dogs how to take newspaper and pick up something people need, and next time they can remember what did people teach them last time and do it. After that, people even only send a signal to dogs, they will immediately do it. In a word, it is indisputable that dog is a wonderful complement to our daily lives. 
There is no doubt that some people will think the dog is dirty and noisy sometimes, and if we are lack of experience, keeping pets is not easy at all. I would refute that. Through keeping pets, we can totally expand our scope of knowledge. The benefits that broad knowledge has to offer include stimulating our intellect, extending our vision, and helping us fulfill our potential. It's truth that we know nothing about how to keep pets at the beginning. While keeping it, we will be confronted with a wide range of problems, which we never thought of before. However, solving these problems will enhance the likelihood that we will become mature and independent as well as boost our competitiveness. Finally, we will broaden horizons due to our strengthened comprehensive quality. 
To put all into one nutshell, there is no rose without thorns, keeping pets has no exception. But having considered the above-mentioned factor, we can say without hesitation that dogs is of great significance in our lives. From my own perspective, the merits of keeping dogs as pets far outweigh than the demerits. The dog can be a friend of us, gets us through the hard time, sad time and even the confused time. Always give us a sense of safety and dependency. 
