Argumentative essay 
11/24/2015[AL1] 
First draft[AL2] 
Thesis statement 
Alternative energy is a better source energy than fossil fuel because it is more environmentally friendly, renewable, cheaper, and a better investment for the future 
Opposition 
Alternative energy is not a better source of energy. Alternative energy such as solar, hydro, wind are insufficient to meet the current level of demand for energy. Today, less than 5% of the energy are produced by sources other than fossil fuel. This means that even less than 5% are produced by either solar, hydro, or wind. With 95% coming from fossil fuel, to say that technological advancements will be able to amend for more production of alternative energy is not viable. Secondly, alternative energy is too expensive. Technological advancements always have limits, and to hope for technology that makes alternative energy is not favorable. We often forget about how even if there is technology to make alternative energy more cost efficient than fossil fuel, the development towards that goal will cost lots of money; just like how we developed fossil fuel to the state it is today. 
Support paragraph 1 
Alternative energy is more environmentally friendly than fossil fuel. As we all know, fossil fuel such as natural gas, coal emit carbon dioxide in to the atmosphere. What this does is that it makes the atmosphere become more thick, which traps the sunlight that entered the Earth. On the other hand, alternative energy makes energy through environmentally friendly resources such as water, sunlight, or wind. For solar, the panels trap the energy stored in sunlight, and converts it into energy that we use. Secondly, when wind blows, it spins the turbines that triggers and turns a shaft that is linked with a generator that creates energy. Thirdly, hydro power creates energy through the power of running water. When water passes through turbines, it spins the turbines that are connected to a generator which converts it to energy. By developing renewable energy , we can look decrease our dependency on fossil fuel, limit emission of carbon dioxide, and increase our reliance on renewable energy which will last for a significantly longer amount of time. 
Support paragraph 2 
Another advantage of alternative energy is that the resources mentioned above are infinite. Unlike fossil fuel, which as we dig dipper and dipper to get access to, are subject to eventual depletion. However, natural resources such as wind, water, and solar are infinite. If we are to rely too heavily on fossil fuel, the depletion of fossil fuel would bring chaos to the world. Relying on a source that is due to run out is not a good phenomenon, because sometime in the future, we would need to make further adjustment to cope without it. That is why renewable energy such as wind, solar, or water are ideal as alternatives to fossil fuel. Natural resources are not going to go away anytime soon. There is always wind the blows, the sun emits a lot sunlight, and water is also a much more reliable source than fossil fuel. If we slowly make the adjustment to switch over the energy that are created from renewable sources, it would be better for the future. 
Support paragraph 3 
Better investment for future 
Support paragraph 4 
Cheaper cost 
Support paragraph 5 
Create more green jobs 
Rebuttal 
Support: Just like how we were able to develop fossil fuel as it is today, there is no reason why technology will develop alternative energy to become more viable. 
Once if becomes convenient and reliable, it will be able to meet the demand 
Elaboration 
There were times when energy produced by fossil fuel was not available for everyone. Just like that, alternative energy is in the process of developing, and it will become the main source of energy. 
Example 
Wind and Solar energy are the best examples of technological advancements. The technological advancements of solar and wind have made the turbines and solar cells much mores smaller, and efficient. 
[AL1] 
[AL2R1] 
