P5D1 
11/18/2015 
Student success 
Nowadays, a higher education is becoming more and more important for people which can lead to a better job and more comfortable life. Therefore, people put more emphasize on student success in college. And there are lots of suggestions and advices on how to be successful in college. Some people thought communication is the most important thing since students should learn how to get along with other people. While some people considered academic learning as a more important factor. In my opinion, what really matters is communication. Student should talk more and join more activities if they can. 
Student need to communicate with others a lot of time while studying in the college. In my interview with <name>, a graduation from Purdue University. He said, "students need to talk with their professor or advisor before choosing a major or deciding what class to take", he added, "whenever students have any problem in their subjects, they can talk with other students or find professor for help". All of these above require students to talk with others so we find communication is necessary. <name> also suggested student should use their rest time to pay attention to what happened around them and the world. I think this is also a kind of communication. 
According to the article I found, "What Matters to Student Success: the promise of high-impact practices" by George D. Kuh. The author thought the involvement in the "right" kinds of activities is important for a student to be successful in the college. He suggested students should spend their time and energy on educationally purposeful activities. George D. Kuh said students should talk about substantive matters outside of class, study together. What's more, he asked college should using effective educational practices to induce students to do the right things. 
Therefore, we can find out that communication is such important for a student to be successful in college. There are also some other views about this. Some people think student should put all of their energy on academic study so that they can have a better job in the future. However, we can easily find that some subjects we learn in the college are irrelevant with our job. But if you learn how to communicate, it can help you a lot. You can have a nice relationship with your colleagues and have a better performance in some activities. There are also some people said that it can be a waste of time if student join those activities. It is true that if students join too much activities will affect their study but they just need to order their time and balance it. Therefore, that is not a problem. 
In a word, learn to communicate with others and then join some "right" activities can help students a lot to be successful in college. By doing these, they can handle with some difficulties with others and then improve their personalities and all of these can benefit them in the future. 
