Date: 04/16/2016. 
Uber, a game-changer or a law-broker? 
Taxicab, a very familiar transportation tool which almost everyone needs it to transit from location A to location B. However, as the invention of internet cloud service and smartphones, the taxicab industry is also changing. Uber, an international transportation network company, gives people another method to call a taxi on their smartphones, and it's getting more and more popular world-wide. Nevertheless, those traditional taxicab companies start to feel being threatened, because their status in taxicab industry is gradually replaced by Uber and other ride-sharing companies. Not surprisingly, several governments categorized Uber as out-lawed, and a lot of traditional taxicab drivers have protested and claimed Uber as an "illegal" taxi company. Now, as a frequent user of Uber, I have to state that Uber is a modern model of taxicab companies, which should not be illegal because of its popularity, environmental beneficial and helpful to the economy. 
Admittedly, there are plenty of people who think Uber is unreliable, and traditional taxicabs could be more helpful than Uber. Furthermore, people who oppose Uber, always stated three problems of Uber. First Uber is out-lawed, because according to the law, no taxicab drivers can pre-arrange any pick-up location with costumers. Second, since Uber doesn't interview any of its drivers, so it can endanger costumers' safety during the ride. Third, financially Uber is losing its money to deal with a lot of fines and lawsuit, therefore how can people trust a company that could face bankruptcy in any time. Undoubtedly, these three concerns are real, but I believe Uber still has a lot more advantages than traditional taxicabs. So I will address these three problems in the following paragraphs. 
First of all, unquestionably, safety is usually concerned by all of us. So it is reasonable for people to doubt the safety of products or services, and I understand that. However, when some people say Uber could endanger costumers during the ride, because Uber does not interview any of its drivers. I have to disagree with this saying. According to Uber's web page, "Ridesharing and livery drivers in the U.S. are screened through a process that includes country, federal, and multi-state criminal background checks. Uber also reviews drivers' motor vehicle records throughout their time driving with Uber". More than that, before people get in to the Uber taxi, people can see the photo of the drivers and the service rating. If some people do not like their drivers, they can change other drivers until the satisfaction being accomplished. Thus, do we have any more reasons to say Uber is unsafe? The answer is absolutely no. On the other hand, there are actually reasons to say Uber is actually safe. The first reason is that Uber already have those drivers' personal information, although Uber does not interview any of its drivers. Second, costumers have the freedom to choose their drivers, which means Uber enabled us to choose the wanted vehicle type and drivers, and we don't have this kind of ability in other service industries. All in all, people shall not mainly worry about their personal safety, when they are using Uber, because there is background-check that was conducted by Uber on every driver, and people also have the ability to avoid danger by service rating or drivers' driving records. 
Secondly, some people always say Uber is illegal, because no taxi drivers should be able to pre-arrange the pick-up locations with costumers. However, when we talk about the legality of Uber, we should considering about is Uber breaking the "rule" or breaking the law? According to Huebert, some established player will work with the government on enacting regulations to keep the new player out, therefore some companies like Uber will face this kind problem Para.1. For instance, Uber came to Chicago on 2011, and it became popular immediately in town. However, some traditional taxi companies suited Uber, saying Uber violated the regulations. "Coincidentally", the Chicago city's Department of Business Affair and Costumer Protection proposed a new regulation which prohibited most vehicles other than taxies picking up costumers Para, 3. Now as an interferer, Uber come the market to seek more and more market share, which have triggered someone's nerve. I think it's safe to say that Uber didn't break the law, but Uber had already broke the rules that made by those "rule makers". On the other hand, more importantly, Uber is welcomed by a huge amount of people, and democratically speaking, if something is accepted by a greater amount of people, government should accept those things too. Shortly, those policy makers should accept Uber as a modern transportation tool which can boost our economy, and government should follow people's wish of using Uber. Even more, if governments can accept Uber, there would be a beneficial influence for us. 
If Uber is legal, it could be very beneficial to the environment. As a matter of fact, parking and traffic jam are really huge issues for every driver, especially for people who live in big cities like New York or Beijing. However, if there is certain amount of Uber, none of these problems could happen. Because, first of all, Uber drivers do not need to park. Second, when people start to use Uber rather than driving their own vehicles, the number of cars on the road could be reduced. In the nutshell, if a company has a lot of popularity, helpful to the economy and environmentally beneficial, I cannot find any reason to not to legalize that company. 
Finally, some investors think, including my father, that Uber does not have a bright future in financial area, because Uber is losing too much money. Unsuspectedly, according to Uber's financial report, it had losses of four hundred and seventy million dollars on sale of four hundred and fifteen million dollars, and its losses seems like keep growing recently. However, Uber is a young company, and it is expanding its business so rapidly, which can cost a lot of money. According to a news which posted in The Verge, In United Kingdom, Uber is even paying their driver's fines which were caused by the illegality of Uber. Thus, it is reasonable for Uber to lose its revenue, because Uber has to use a lot of money to against its opponents who defined the illegality of Uber, on the other hand, Uber also has to pay for their drivers fines to encourage their drivers to keep driving. Facebook was losing money; Ebay was losing money; Apple was losing money. I can list ten or more major companies which have been through deficit to expand its business, to invent new product, to change the world, and now they are making huge fortune that we can barely imagine. According to Fortune and CNN Money, Tesla is losing more than four-thousand dollars on every Model S it sells, and Airbnb is losing two hundred million dollars in 2015. Thus they need the time to grow stronger and stronger. Shortly. I think Uber is losing money for reasons. It is like a child can cost parent's a lot of money for tuitions, but when that kid grow up, he or she can make more money, 
To conclude, trying to improve the taxicab industry is what I believe Uber is attempting to do. Uber improved taxicabs to be more convenient and more efficient; Uber changed the way of calling a taxi; Uber gave costumers the freedom to choose their favorite type of taxicabs. Without a doubt, I believe Uber could be the future of taxicab company because we all live in a world of internet which improved a lot of things like cellphone, computer and watch, and now internet enabled Uber to improve the taxicab industry, and Uber is going to achieve something great. 
Reference 
https://www.uber.com/safety 
Huebert, J. SO, WHAT REALLY HAPPENED WITH THE GOVERNMENT VS. UBER?. Technori. Retrieved from http://technori.com/2013/02/3289-startup-innovation-government-vs-uber/ 
Sara, O. 2015, June 27. 'Crazy money'- airbnb valued at over $25 billion .CNN Money. Retrieved from http://money.cnn.com/2015/06/27/technology/airbnb-funding-valuation- 
update/ 
John, K. 2015, August 10. This is the whopping amount tesla loses on every model s. Fortune. Retrieved from http://fortune.com/2015/08/10/tesla-money-lost-model-s/ 
