Can self-motivation influence us? 
What is self-motivation? From the psychologists' perspective, It is an ability to do what needs to be done, without influence from other people or situations. Also, it could be a key life skill which all the leaders think highly of. However, when it comes to our daily life we may feel confused whether self-motivation can control our mentally and physically behavior or not, in other words, can self-motivation influence us? In my opinion, I hold the view that self-motivation influence us in most of time. 
One article posted on Iowa University page said Motivation is the combination of desire, values, and beliefs that drives you to take action. when we combine these three factors with ourselves, this kind of motivation could be called self-motivation. These three motivating factors, are at the root of why people behave the way they do. Because people ultimately control their values, beliefs, and desires, they can influence their motivations. This means, if we consider something important and assign value to it, we are more likely to do the work it takes to attain the goal. When self-motivation originates from an internal source and is combined with a realistic goal and circumstance, the odds of a good outcome are greatly increased. In order to get motivated and stay motivated, the article also provided us with three methods: 1) identify our values, beliefs, and desires, 2) recognize our strengths and weaknesses and use this information to establish realistic goals, 3) understand the role of personal circumstance, and 4) realize that success is the merger of all three factors. Judging from this article we can easily draw a conclusion that self-motivation is such a necessary skill that influence us. 
Here is another article named "The Secret of Effective Motivation", published on the New York Times in July 2014 by Amy Wrzesniewski and Barry Schwartz. The author noted that there exist two kinds of motives, the The first one is internal motive. It is defined to be a motivate which the goal of one activity has an inherent relationship with the initial activity. The other one is instrumental motive, which plays a helpful role in motivating people. Conversely, there is no inherent relation between the goal of one activity and the initial activity. In order to compare two kinds of motives, they analyzed data drawn from 11,320 cadets at West Point. The purpose of the survey is to know how much the motives influence the subjects' decision to attend the school. The results came that those who really desire to attend the West Point (internal issues) are more likely to graduate and become commissioned officers. Those without internal motives are less likely to graduate. Remarkably, they found cadets with strong internal and strong instrumental motives for attending West Point performed worse on every measure than those who with strong internal motives but weak instrumental ones. The implications of the results are significant, that is to say, no matter when people performs a task well, that is the consequence of both internal motives and instrumental motives. But the internal motives play a more important role. Judging from this experiment, we can not ignore the impact of self-motivation and there is no denying the fact that self-motivation is a positive skill. 
However, here are some people who hold opposite opinion, since here is another issue rather than self-motivation that help them to obtain energy. One psychology professor once told when somebody encouraged you, gave you good feedback, told you to try again, and keep going. Then you can be motivated. During his class he taught his students to stay with people who are enthusiastic. Life will be easier when people keep the company of enthusiastic people and try to avoid negative people and seek out positive and well motivated people. It is a lot easier to be motivated if the people around you are positive. These knowledge are according to the external factors, Also when we finally attach our goals, these kind of good feelings are from somebody else but not from internal motivation, so it could not be the result of self-motivation. 
