P5d1_arp 
November 20, 2015 
Depression among Students Abroad Should be Paying Attention to 
International students are seems like successful when they are at school. In other hands, they have to be successful in the situation of studying abroad. However, I believe that people overlooked the inner mind of students abroad for too long. They overestimate the psychological qualities of international students. In my perspective, we should be attaching more importance to this special group. The uppermost mental illness among them-depression, should be pay attention to right now and be address with some efficient approaches. This article will use some opinions of Les Mc Cabe and Robert L. Quigley, MD, D. Phil to against people who didn't realize or admit the serious level of mental health among international students, then quote Shreya Paudel's example about how certain questions could lead to such situation. 
A large number of researches shown the increasing trend of depression suffered from college students, then discussed the negative influences caused by sudden change of the surrounding. (Les Mc Cabe. 2013) Feelings of lose and anxiety resulted from separation from family and friends, Long-timed traveling brought significant stress on students' bodies and their mind, even made them vulnerable in a long period and various differences on actual living conditions taxed the physical stress in depth. Some people may said that students went abroad can make more friends, which is a good opportunity for them to be outgoing. Nevertheless, social pressure combined with rigorous academic programs made students who were experiencing the socioemotional development hardly found the sense of self-identity and confidence. Such age factor was also a highlight point in Mc Cabe's article. These analyses offered enough factors that may imperil the mental health of international students easily. Demonstrations above were provided in details in Robert's research report as well. Roberts claimed the dark aspect of studying abroad. The transition of major life exacerbated the psychological difficulties of international students. Students in such ages lacked the emotional and cross-culture coping skills, which could help them to adapt the new environment. (Robert L. 2013) Some people wonder that there must be some precautionary measures students had before they went abroad. While, in my opinion, students always expected some positive side of studying abroad, it seemed like everything would become successful after they chosen such glorious study style. Obviously, all of the actual life after they went abroad won't match with their original expectation. This situation was always lead to a great psychological gap and brought depressive emotions to students. Therefore, I strongly against the idea being that people who ignore the mental health of international students; because the environment changing brings a negative influence on students to a large extent. 
Although the depression probability among international students were in a rise number at the moment, there were still some people doubted that international students had enough financial ability to address this problem, because students who could afford such expensive tuition must have a well-off family universally. And that seemed like a piece of cake when they were facing the situation of suffering from the depression. This idea was confuted by Shreya's research report with a certain example-- International students whose parents must scrimp and save to afford the tuition of their children. These poor students who faced a long commute by limited finance. Another horrible fact is that they bear the heavy pressure of the increasing cost of living and subsisting, but couldn't get excellent education as they thought, because they can only offer a little range of pubic school, which only needed low-priced tuition and most of these public school didn't have enough financial supported by the government to provide better education. In this case, these poor students became the most possible ones who may suffer from the mental illness, such as depression, anxiety, addiction, eating disorder, obsessive compulsiveness, and others. Hence, I believe that paying attention to the mental health of international students is a worthy step at the moment. 
Furthermore, speaking of the aspect of government and school, some people may think that it is kinds of extra service to care about mental health of students. However, from my perspective, prevent students' psychological health is the duty of school and government. This idea was supported by Robert's research report with his personal experience. He saw a suicide of an international student caused by the lack of professional techniques and properly care for them, even after this student died. This incident touched him deeply. He claims that the most critical point for international students achieve the success of study abroad is the spirit of scholastic duty of care. No matter which aspect of the duty problem we consider, moral side, professional side, financial side and so on, school and government should take on this heavy responsibility. If no one care about this problem, even the school and government, with more and more news about the suicide caused by depression of international students, is there anyone else want to pursue their academic life abroad anymore? The answer is apparently. 
With all the information above, we could grasp the conclusion easily, that is, considering about the environment, financial and obligation of school and government, it is very necessary for us to pay attention to the depression among students abroad. International students are exposed in a danger situation, which may bring them heavy pressure directly. According to the future life of students and harmonious campus environment, we'd better actualize this idea first. 
Reference 
Les Mc Cabe. (2013). Mental Health and Study Abroad: Responding to the concern. Education Abroad. 
Robert L. Quigley, MD, D. Phil. (2013). The Dark Side of Studying Abroad -- and How to Address it. The Huffington Post. 
Shreya Paudel. (2013). Poor, Isolated, and Far from Home: What It's Like to be an International Student. www.theguardian.com 
