P5d3 
04/20/2016 
Will Machine take over all the jobs in the future? 
	In 2016, we can see that many jobs, ranging from industrial products assembly to accounting, have already been either fully or semi replaced by machines. While machine is trying to make our life easier in every aspect, it, however, has never stopped making us "lazier". Will machine take over all the jobs from us in the future? This is the question that I want to know. After I did some research online and interviewed Tarang Khanna, the President of the Purdue Windows Develop Club, I believe that Machine is able to take over all the jobs from us someday. My suggestion is that we should be prepared for the benefits and, especially, the side effects that the transformation age is going to influence us. 
	The first reason I believe machine is able to take over all the jobs from us is that they can be smarter than human beings. Since machine "listens" to human's instruction, which is composed of machine language, formed by 10101 code, no other distraction can interfere with it while is following the instruction. Unlike human beings, who can easily be distracted by negative emotions, like feelings about sad, tired, fear, hopeless and guilty, machine can be more focus. With those negative emotions, we may procrastinate about our jobs. Besides, machine can finish a task much efficient. For example, it only takes a calculator a few seconds to calculate a complex operation, which will take humans days to do. Sending the signal to each code and following the mathematic instruction is all that it needs to do. Once a robot, that can learn stuff just like human do, was invented, it can learn very fast just like the way it calculates math. In an interview with <Name>, he mentioned the movie, Chappie, which is also the name of a robot in the movie, were activated as a baby, who were curious and scared of the new world. Unlike other normal robots, he can learn and he learnt it very fast compared to humans. He started calling his name "Chappie" and "mom" after one day. 
The second reason I believe that Machines are capable of talking over all of our jobs is that it is much powerful than any of us. "Machines can be so much powerful than human muscles.", just like <Name> emphasized in his interview. The power does not only mean intelligence; it also stands for strong. The motors in the joints of robots and machines can be very strong that human could never reach. A very strong man can lift a weight maximum at 155 pounds, according to livestrong.com. However, one electronic motor can lift so much more than just 155 pounds. Therefore, the decrement of the expecting jobs opportunities in the future is very possible. In the article "The onrushing waves", the author believes that even though technological advancements in the past have provided us with more jobs. Taking into account the computer developer, software programmers and robots engineers, it is very much possible new advancements will take over most jobs. The writer illustrates that new technologies help people perform their jobs more efficiently and thereby decrease the number of employees a company needs to get the same amount of work done is inevitable. 
Many people may argue that machine won't take over all the jobs in the future because once we allowed them to do so, the robots will occupy our resources and eliminate us from the Earth in the history. I have to admit that I am concerning about this also. Robots can be very dangerous once it starts thinking. Personally, I believe that we shouldn't worry about it so much since our technology will have large improvement in the future also. However, it is not inevitable according to <Name>. In his internview, he said that "Although it sounds horrible that machines may eliminate humans from the Earth someday, but it doesn't mean it's not inevitable. Don't forget about that they are created by us. If we can build them, we can also control them. At the time when we are able to make AI, we must already have a very strong security system that can avoid robots from hurting people. The side effect, I would say, is more diabetes, obesity or related health issues would occur to us, since robots would do everything we ask for." 
All in all, despite the side effects and impossible task that may interfere people's imagination for the future. We should admit that machine can be so much smarter than human beings without a doubt. Also it can finish a task much faster than us since the electro signals is pure and nothing else can interfere the signals to going through all the digital parts. I believe that the machine has the ability to take over all the jobs from us in the future. Also, we, however, need to prepare for the both benefits and the side effects that the machine ago is going to bring to us. 
Resources: 
Owens, T. O. (2014). How Much Weight Can the Average Man Lift? Retrieved 
from: http://www.livestrong.com/article/380767-how-much-weight-can-the-average-man-lift/ 
