Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
November 15th 2015 
Consideration of GPA in College Applications 
	A lot of international student athletes come to play sports in U.S. colleges. Many factors are considered when international high school student athletes are applying to U.S. colleges. These include high school GPA, standardized tests, and athletic ability. Having both academic and athletic requirements is important, but I do not believe that the GPA of international student athletes should be a factor when applying to a college. This is for two reasons. For one, GPA is not a direct reflection of intelligence. Secondly, different high schools have different ratings, which means that a 3. 0 at one school is held to a different standard than a 3. 0 at other school. 
	As mentioned, GPA is not a good indicator of the intelligence that U.S. colleges are looking for. A study done by Angela Duckworth and Martin Seligman in the Psychological Science journal found that correlation between intelligence quotient (IQ) and GPA was only 32 percent (Duckworth and Selingman 2005). This low correlation proves that GPA is a poor reflection of intelligence. GPA depends on a lot of other things such as work ethic, teachers, and various situations that may be different for each person. GPA may not be a good indicator of intelligence or hard work. For example, someone may have exams for a class from the previous year, which helps them do well, even if they do not really understand the material. Specifically, student athletes may be dedicating most of their time to their sport, which may prevent them from getting all of the work done. This does not mean that they are not intelligent, and is another reason why GPA should not be considered in the application process. Another reason why GPA does not directly represent intelligence is that it is based on the entire four years of high school. At the beginning of the high school, students are 14 to 15 years old and may be too immature to put education as a priority. If they get really low GPA in their first year or two, they will have difficulty raising it. Even if they start doing better in school, their overall GPA will still be low because of their mistakes at the beginning. All of these are reasons why GPA does not reflect intelligence. 
	The second reason why GPA should not be considered is that high schools in different countries have different scales. Each school has a different level of student performance and varying difficulty of classes. For example, in the Czech Republic, there are different levels of high schools. There are ones primarily for students who are going to college, in which the classes are more challenging and it is harder to get a good GPA. There are also normal public high schools that are targeted for students going to work after graduation, where classes are less difficult, and it is easier to get a high GPA. For example, someone who was not sure about going to college, might not have chosen the high school for "pre-college" students and would have gone to a normal public school instead. However, if the student later decided to apply to U.S. colleges, his or her GPA would be compared to those who attended more difficult high schools. Different types and levels of high schools make it difficult to generalize and compare the GPA of students across the nation as well as internationally. In addition, J. Arthur Boyle from the University of Denver said, "it definitely does not acknowledge outside factors such as the massive role of teachers (not just in instruction, but in determining how GPA will be tallied) or differences in culture between schools and classes" (Boyle, 2014). Boyle emphasizes the point that the multiple factors that influence GPA make it difficult to compare students. 
	In conclusion, GPA should not be considered by colleges during the admissions process. GPA is not a direct reflection of intelligence and can mean very different things for different schools. I think that U.S. colleges should eliminated GPA as a factor when deciding who to accept. For example, a student athlete's GPA should not hinder his or her chances of acceptance because it is not a good measure of performance across different high schools. I do not think that a low GPA should prevent a student athlete from getting into a college in the U.S. There are many other factors to consider. 
