Specific Way To Reach High Exercise Efficiency 
	These years, increasingly, people start to exercise in order to obtain more physically attractive bodies and healthier lifestyles. I am also a member in the great group of fans of working out. I have been working out for 2 years, and I really enjoy it; every time when I see myself in the mirror, I feel really happy because I can clearly recognize the result of my effort. However, happiness is not the only thing work-out gives me, there are also some knowledge I attained when I try to find the most appropriate way to work out.	When working out, I have to think carefully about three things -- the place to work out, the food choice for energy recovery, and injury prevention in order to reach the highest efficiency, which is a thing everybody considers about when working out. However, there are always arguments about these questions. Some people think there are no specific rules to follow when working out, because everybody has different habit; whatever fits them the most is the best. I believe that although people are admittedly different, there are always some basic rules about these three questions everybody has to keep in mind. 
	First of all, while talking about the places to work out, some people does not think place is such an essential factor of work-out efficiency, one should just choo]se a place he likes the most. However, place is an important thing to think about. In order to claim this more convincingly, I conducted an interview with a professional fitness trainer named Gefeng. He believes that efficiency is the most important factor when working out (Wen Gefeng, 2014). According to the interview, the choice of place to work out does affect the efficiency of exercise. Some people think it is convenient to just work out at home because it saves time. However, gym is the best choice for those who wants to reach their highest efficiency, because there is exercise equipment that normal families do not tend to get since it takes too much space, and one does need different equipment for different fitness purposes. Thus, I have reason to believe that choice of place is an important factor of work-out. For the purpose of highest efficiency, one should go to a gym instead of just pick wherever he wants. 
	Second, food is the only way people can recover the energy loss when exercising, for this reason, food choice becomes a serious thing to think about. Some people think it does not matter what kind of food to eat as long as it provides enough energy. Admittedly, energy is required. However, there are some rules about better food choice. A study by Meyer, Manore and Beming states that there are three things to think about other than energy when choosing food - protein, carbohydrates and water (Meyer, Manore & Beming, 2012). Protein plays an important role in muscle growth because it is the basic ingredient of muscle. Carbohydrates, normally called sugar, as well as water assists metabolism, which is a body function to consume body energy especially body fat. To build a more physically attractive body, one should build more muscle and consume more body fat, so one should ingest enough protein, sugar and water. Water is very easy to obtain, but some people might not be familiar with the food source of protein and sugar. According to a study by Aceto, fruits, vegetables, oatmeal, potatoes, rice and pasta are good choice to ingest sugar, and good resource of protein are chicken, beef, fish, egg whites and protein powder (Aceto, 2005). Based on these two studies, an individual has to choose food wisely based on the ingredients such as protein and carbohydrate. 
	Last but not least, there are some arguments about injury prevention. Some people believe that injury prevention is simple - just be careful. However, based on my own experiences, I can hardly agree with that. I always exercise very carefully about every little action. However, I still get hurt sometimes without knowing the reason. For example, one day, I was running in the fitness center. I was fully concentrated but I still twisted my ankle. I did not know why until a trainer told me not to run too much with a pair of hard shoes on. At that moment, I started to realize that a lack of knowledge might cause injury when working out. So there are some specific things to learn in order to prevent injury. Based on the article 10 Tips to Prevent Injuries When You Exercise (2013), there are some tips one should keep in mind when exercising. First of all, one should check their body condition with his doctor before he starts to work out, and he shall choose exercise activities with the doctor's advises. Then, proper dressing is needed, it is a very vital to dress appropriately because wrong clothing such as hard shoes and tight shirts might cause injury because of the resistance of motion. Also, one should fully understand the technique before he starts a new activity. Finally, always warm up at the beginning and cool down at the end. The author believes that when keeping these tips in mind, exercising could be much safer. 
	All the information shows that when working out, there are some particular things to keep in mind in order to exercise more efficiently, such as place, food and injury prevention. There are so much questions about these three aspects that we need to figure out. The more research we do, the more knowledge we obtain. As a big fan of fitness, I strongly recommend to do more research and study on working out. Working out is not such a simple thing, I believe our skill and knowledge will eventually mature as we study deeply. 
