Why College Should Not Schedule Students' Time 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This argumentative paper discusses the reason why colleges should not schedule students' time, resources from five published articles and a personal interview with expert. These articles have different opinions, Britton.K.B, Tesser.A(1991) and Lynn.F.J, Jeremy S.H.(2013) both think that time-management skills will positively influence student's grade, so either students or colleges can management their time will improve their grade. However, Jon-Chao.H, Mng-Yueh.H, Yen-Chun.K, Wei-Yeh.Y(2015) discuss the negative effects of helicopter parents(parents who give excessive interest in the life of their children), and then they argue if colleges control too much students free time, it will not be helpful to develop their self-learning ability. Moreover, In the interview with Dr. <name> , she also disagree with college schedule students' time. 
Should Colleges Schedule Students' Time? 
When students come to college, they have plenty of free time and a relatively loose study atmosphere. The use of free time is an important factor that influences their grade, but many students do not have good self-control and time-management skills. They may rather use their free time on playing or socializing than make a daily plan. Some people might suggest: If universities schedule student's time, such as setting study hours, will it be helpful for their grade? Among the many academic articles that address this topic, Britton.K.B, Tesser.A(1991) and Lynn.F.J, Jeremy S.H.(2013) both think that time-management skills will positively influence student's grade, so colleges management their time will improve their grade. However, Jon-Chao.H, Mng-Yueh.H, Yen-Chun.K, Wei-Yeh.Y(2015) discuss the negative effects of helicopter parents(parents who give excessive interest in the life of their children), and then they argue if colleges control too much students free time, it will not be helpful to develop their self-learning ability. In my personal opinion, College should not schedule students' time. 
First of all, students' self-learning ability will be limited if college control them too much. Jon-Chao H, Ming-Yueh H, Yen-H k and Wei-Yeh Y(2015) report that helicopter parents will negatively influence children because when parents take care everything for the children, they will not try to solve problem by themselves and will never grow up mentally. Similarly, if colleges help students to manage their time and schedule everything for them, they will never try to learn mange their time by themselves. Moreover, colleges are the places that not only teach students' knowledge but also teach them self-learning abilities. Colleges can schedule time for students to help them, but when they graduate from university and go to work, no one will take care for them, they have to learn how to study by themselves. So it is better for students to receive self-learning ability instead of let college schedule their time. 
Secondly, Although Britton.K.B, Tesser.A(1991) and Lynn.F.J, Jeremy S.H.(2013) report that time-management skills are important for students' grade. However, in the interview to Dr. <name> , she said: "I think the most important element that influence students' grade is motivation students who are motivated to study will usually get a high grade."(Dr. <name> , personal communication, 2015/11/5) In her opinion, the motivation of study is much more important than time-management skills, because students who are motived to study know what majors are fit them and have more enthusiasm to study, and they will get a good grade. The students who lack of self-control and good time-managements skills usually do not have their own goals, because they do not know what and why their study for. However, they are the students who need colleges schedule time for them, which means even if colleges set a study hours for them, they may waste it. So good students do not need college take care for them, and the students who need help do not realize that they lack self-control and time-management skills. 
Thirdly, It is hard for college to manage students' time. Some people suggest college schedule students' time by setting study hours and study groups in certain time and buildings and. However, college can hardly set a policy. For example, if students who suppose to come to the study hours but they do not show up. What is the punishment for them? Moreover, if they come to study hour but do not study, who should urge them to study? So it is hard for college to schedule the study hours for them. So it may waste colleges resources and will be helpless to the students. 
Some people might argue that GPA is important for undergraduate students. A high GPA can help them to easily find a job and go to a better graduate school, then they can have a better career in the future. Although colleges schedule their time may limit their self-learning ability, it will help them to get a high GPA which are useful for them. Students can learn how manage their time in the future, so to get a high GPA should be more important than to develop a self-learning ability. 
I agree that GPA is important and useful for students. However, if students only have a better GPA but do not have a good self-learning ability and self-control, even though they go to a excellent graduate school or get a decent job, they will not do well. Moreover, time-management skills is just one of the elements that will influence students' grade. It can improve student's grade but it does not mean students who have good time-managements skill will get a best grade like 4. 0 GPA. Nonis S,A and Hudson G,I.(2010) say students should still need a other kind of skills like skill of making notes, skill of paying attention on class or doing homework, etc. According to their article "Performance of College Students: Impact of Study Time and Study Habits". Many high-grade students not only have a good study habits but also spend a lot of time on it. Their study skills and hard works lead to their success in college. 
As the discussion above, I believe that college should not schedule students' time. At first I think that time-management skills are useful to improve students' grade and they can get a better grade if college can schedule time for them. However, after the research and the interview to Dr. <name> , I think that the most import thing that student should learn in college is self-learning ability, they should know how to study by themselves and develop a good study habits. As Dr. <name> said, motivation is the most important reason that positively influence student's grade, so I think the key to improve student's grade is to let them realize that what study mean for them and why they should study for themselves. So in the further research, people can try to find how to inspire students' enthusiasm of study. 
Reference 
Britton.K.B, Tesser.A(1991). Effects of Time-Management Practices on College Grades. Journal of Educational psychology, (83. 3), 405-410. http://web.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=27bdda0f-de81-461b-961e-0be52b630df2%40sessionmgr4001&vid=1&hid=4212 
Lynn.F.J, Jeremy S.H.(2013). Professor's Guide: Secrets of College Success. (2th ed). (pp.96-125). San Francisco, CA. John wiley&Sons. 
Jon-Chao.H, Mng-Yueh.H, Yen-Chun.K, Wei-Yeh.Y(2015), Parental monitoring and helicopter parenting relevant to vocational student's procrastination and self-regulated learning. Learning and Individual Differences, 42, 139-146. Doi:10.1016/j.lindif.2515.08.003. 
Nonis S A, Husdon G I(2010), Performance of College Students: Impact of Study Time and Study Habits, Journal Of Education, (85,4)(pp229-238) 
Doi:10.1080/08832320903449550 
WHY COLLEGE SHOULD NOT SCHEDULE STUDENTS' TIME 2 
Running head: WHY COLLEGE SHOULD NOT SCHEDULE STUDENTS' TIME 1 
