P5D1 
04/12/2015 
The relationship between the Roman Architecture and Roman Culture 
During the long history of the world, architecture has always been the most significant product of a specific civilization. In the ancient Roman Empire, architecture is exactly a most representative human product which supported by the strong culture, highly development institution, and advanced technology background of the Roman Empire at its glorious time. And I have always been believing that it's the Roman Architecture that helps with not only establish the Roman Empire but also accomplish the great success of the Roman Empire in its development and expanding. 
The first reason which leads me to believe in the greatness of the Roman Architecture is that the Roman Architecture acted as a very important role fundamentally just liked a base of a skyscraper, which cannot even stand without it. There were many different types of the Roman Empire, such as many large public edifices like forum, temple, arena and theater that could hold many people at the same time. These large public edifices could support the needs of the main stream of the Roman Empire's society thus speeded up the urbanization and reflect that the Roman society had a high living quality and socialized culture. And the architecture designed to commemorate nation hero or great people actually supported people's advocate of to power, strength and talent, which lead the whole society to be more creative and aggressive in the way of the Roman Empire's development. When we talk about the expanding and development of the Roman Empire, one great and most meritorious work we should never ignore is the road. Like the old saying "All roads lead to Roman", the Roman people constructed many roads lead to different directions and destinations to make the exchange in population, goods, and even ideas easier. And with this convenience in transportation, the economy and civilization were able to be highly developed and successful. 
The second point that supports my belief is that Roman Architecture also played an essential role in the inheriting of the Roman Culture and Civilization. Worked as a mental representation and carrier, the Roman Architecture was highly valued and we can tell this from many obvious evidences, such as exists of the model of many different types of the Roman Architecture and the spread of it. While the architect of the Roman Empire kept creating and improving the standard and institution of the Roman Architecture, they meanwhile made models and brought them to every new conquered city or country. Thanks to these architects and models, the Empire was able to change the face of the new territory and change it absolutely into Roman style. As a culture supporter, the Roman Architecture actually helped with the mentally change and adapt of the new people of the Roman Empire. It let the new people see the Roman spirit, strong strength and good lifestyles so that they finally became followers and became loyal or compliance to the Roman authority. Thus the old saying "All roads lead to Roman" can be also explained in respect to the Roman sprit, show us the Roman People's strong and unremitting spirit. 
However, some people don't believe in the power of architecture and think that the development and achievement in Roman Architecture was meaningless and was just a waste of people's intelligence and power to just satisfy the noble and authority's needs. I totally disagree with this idea because the existence of the Roman Architecture was such a masterpiece. It not only serves the needs of noble but also benefited the other classes a lot as fundamental construction and supply lots of working opportunities no matter in its construction period or after finished. 
Roman came from a small town in Italy, with all of Roman people's talents and desires, the Empire grew bigger and bigger with the developments of wonderful soldiers and military. They never forgot to serve the needs of the people in entertainments, religious, and so on. If the Roman Culture is the heart of Roman Empire, the Roman Architecture would be the carrier of it. We should value and never forget the strength of culture and architecture. 
