04/15/2016 
The Yulin Dog Festival Should Be Suspended 
In June Solstice which day Yulin people think as the hottest day in the year, Yulin people organize their own traditional festival called the Yulin Dog Meat Festival and entertain their family and friends with wine and dine. During the Festival, Yulin people will slaughter over 10,000 dogs in total for eating Li 2015, para 1. This phenomenon provokes the anger of animal protectors so that they go to Yulin, try to stop the Festival and let the whole society know the Festival in order to suspend it. Therefore, the Festival attracts a lot of attentions from the society. A part of people who eat dog meat think this is good because they can enjoy delicious foods; other part of people who love animals think the festival is cruel; Yulin people think the festival is their tradition; animal protectors think this festival is inhuman and should be stopped. From where I stand, I think the Festival should be banned for humanity, suffering people's hearts and human health. 
First and foremost, people like my friend <name> , who eat dog meat, announce, "There is no difference between eating dog meat and eating pork, lamb and beef" and "Cows work hard on farms ploughing the fields, you insult Hindus by eating cows and Jews by eating pigs - how dare you then judge us for eating dogs Dog/cats vs. farm animals, para. 1?" However, I disagree with these statements. Cows are the partners of farmer, so lots of farmers do not eat beef because they respect their friends and partners. Same as cows, dogs help people a lot. Seeing eye dogs help blind people to guide. Search dogs help firemen to search those people under the shambles after earthquake happened. Police dogs help policemen to crack a criminal case. Pet dogs accompany with elders to spend their lonely time. They are people's friends and partners. People who get helps from the dogs do not have the heart to kill them and eat their meat. Therefore, eating dog meat is not acceptable. 
Besides, some people think I do not eat the dog of yours, so it is not on your business. In fact, the festival and eating dog meat is suffering people's hearts. A picture on the Internet touches lots of people's heart: The girl was just five years old and she lost her pet named Flower; one day she found her beloved pet was died outside the dog meat stall. She touched her pet corpse and cried. 
Photo from Tracy You For Mailonline, 2015 
What did she think when she found her pet corpse? Did she find how delicious the dog meat is? Was she happy that her pet would become a dish on others' table? The answer is no. She would think why people kill her pet and hurt her heart; she would think why no one has a little guilty when they did this; she would think why this happened on her life; she would think why people satisfy their own desire by hurt others. It is too cruel for the girl to realize that her Flower would never come back. It is harmful for the little girl's development because she experienced the inhumanity of the society earlier than other children. Remaining shading in her mind, she may be scared to contact this world in the future since she had already been hurt by the inhumanity from people. 
	Last but not least, people who agree with the Yulin Dog Meat Festival think the dog meat in the Festival is safe and legal. In fact, according to the girl's picture above, it is not hard to find that her pet dog was lost and killed, and the corpse appeared outside the dog meat stall. It is suspected that her pet dog may be stolen by someone and sold to the stall. In deed, the origin of the dog meat in the Festival is unknown yet. Peter Li points the problem out that "China's food safety regulations ban the processing, selling and serving of products from diseased or dead animals of unknown causes. And yet the Yulin authorities seemingly ignore these rules, allowing dog meat from unknown sources to be sold to consumers, and in so doing prioritizing the profits of dog meat traders over consumer health Li, Food Safety Disaster, para 2-3." This shows that the dog meat in the Festival and eating dog meat have potential dangers for human health. In addition, in Yulin, the dog slaughters kill dogs on public, and they exposure the meat on the air without any storages and protections. This will lead the bacteria grows and spread out quickly with high temperature summer. Therefore, the food safety is a huge problem of the Festival, and it will bring some unknown and serious problem for human health. 
Photo by Billy H.C. Kwok 
	In conclusion, I firmly believe the Yulin Dog Meat Festival should be banned. Considering suffering human's hearts and healths, based on humanity, the Festival is not acceptable to continue. To consider human ourselves, if the Festival continues, more and more people will lose their dogs, and more and more people will be suffered by the unhealthy meat. If the Festival is suspended, people will live in a safe environment. 
Reference 
Dog/cats vs. farm animals. n.d.. Retrieved April 16, 2016, from https://sites.google.com/site/whydogsandcats/ 
Li, P. n.d.. Friend or food? Dog meat festival divides China. Retrieved April 16, 2016, from http://www.cnn.com/2015/06/18/opinions/china-yulin-dog-festival-peter-li/ 
Kwok H.C. Billy. 2014. Horrifying Photos of China's Dog-Eating Festival-and the Activists Who Are Trying to Stop It [Online image]. Retrieved April 15, 2016 from https://www.doctorswithoutborders.org 
Tracy You For Mailonline [Online image]. Retrieved April 15, 2016 from http://www.history.net/photo/flu-epidemic-art/collections 
