P5D3 
04/17/2016 
Future shopping will be online 
Online shopping is playing a more and more important role in people's daily lives. With the development of online shopping, logistics industry has boosted a lot. The whole process of online shopping needs the cooperation of these two industries. Online shopping not only boosts the logistics industry, but also provides many benefits for people. From my perspective, companies should not build or rent retail stores. It is better for them to improve their online shopping services, and make online shopping replace real malls. 
Another reason is that air pollution in shopping malls is quite severe. According to an essay I found on the Internet, the air pollution in the shopping malls, which open for nine hours, is more serious and is more harmful to human body. For example, some shopping malls want to attract more costumers, so they have some restaurants in the malls. These restaurants create cooking fume, which can result in insomnia, hypomnesis and so on. Formaldehyde is also a big problem for malls, which open upon completion of decoration. I also notice that, during weekdays, there are not many costumers in the malls. So if the malls open all the time, it will cause waste of resources. However, if people shop online, these problems do not exist any more. 
The last reason of improving online shopping service is its advantage. Online shopping can stimulate the countries' economic development, especially the logistics industry. Firstly, according to a survey, the total transaction fund in China on 11th November was 5. 75 billion in 2013, but in 2014, it was about 57. 1 billion. These figures clearly show that online shopping enlarged the volume of logistics industry. Furthermore, online shopping provides people with different diplomas. In this modern city, the competition for graduated students is very severe. Many of them are unemployed, even if they have a very high education level. However, everyone can be an online shop owner with or without a diploma. Only the quality of goods and services provided by online shop owners are concerns of online shoppers. Also, as stated before, with the expansion of logistics industry, the employment has raised a lot. Furthermore, Online shopping makes it easier and more convenient for online shoppers to purchase all kinds of things around the world. By clicking keyboards at home, shoppers can get commodities within few days via delivery companies. According to Mr. <name> chief executive officer of an online shopping website, online shopping websites always provide reviews from former purchasers, so the shoppers can compare the qualities of goods. Mr. <name> also mentioned that coupons are given to the old costumers. So the more customers buy on the same website, the more they will save. 
Some people believe that online shopping cannot replace real malls, because they think they may get fake goods. I used to worried about this, however, the policies of the online shopping websites make me completely trust the quality of their goods. For example, Amazon provides free return and free shipping to costumers. If costumers receive goods that they do not like, they can return it without any extra fees. Also, all online shop owners must provide their own ID cards and identities to have their shops- they are bounded by laws. Some people also say that in poor areas the economies are not so developed that people there do not have access to the Internet. However, society and technology are changing, network coverage areas are becoming larger. So, I believe in the near future, the economies in the poor areas will be much more developed than today, and people there will all be able to shop online. 
Online shopping has more advantages than shopping malls, thus it is better for merchants to enhance their online shopping services. The land used for shopping malls now will be used for the infrastructure constructions, and the air pollution issue in malls will not affect people's health anymore. I believe that online shopping will finally take the place of real shopping malls. Although there are defects of my opinions, I think the advantages of online shopping will overshadow the disadvantages, and online shopping will be the mainstream trend. 
