Argumentative Essay, draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Chinese students study in America 
Argumentative Essay 
Introduction 
	Recently more and more Chinese students chose to studying in America, they would like to receive a better education here. But when they came here, they will have kinds of barriers and cannot to adapt to the American life here. Considering about this, my research would focus on helping Chinese students to adapt to American life. And based on the research proposal and interview with Dr. Morgan, my position would be: trying to make American friends would help Chinese students to adapt to the life here. But based on my own experience and others, sometimes it would be hard for us be a part of the American friend circle. So there is controversy about trying to make American friends would help Chinese students to adapt to the life here. And my essay would start a argument with this position and trying to find whether it is worthy for Chinese students to consume more time to make friends with American. 
Background Information 
	In this part, I would like to do more explanation and more details of the problems that Chinese students have in the introduction. Except getting a better grade, Every student who came here also need to improve their english ability, to know American culture and adapt to the life here. But with more and more Chinese are here or some culture shock (From wikipedia, culture shock is an experience a person may have when one moves to a cultural environment which is different from one's own happened to them), Chinese students would like to stuck with each other and avoid to talk more with local students. That is the problem happened to them. 
Controversy 
	The first problem is that it is difficult for Chinese students to make friends with American. Because Chinese students and American students grew up with different environment, there would be a culture conflict with them. And the conflicts show up from a lot of aspects. I do remember that last time when I was watching a movie called dead pool with my friends. The American who are in the same session are laughing out loud all the time, even they applauded at the end of the movie. But my friends and I didn't think it was that funny. After that, I asked some friends who are in China about that movie, they didn't think the movie was that funny either. People with different culture have different understanding about something funny. That is a kind of culture conflict. So sometimes when Chinese are trying to find a topic to talk with American, they cannot go that deeper like talking with Chinese. So some Chinese lose confidence to making friends with American and American lost patience to explain everything to Chinese. That's why it is difficult for Chinese students to make friends with American. However, not all the American are impatient, and there are a lot of American willing to make friends with Chinese. Those local students who are interested in other different culture might build a strong relationship with Chinese students and help them to adapt to the life here. In Purdue, we have the relevant program to help those international students to adapt to the life here. For example, the mission of IFP (International Friendship Program) is to provide programs, resources, and opportunities to foster intercultural learning and meaningful interactions between peoples of unlike cultures. When I was first came here, I signed up for this program. Those American group leader help me a lot. They taught me some knowledge of American culture, taught me some traditional American games and so on. I was really having a wonderful time and build a strong relationship with them. 
So the culture conflict is not a matter for make friends with American. 
Conclusion 
Reference: 
1. The definition of Culture Shock. Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_shock 
2. The mission of IFP. Retrieved from http://www.ippu.purdue.edu/our Mission.cfm 
3. The Activities of enlighten learning community. Retrieved from http://www.enlightenlc.com/ 
Dear reader: 
	I think the strength of my draft is that my experience of evidence is rich and the structure of the draft is proper. But I have some problems with this draft, it is about the evidence. In this draft, I used a lot of experience as the evidence, should I add some other type of evidence to support my claim. and also the I am worried about the logic of explanation for my claim and counterclaim. I think the challenges I encountered writing my draft is to make the body part more logical. If I have two more days to write this draft, I would focus more attention of the logic and the transition between each part. I need more feedback for the logic for my body part. Thank you. 
Best regards, 
