P5D3 
12/6/2015 
Student success is related to communication 
Nowadays, a higher education is becoming more and more important for people which can lead to a better job and a comfortable life. Therefore, people put much emphasize on student success in college. And to those international students who study aboard, there are always a lot of problems they have to deal with. So how do international students to be successful in college? Some people thought communication is the most important thing since students should learn how to get along with other people. While some people considered academic learning as a more important factor. In my opinion, what really matters is communication. Student should talk more and join more activities if they can. 
First of all, communication can help students to solve problems. There are lots of difficulties which is hard to deal with it alone so ask others for help is always a good way. In my interview with <name>, a graduation from Purdue University. He said, "students need to talk with their professor or advisor before choosing a major or deciding what class to take", he added, "whenever students have any problem in their subjects, they can talk with other students or ask professor for help". So communication can help students with some academic problems. What's more, it also help students with some life problems. For example, students can talk with their room assistant if they have any questions about living in campus. 
The second reason is that communication can practice language skills especially for international students like me. As we all know, international students always have many problems in language. As I found on website, "academic difficulties1", language issues apparent immediately as soon as they take class. International students are difficult to understand what professor had said and they are also hard to express what they think. The language problems also affect students' homework since they can't understand the work clearly. To solve such problems, they have to keep talking with native speakers to improve their skills. Therefore, communication is very important in such case. 
The third and the last, communication can help international students to learn about the culture. We may all know "culture shock" and this always happens to international students. So they may misunderstand what native do which can't be seen in their homeland and become embarrass. Therefore, we can communicate with others to learn about their cultures which can not only help students to broaden their horizons but also make more friends in college. 
Though communication is so important, there are still some other views about this. Some people think communication is not the only factor that affect students' success. It is true but communication is the most important among those factors. Without communication, the other factors do not work neither. There are also some people said that to learn about foreign culture, it is more helpful to just travel around to experience new things by themselves. I agree with this and hope I can travel too but it is impossible because we are still students and we should to stay in college and keep learning professional knowledge so it is more reliable for students to be familiar with different culture by talking with others. 
In a word, learning to communicate with others and then join some "right" activities can help students a lot to be successful in college. By doing these, students can handle with some difficulties with others and then improve their personalities and all of these can benefit them in the future. 
1 http://iml.jou.ufl.edu/projects/Fall08/Gao/academic.html 
