P5d1 
04/10/2016 
Will Machine take over all the jobs in the future? 
	In 2016, we can see that many jobs have already been either fully replaced or semi replaced by machines, ranging from industrial level assembly of products to accountant jobs through accounting software. Some machines have already taken over many jobs from humans. While machines are trying to make our life easier in every aspect, it never stops making us lazier. Will machine take over all the jobs from us in the future? After I did some research online and interviewed Tarang Khanna, the President of the Purdue Windows Develop Club, I believe that Machines will able to take over all the jobs from us some day. 
	The first reason I believe machine can take over all the jobs from us is that they can be much smart than human beings. Since machine is composed by instructional machine language, 1010 code, no other distraction can interfere them while finishing the task. Unlike human beings, we sometimes can be distracted by our negative emotions, like feeling sad, tired, fear, hopeless, and guilty. With those negative emotions, we may not able to finish the task. Besides, machine can work much faster. It can finish one very complicated task for just about few seconds. Sending the signal to each code and do the calculation is all that matter. Once human can design a robot that can learn stuff in the way just like human do, it can learn it much faster just like it finishing all the tasks in few seconds. Like the movie, Chappie, Tarang mentioned in his interview, Chappie, also the name of the robot, were activated like a baby, who were curious and scared of the new world, but he learnt every fast. He started calling his name "Chappie" and "mom" after one day. 
The second reason I believe that Machines are capable of talking over all of our jobs is that it is much powerful than any of us. "Machines can be so much powerful than human muscles.", just like Tarang emphasized in his interview. The power does not only mean intelligence, it also means strong. The motors in the joints of robots and machines can be very strong that human could never reach even close. A very strong man can lift a weight maximum at 155 pounds, according to livestrong.com. However, one electronic motor can lift so much more than 155 pounds. Therefore, the decrement of the expecting jobs opportunities in the future is very possible. In the article "The onrushing waves", the author believes that even though technological advancements in the past have provided us with more jobs. Taking into account the computer developer, software programmers and robots engineers, it is very much possible new advancements will take over most jobs. The writer illustrates that new technologies help people perform their jobs more efficiently and thereby decrease the number of employees a company needs to have to get the same amount of work done. 
	Many people may argue that machine won't take over all the jobs in the future because once we allowed them to do so, the robots will occupy our resources and eliminate us from the Earth in the history. I have to admit that I am concerning about this also. Robots can be very dangerous once it starts thinking. Personally, I believe that we shouldn't worry about it so much since our technology will have large improvement in the future also. However, it is not inevitable according to Tarang. In his internview, he said that "Although it sounds horrible that machines may eliminate humans from the Earth someday, but it doesn't mean it's not inevitable. Don't forget about that they are created by us. If we can build them, we can also control them. At the time when we are able to make AI, we must already have a very strong security system that can avoid robots hurting people. The side effect, I would say, is more diabetes, obesity or related health issues would occur to us, since robots will do everything for us." 
All in all, despite the side effects and impossible task that may interfere people's imagination. We should admit that machine can be so much smarter than human beings without distraction. Also it can finish a task much faster than us since the electro signals is pure and nothing more can interfere the signals to going through all the parts. I believe that the machine has the ability to take over all the jobs from us in the future. 
Owens, T. O. (2014). How Much Weight Can the Average Man Lift? Retrieved from: http://www.livestrong.com/article/380767-how-much-weight-can-the-average-man-lift/ 
