The Relation Between The Traditional Chinese Culture and The Oppression of Female in China 
In Xiangtan, China, a pregnant woman died in a cesarean surgery due to the amniotic fluid embolism. As for the reason of the woman's death, some people attribute it to the hospital, while others think that the family held up too much time to make the decision to excise the woman's uterus, for the family were hesitating whether this woman would give birth after the surgery. People aroused a heated discussion about the women's status in contemporary China, and through the long history of China, we can see that the oppressions of female are largely related to the traditional Confucianism and they still exist today. 
Social constructionism 
Social constructionism means that the social construction shapes people's knowledge of reality. Social construction is an orientation towards reality, knowledge, truth, and identity that posits that these things are dependent on social, political, and economic processes, and on shifting ways of viewing and representing the world. Dana Bisignani, who is a teaching assistant in the Women Gender Sexual Study and Women in War, says that "social construction emphasizes the cultural and historical specificity of knowledge, truth, identity, and this social system contributes to our representations and categorizations of the world." 
Confucianism as a part of the social construction 
Culture is the core part in Chinese traditional culture and it is an important factor in the social construction. Confucianism formed in the 551 B.C to 479 B.C, the offspring inherited and developed it, making the Confucianism a primary ideology in the following two thousand years. 
In order to maintain domination, Confucianism advocated a patriarchal society and a hierarchical system, therefore, women became a submissive role in the society. In the Confucianism culture, women's value and success were judged by her husband and son's achievements, as a result, women's individual social identities were deprived and eliminated. In a long term, women's activities were limited in the family. Feminine, submissive, husband-helpers became their characteristics instead of their individual identities and ambitions. 
Women's assignments depended on the "domestic roles" that the Confucianism endued on them. As Mann states, In feudal China, women's learning were based on the domestic roles, they were taught sewing, embroidering, and cooking in a very young age and couldn't get involved in the political, economic, culture life, not to mention have the equal rights as men. 
Although women's status has been improved a lot, the influence of Confucianism can still be found in the approach and the process. During the process of Chinese Nationalist Revolution, the Chinese Nationalist and Communist political parties challenged traditional norms, developed the women's mobilization such as marriage reform; the abolition of polygamy; and female employment in the public sector, etc. Although both parties were willing to ameliorate women's status, women still could not get into the central position no matter in politics or society (Gilmartin,1995). In the post-Mao era, China has established varies laws to guarantee women enjoy the same rights with men in every aspect of life, including work rights, equal pay, and prohibiting discriminatory hiring, pay, however, it also states that there are certain work categories or positions that are unfit for women (Silber,1995). 
The oppression of female in today 
The example, I addressed at the beginning, presents that the contemporary civilization challenges the Chinese culture. Women in China have to confront the oppressions based on gender difference which inherited from the history and the oppressions the contemporary society imposed on them according to their social identities that they have to take care of both their careers and families. These two kinds of oppressions oppress women intersectional in many ways, making the situation much more complex. 
Scholars define the oppressions of women include stereotypes, doing gender, and gender discrimination. A stereotype is a simplified and standardized conception or image invested with special meaning and held in common by members of a group. Additionally, doing gender means individuals are judged in terms of their failure or success to meet gendered societal expectations, and people are assigned different tasks based on their gender. At the end, gender discrimination is the unequal treatment of people and preference based on their gender identities. 
People often hold the opinion that women should be feminine, submissive, and compliant and their success standard for women is simplistic and superficial, somehow, a "happy" family and a "decent" job represent women's ability and success. Besides, female in China face a great gender discrimination and limitations on their daily life including their political rights, self-development and living standards. 
Unfortunately, when people face these situation as I addressed above, they usually treat it as a family issue or a social issue and have little awareness that it is about gender equality or human right. As a result, both men and women are victims of this gender practice and act as oppressors to the next generation. 
After the investigations about women's status in China, I admit the improvement of female consciousness and revere the efforts that people made for an equal environment. However, the injustice and inequality still exist, which we cannot deny and ignore. We can also draw a connection with Confucianism to women's liberation, and have a long term to struggle for women and improve women's status in China. 
Reference page 
Gilmartin, K.C. (1995). Gender, Political Culture, and Women's Mobilization in the Chinese Nationalist Revolution, 1924-1927. In C. K. Gilmartin & G. Hershatter & L. Rofel & T. White (Eds.), Engendering China: Women, culture, and the state (pp. 195-225). London: Harvard University Press. 
Mann, S. (1995). Learned Women in the Eighteenth Century. In C. K. Gilmartin & G. Hershatter & L. Rofel & T. White (Eds.), Engendering China: Women, culture, and the state (pp. 1-46). London: Harvard University Press. 
Silber, C. (1995). Chinese Women Workers: The Delicate Balance between Production and Equality. In C. K. Gilmartin & G. Hershatter & L. Rofel & T. White (Eds.), Engendering China: Women, culture, and the state (pp. 279-299). London: Harvard University Press. 
