Argument 
My grandparents had lots of free time, since they retired. They decided to play Mahjong to kill their free time instead of having a pet. However, some of my grandparents' friends who are still alive preferred to have pet dogs to be their time-killer. They went outside with their dogs and play games with their dogs on the grass, even their off-springs also had good time with their pets. My grandfather was not as healthy as before, because he often stayed in the room smoked and played Mahjong with others. The doctor suggested that he should go outside and do some exercise, "and if it was possible, you can have a pet to stay with you and do some activities with you", the doctor said to my grandfather. This was the first time I realized that pet is so important for us. 
Actually, I had a pet dog when I was in primary school which was before I realized the importance of the pets. During that period, I experienced how to take care of my pet dog, I needed to feed him by myself, take showers for him and go for a walk with him. I learned punctuality and be patient based on those experiences. Furthermore, I also could concentrate on study which was reflected by me increasing grades of the tests. According to my improvements, I thought that pet dogs can let me have some good habits at that time. However, during that time, I only knew the positive things for me, not for my grandfather or others. 
Now, it is easy to see people run with their pets on the straight street or play Frisbee with their pets on the parks' grass. For me, I can understand old people and kids play with pets now because I experienced before, but I observed a strange situation which confuses me. Why more and more young people who need to do the hardest work and under the biggest pressures in today's society prefer to have pets? 
I researched some information on the internet about human and pets. Tesfom and Birch(2010), published an article, Do they buy for their dogs the way they buy for themselves, they did a research about the consumptions that compare dogs' food, care and human's food, care in the United States . After the research, they found that dog owners prefer to buy more expensive and health dog food, instead of human food for themselves to eat. The result of care part, was the same as the food(p898-912). The data showed that pet owners in the USA regard their pets extremely important, sometimes the status of pets even are higher than people. Meanwhile, the sociologists Maharaj and Haney showed people the relationship between pets and their owners and what they did suggest this bond represents a meaningful relationship (2014). They listed three themes: 
1) The impact of dogs on interpersonal relationships, 
2) Dogs are subjective beings, 
3) Psychological and health benefits of dogs.( Maharaj and Haney, 2014) 
Besides searching on the internet, I also interviewed my high school psychology teacher, Steven Michael Deburger who got the Ph D from University of Hawaii. I thought I could get some daily information from him. I sent he email asked him whether he could help me. However, he is in China now, so we have to hold this interview by Skype. I started the interview and asked him what's the relationship between human and pets in his opinion. I believe a number of people may regard their pets as family because they lack the social skills to maintain connections with other actual people(Deburger). Furthermore, accompaniment is an important factor to let people have dependence. As the time goes by, this kind of dependence will increase, the status of pets will be high and owners will regard their pets as their families or friends. Then, I asked him about the pressure problem, I already searched on the internet that dogs can release people's pressure because people can tell any secrets to their dogs and do not need to worry that other people will know. Dr. Debergur told me that dogs' fur can also reduce people's pressure. Touching dogs can let people feel relax that is why many females like to have fur tools, this way is even better than listening to music. (Davie Louis, England Psychologist, 2014) Furthermore, Dr. Debergur mentioned me that fur's color also will influence human's brain and pressure. As for the color, high pressure owners should probably avoid bright white pets due to the fact that the owners would have to constantly wash them in order to maintain their coats.( Debergur) I asked Dr. Debergur, what is the impact of dogs on interpersonal relationships? He told me that people will feel happy with dogs' accompany, and they also will connect with others who also have pet dogs. They will exchange information about the habits of their dogs and the problem they met together or they can have a walk with their dogs together. Dogs can bring a positive interpersonal relationship for people. 
The Queen of the United England, Elizabeth II, who is under the biggest pressure, loves her pet dogs very much. She even appeared the opening ceremony of the London Olympia with her dogs. Hugh Jackman has a pet dog and loves his dog very much, he spent lots of money on his pets. Not only famous people, many of my friends fell in love with their pets when they first saw their pets. Pets are not only the livings who can protect our house and families, they but also are our friends, even, they could be the bridge to let their owners connect with others. They can help us relax and have a happy time because their soft fur. Although we need to pay a lot of money for their food and health, sometimes even is more expensive than human's, owners are willing to do that, because we can see pets are good for our live from different aspects. 
Reference 
Deburger. S(2014, by Skype interview) 
Tesfom. G& Birch. N(2010). Do they buy for their dogs the way they buy for themselves. Psychology& Marketing, 27(9), p 898-912 
Maharaj& Haney(2014). The Qualitative Investigation of the Significance of the 
Companion Dogs. 
