4 
Is Qin Shi Huang a completely tyrannical emperor or was he also productive? 
P5D2 
April 23, 2015 
Killing scholars and burning books to banish opposing thought, carrying out harsh punishment to guarantee the implementation of law, charging heavy taxes on people to support the building of the Great Wall, palaces and even his tomb (Qian, 145B.C.). Those were atrocities Qin Shi Huang did when he reined over China. Qin Shi Huang is the builder of the Qin Empire in China at 221BC. He is famous for his tyrannical behavior such as the conduction of "nine family extermination", which is a kind of punishment toward people who did things that enrage Qin Shi Huang by killing the person and his family, friends and neighbors. The trigger ranged from big political mistake to even a small joke about Qin Shi Huang. "History experts debate whether Qin Shi Huang was a unifier or a destroyer during his brief reign 2,200 years ago" Football, 2010). He unified the Chinese territory but sacrificed thousands and thousands people to satisfy and glorify him, which hugely weakened the power of the nation. However, was he a complete despot who did nothing helpful? To appraise Qin Shi Huang objectively, we can not blind our eyes just by the negative side he did as a brutal ruler. It's a fact that he relentlessly oppressed his people. However, some of things he did still brought great welfare to China. 
Firstly, the most obvious beneficial thing Qin Shi Huang did is that he conquered the whole territory. The dynasty before the Qin dynasty-the West Zhou dynasty was a weak centralized regime which had 7 states that were all isolated from the control of the central regime. The old central government was void and acted like a puppy when 7 states warred with each other year by year. Each state wanted to swallow other's land and become the successor. The disorder lasted around 400 years. The winner of this game was the Qin state. Strengthened by internal political revolution, the Qin state stood out and became the most powerful state in this period. Led by Qin Shi Huang, "Qin destroyed the other six strong states - Han, Zhao, Wei, Yan, Chu and Qi, unified China, and established the first centralized, unified, multi-ethnic feudal state in Chinese history - the Qin Dynasty" (Warrior tours, 2014). This was by all means a big event in Chinese history. The building of this unified empire marked the beginning of feudalism history in China and left its feudalistic central-power-thought lasted about two thousand years. "The unification of the Qin State ended the long-term separations and local divisions in China and it made Chinese people live a peaceful and steady life to some extent" (Warrior tours, 2014). The old country at that time was tired to face any war. It needed a unified country to recover and grow its economy. In this way Qin Shi Huang was a great conqueror. Even though his aggressive invasion toward other states cost numerous death during war, his conquer is necessary and beneficial in this historical period. 
After laying a national foundation for China to buffer and develop, Qin Shi Huang continued to make his economic and cultural revolution. "The first Qin Emperor standardized the length, measures and weights, and unified the currency, which promoted the economical communications between different ethnic groups, and conveniently provided opportunities for socio-economic development" (Warrior tours, 2014). This action is so far away from us that we do not feel very strong how influential this policy was. However, for people at that time, this was the most beneficial change that affected their daily life. The territory of China before the Qin Empire was separated. Each state run their own systems and conducted different policies. So every state's currency, measurement of length and weight were almost different. It was a common situation that you show your money to another state's people, but they can not recognize it. The measurement of the same stuff was different among states so they could not communicate about it easily. That caused huge inconvenience for people to trade between states and states and also impeded whole empire's economy. A standard is so important because it dictate each place of the country can interact well and run effectively. Qin Shi Huang conducted his standard of currency and measurement as early as he built the empire. That was a wise decision to run an empire efficiently. 
"Culturally, Qin Shi Huang unified the characters by making the mini-seal scripts as the official ones, which promoted cultural communications" (Warrior tours, 2014). Before the Qin Empire was built, each state had its "langrage". They used their own official scripts and pronunciation. This situation limited the sharing of knowledge and informing of new policy between states. Scholars also had difficulty to study in other states due to the language difference. To eliminate such awkward situation, Qin Shi Huang claimed that only the mini-scripts characters were the official writing form, which he thought is the most beautiful form. Even though the differences of pronunciation between each state still existed, which is an unchangeable fact, the formation of writing made the spread of written publication between different places possible. Due to the feasibility of the standard of Chinese script, this policy largely facilitated the education and economy, eased the delivery and implement of policy and strengthened the control of whole country. 
Zhe Zhang (1527-1602), a famous scholar of Chinese history, evaluated Qin Shi Huang of "The first emperor". Qin Shi Huang is the first emperor in Chinese history. He is an instinctive conqueror to build a nation but didn't have too much wise to manage it. All he did in his lifetime was to satisfy his vanity, both the expanding of his territory and building of useless large projects. However, we cannot deny that he is also the first leader to bring so many considerable changes. Even though he trampled his people by force and punishment, conducted revolutions to show his achievements, some of his policies still brought great welfare to China. Qin Shi Huang is a despot, but is also a productive ruler. The contribution he left can compensate some of his fatuity when we see his place in long-term history. 
Reference: 
Football. (2010) All about the Great Wall of China. Blogger. 
http://chinesehistoryproject.blogspot.com/ 
Qian, S. (145B.C.) Historical Records: Basic Annals of Qin Shi Huang. Published by Oxford University Press. New York. 
Warrior Tours. (2014) Qin Dynasty (221 BC - 206 BC). Warrior Tools 
http://www.warriortours.com/intro/history/qin/ 
