P5d3 
5.12. 2015 
E-learning is better than traditional education 
Computer technology has been increasingly important in our daily life. As a computer science student, I can see that the modern technology has changed a lot of things. E-learning has been more and more widely used than before. The the educational tools are very important to every student's life. And the question of "which educational tool is the best for students to study faster " has been a significant issue for the universities and schools. I believe that E-learning is better than traditional education and I suggest that traditional education has its own benefits, but I still insist that the schools should use E-learning more widely. 
	The first reason is that E-learning can provide a lot of resources for students to use. From the interview with Advisor <name>, I knew that with online books, students would not necessarily go to the class, and the students can watch the lecture over and over again until they get the material. Throughout the first year of my college life, I took an online course called MA161-I and I think it was very useful because MA161 was a kind of hard course and every student needed to preview the knowledge of the class, and many things needed to be reviewed by the students before the exam. The online book can let me to watch the lecture a lot of times before I came to the classroom, when I got in the classroom, the hard knowledge became very easy for me since I had learned it so many times. Before the final exam, some of the knowledge was been taught a long time ago and the students might had already forgotten. The students can also use the E-books to review the contents. 
	As for my second reason, I would like to talk about another advantage of E-learning, self-paced. In the interview, <name> said that students can manage their own time by themselves, and this kind of opportunity can help students to be good at time management. For example. I used to study Korean by myself with an online course. It is completely self-paced and I can choose which chapter to learn, if one chapter is little hard for me, I can just spend more time on this chapter until I get the material. Teachers don't know which chapter is hard or which chapter is easy for the students. They just teach the content one by one and the students can be so tired to learn a new thing if the last chapter is so difficult. 
	My third and last reason is that E-learning has a such huge and complete database. In my summary of "E-learning vs Classroom Training-How Different Are They?1", written by Karla Gutierrez, she said that Students can learn a lot of things that might be a little difficult for them to be educated by the teachers in their school. A smart middle school student might think the contents of middle school teaching material is too easy and he wants to learn something about Calculus. It is impossible that the teachers in the middle school give the students a Calculus lecture. However, E-learning can be used by this student, he can watch an online lecture on the Internet and don't need to worry about how much time he need to understand the content. When I was in the high school, I wanted to study some TOEFL course but none of my classmate wanted to learn it and my English teacher could't teach me as well. So I just learned an online course by myself and took the exam. I can't even study in an American university without E-learning. 
	Many other people will argue that traditional education can make the teacher have the face to face communication with the students so that the teachers can know whether the tool is working. However it depends on the students. Some students might be too shy to share their thought with the teachers. Teachers might think that the students get the knowledge but actually the students just too shy to say that they don't understand the content and this kind of situation is just wasting the students time. On the other hand, E-learning can let the students and the teachers have face to face communication as well. And someone else may say that traditional education is much more cheaper than E-learning. Some schools may can't afford some expensive teaching equipments, but making a website help students to learn doesn't cost so much at all, even the school can't make their own website, so many websites and data can be shared by other schools and educational department. 
	In conclusion, I believe that E-learning is better than traditional education. E-learning can save students' time and let the students to learn the knowledge faster and more convenient and I suggest that the schools should use more E-learning equipments and websites rather than traditional education. 
1 http://info.shiftelearning.com/blog/bid/354977/e Learning-vs-Classroom-Training-How-Different-Are-They 
