P5D3 Argumentation 
April 27, 2015 
Is vegetarian diet healthy? 
Nowadays, an increasing number of people choose to become vegetarians. Those people who chose to be a vegetarian claim that vegetable meal is good for body health and animal protection. Others might argue that vegetarian diet does harm to humans' health. Is vegetarian diet healthy? For good nutrition, a diet that contains 100% vegetables is not healthy because it lacks protein, affects infertility, stunts children's development, causes cardiovascular issues, and prevents nutrients absorption into the body. 
Vegetarian diets lack a certain type of protein, which can only obtain from meat, fish and eggs. Proteins are composed of a variety of amino acids including eight kinds of essential amino acids that the body cannot synthesize (Inge, 1996). To ensure adequate intake of essential amino acids to human health is very crucial. Not eating animal protein for a long time can enormously decrease immunity, and then make the body imbalance of carbohydrates, protein, and fat. Therefore, it results in anemia, weight loss, indigestion and memory loss (Inge, 1996). Being a long time vegetarian will make the human body lacking trace elements like calcium, iron, zinc and so on, so as to produce many adverse effects on the human body. 
In recent years, the public has gradually accepted vegetarians diet habits, especially by dieting women who eat vegetarian diet for weight loss. Admittedly, it is indeed helpful to lose weight with vegetarian diet, such as vegetables, fruits and other foods rich in fiber. However, recently the medical field research (Inge, 1996) confirmed that if women eat vegetarian diets too often, it could have a devastating effect on the secretion of hormones in the body . This may eventually lead to infertility (Inge, 1996). If the women want to be fertile, they should think thoroughly before starting the vegetarian diet. Especially for women over the age of 30, fertility rate itself has declined. So these women should take more caution. 
Vegetarian diet cannot only affect woman's health, but also affect children's development. Among many families, children inherit their parents' vegetarian habits. These diets cannot provide enough nutrients for children to grow. So it is best not to let the children eat only a vegetarian diet. Moreover, vegetables lack vitamin D. Vitamin D is very difficult to find in food, since there are only a few foods containing vitamin D among vegetables like carrots and white mushrooms. Vitamin D plays a very essential role on bone growth (Inge, 1996). Also, vitamin D deficiency can lead to rickets for children. Therefore, children should take enough meat to obtain necessary Vitamin D for body needs. 
Pure vegetarian diets should emphasize on protein supplement. Young or middle-aged vegetarians diets should be arranged with five to six high protein foods, such as beans, nuts, seeds, tofu and other soy products (Wilk, 2004). In addition, vegans should increase the intake of protein and amino acid composition of rich balanced food. The enhanced calcium absorption is very necessary because lack of calcium will cause limb spasms, brain retardation, loss of consciousness, cardiac dysfunction, and even in severe heart stops (Inge, 1996). Although mustard greens are regarded as a high calcium vegetable, calcium from vegetables does not get easily absorbed, and vegetarians should not just rely on vegetables for calcium. Also, vegetarians should take vitamin D to enhance the absorption of calcium. 
Some vegetarians are keen to eat salads of raw vegetables because they think it is the best way to fully absorb the nutritional value. In fact, a lot of nutrients in vegetables such as carotene and lycopene need to be cooked with oil for absorption. Also note that the fat content of salad dressing up more than 60%, and this amount of fat is not less than cooking oil (Wilk, 2004). 
Pure vegetable diets are not good for humans' health based on nutrition consideration. A variety of elements are essential to benefit the human body, having too little means the potential danger. Quality and quantity of nutrition directly affect human health, disease resistance, and longevity. 100% vegetarian diet lacks amino acids, impacts fertility, impedes children's growth, effects cardiovascular diseases, and restrains nutrients intake to the body. Therefore, the better way to live in a healthy life is eating a lot of vegetables and certain meat. 
