Assignment 4 Draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Is Cyber Security Important in the Future? 
	Cyber Security is very hot in the computer area now. The term "Cyber Security" indicates the security of the computer network. The International Telecommunications Union (ITU) defines cyber security as follows: Cyber Security is the collection of tools, policies, security concepts, security safeguards, guidelines, risk management approaches, actions, training, best practices, assurance and technologies that can be used to protect the cyber environment and organization and user's assets. (Von Solms, R. & Van Niekerk, J., 2013) In my opinion, Cyber Security is really an important part in the computer area nowadays, and it will be more and more important in the future of the computer area. 
	Almost every people use computers today. We have to say, computer has become a very important part in our lives. We use computer to study, to work, and to entertain. And the most important part of computer is the network. Do you always feel lonely and anxious when you cannot find Wi-Fi in your daily lives? In the past 20 years, we have built a mature Internet system all over the world, and every computer can get connected into it nowadays. Today, we can really find everything we want easily on the Internet! But with the development of Internet, we have to say, we need to concern about our personal information security on the Internet. When we use our bank account and personal information on the Internet conveniently, we have to admit, it has a lot of risk to do so. Hackers can easily steal our personal information if we do not try to protect it. In consideration of this problem, Cyber Security has become a more and more important part in the computer area. 
	So some people may ask, Cyber Security is not mature today, so it will cost a lot of money to develop this area, and we may not receive enough benefits from it. I need to say, Cyber Security program is just like other programs like Operating Systems and Internet, if it has been developed mature in the future, it will sure have its large markets. Just like Windows and Android, neither of them was estimated to be successful at the beginning of the development, but both of them got huge success when they became mature and had their own markets. "Cyber Security profession will not disappear, and Cyber Security will never be solved." (Sandhu, R., 2010) Cyber Security will never be useless in the computer area, and it always has ultimate spaces for people to develop. 
	Here comes another question: people are free to develop their websites by their own, and we cannot force them to be safe. Actually this is a very easy task: although we cannot force the websites to be safe, we can protect our devices from the dangerous websites positively. The most powerful way to protect our computer on the Internet is to use anti-spyware software, just like Mc Afee, Kaspersky, Avira and so on. Anti-spyware software with features that prevent, detect, and remedy the spyware problems is by far the most widely recommended solution. It monitors attacks, identifies the malicious spyware, and then removes it from the system. (Lee, Y. & Kozar, K. A., 2008) With the development of the anti-spyware software, we can protect our computers easily and safely. 
	And the biggest problem is, there are so many security problems on the Internet, so develop a safe Internet environment still needs more efforts in the future. What I want to say is, as people use Internet more and more, Cyber Security will must be a very important area, and more and more people will focus and work on it in the future. Cyber threats imperil America, now and for the foreseeable future. They endanger the enormous economic, social and military advances enabled by cyberspace, not only for the United States but also for the world. American government, military and a lot of other areas are focusing on researching Cyber Security right now. (Lord, K. et al., 2011) 
	Above all, Cyber Security is still being developed fast today, and it will sure be a more and more important part in the future, as all the world are focusing on this area more and more. In the future, students who major in Cyber Security will find great jobs easily, as every famous university in the world has Cyber Security major nowadays, so does Purdue University! It will sure be a simple thing for everyone and have its own market in the future. 
