P5D3 
11.05. 2015 
Target audiences of Chinese animation 
Japanese anime is well-known all over the world these years, while Chinese animation cannot perform very well. In previous research, I have gained lots of useful information on this topic. I believe that Chinese animations can improve by imitating Japanese anime. Specifically, I suggest that Chinese animation expands its target audience to a wider range. 
The first reason is that young children cannot really afford the cost of buying a good anime. In an interview with Mr. <name> , he explained: "Japanese anime targets start from school children all the way to junior high, senior high and even more mature people, such as college students or 30-40-year old audience. On the other hand Chinese animation is more immature than Japanese anime." Then he added: "Financial cost of making anime as far as I heard was about 2 million dollars for a 24-episode anime with half year cycle." From his statement, it is not hard for me to figure out that making an anime cost a lot of money. Therefore I don't believe a huge amount of teenagers have a lot of money and will pay for the expensive animation. Therefore, 15-25-year-old people should be the target audience. 
The second reason is that if the anime studio focus on young children, they already lost potential audiences. In the book, the author of Chinese Animation: A History and Filmography 1922-20121, the author Rolf Giesen talked about the target audience: One of Chinese officials said Chinese animations should target on young children. Then government helped domestic company by keeping the high license fees from foreign studio. From his belief, Chinese animation did ignore some potential audiences. Actually, I have many friends who love watching Japanese anime but Chinese animation. In their mind, they think Chinese animations are too na ve and immature to watch. 
My last reason is that young children in China don't have time to watch anime. In China, from primary school even before all the way to the end of their senior high school, students have to take exam-oriented education. Actually, China has 1. 357 billion citizens and almost all youth have to take exams to the higher education. After they enter the college, however, they have lots of time to relax. As far as I heard, many college students in China don't have to attend their class and what they need is studying for a single week for their final exam. So in China, Chinese animation should not limit the target audience on children, they can probably expand it to college students. 
In fact, many people have their own opinion against me. Some say that China did succeed in the earlier 20th century and the target audience was only child so why they have to change. However, the thing is as simply as their thought. China did succeed in the last century, but it was based on the government's help. China kept high license fees from foreign anime studios during that period and the government used a lot of money on animation without too much return. In addition, the internet was not very popular in the last century. Nowadays, it is easy for us to find some interesting animations instead of limit boring animation. Other people are opposed to my opinion. They believe that children's parents will afford the cost of anime. Indeed, I know many children whose parents are pleasure to buy DVD even Blue-ray disc for them just like my mother. However, based on my observation, rarely parents will buy the genuine DVD instead of pirate DVD in China. Many of DVD sell in China is faker copied by illegal ways. In this situation, the studios cannot get money from their audience, however piracy businesses will. 
In conclusion, I believe Chinese animation studio can improve their products by imitate Japanese anime. And the best way to do that is changing Chinese animation's target audience to much wide range. 
1 (https://books.google.com/books?id=2mjj BQAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false) written by Rolf Giesen published by Jefferson, North Carolina: Mc Farland & Company, Inc. 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
