2016/4/30 
The influence of popular American movies 
'You jump, I jump.' It was a famous sentence at the end of 1990s. It came from a popular movie called Titanic. The romantic love story moved public and have a fabulous comments. At that time the dressing style of the main characters also became a model of fashion in decades. Every girls dreamed to have a perfect lover as the main character of the movies called Jack. I have watched a movie from Youtube. There is a group of people imitate the plots of Marvel movies and make a funny video. This facts just showed a aspect of the influence that a popular movies. Nowadays, electronic products become worldwide. People use electronic products to work and entertain. Also we use them create many new industry for entertainment. There are many ways for people to relax themselves after working or studying. One of the popular way is watching movies. The influence of movies are growing in a high speed because of the wider range of age of its audience. Some parents do not want to their children to watch those movie because they think movies will have bad effects and their children will be addicted with movies. In my opinion, popular superhero movies can change the life attitude and the relaxing way of audience. 
At the first point, movies have good influence to little children because almost all of the movies are have a positive story line. In film and business history: the development of an American Mass Entertainment industry the author asserts that The main part of movies were combine the fundamental ideas and beliefs of majority of Americans. Of course it will teach children a correct beliefs. For example, the superhero movies. Those superheros have powers that different from normal people and they use it to save the world in variable ways. Maybe the main characters do not have perfect personality but they are all kind and like to give others a hand. Those movies taught children how to judge kind or evil. Children will dream to superhero and save the world. I think this is a better way than teachers taught them learning which is right or wrong. For example, I believe most of us played same game in our childhood. It is a game for which kids take on the characters of members from a typical household family and act out their typical roles and responsibilities in their day to day activities. Children were all likely to act superhero instead of villains, which means they agree that superheros are respectful. Children are good at mimic and those movies give them good chances to imitate a honorable hero. Although children may distract by watching movies, their will have more gains than lost. 
Secondly, movies will have good influence on adults.I have read a book when I was doing my Synthesis paper called American film satire in the 1990s, film and business history: the development of an American Mass Entertainment industry and In focus: Film history, or a Baedeker Guide to the historical turn. This books and articles illustrated different aspect of film history. The first one is talk about how companies combine arts (movies) with business way so that make it popular. This book explained a little about how audience can learn arts and many extra knowledge while we are watching movies. As we all know, the average life quality of nations are getting higher. This facts brings a pressure of works to adults because you have to pay higher price if you want a better life. Watching movies is a good way for adults to release their pressure. When they are watching movies, they can forgot those hard problem and have a rest. They also can watching movies with their friends, enjoying the time stay with friends. In another aspect, there are many kinds of movies can cure their heart, such as comedy or films have happy ending. The audience can relax their mind while watching movie. Comedy movies make them laugh and those warm plots give their energy to fight with hard situation. Many movies are telling people that nothing is impossible if you tried your best. For example, The Great Gatsby is telling us a story about young man who have a humble origin but became a millionaire by his hard working. A positive movie can not change your life directly but can change your attitude to life. The Great Gatsby was public at 2013 worldwide in cinema. 
However, there are still some opposite opinions about the influence of movies. Some parents think movies include many violent plots that may have bad effects to children. Children may become aggressive in their daily life after watched those movies. For instances, they may hurt their self or hurt their classmates. I think this totally do not make any sense. The movies that include many violent or bloody scene will be public as R level movies so that children do not have permission to watch it. For the movies that children do have permission to watch, it won't have plots that too bloody to children' mind. Another group of people stand that teenagers may be addicted with movies and spent tons of time to watching variable films. I think the solution of this problem is not to banned movies because teenager were addicted with movies if they can not self regulated well. If those teenagers have poor self-control ability, they may also addicted with other attractive activities such as playing violent computer games instead of watching movies. So for this aspects, parents should spend more time to educate their children' self-regulate themselves. The other negative thoughts of movies represent that some film company have many similar story movie because those are popular worldwide. They think it's because the company want to earn more money. From my point of view, I do not think the movie company make a incorrect decision because the aim of every company is more profit. There is no reason for them to give up the benefit they can make from product similar movies. From the other hand, every movies have trailer before the completed movies run. People can watch trailer and decide if they want to watch this movie. According to my reason above, those opposite opinion will be solve if them change a different angle to think about the problem. 
In conclusion, movies have positive influence whether to adults or children. The big part of not addicted with it is to self regulate. Watching movies is really a good way for us to release our pressure. It can also brings us many positive effects. In In focus: Film history, or a Baedeker Guide to the historical turn , the writer talking about how published Cinema journal about film history influence film market in the 1970s and early 1980s. This article are talking about that Cinema journal have a great influence on the extend audience at 1970s to 1980s. 
Nilsson, Johan. American Film Satire in the 1990s : Hollywood Subversion. Palgrave Macmillan, 2013. Print. 
Gomery, Douglas. Films and business history: the development of an American mass entertainment industry. Journal of Contemporary History January 1984 19: 89-103, doi:10.1177/002200948401900105. 
Higashi, Sumiko. "In focus: Film history or a Baedeker Guide to the historical turn." Cinema journal. September 1,2004, Vol.44. Issue 1 (2004): p94-100. Public. 
Fitzgerald, F S. The Great Gatsby. New York: Scribner Paperback Fiction, 1995. Print. 
