Is there a debate about lifestyle? In our life now we all live a certain lifestyle, whether we like it or not. Many people have a strong belief about the lifestyle they choose to lead. People have debated lifestyles throughout history; every side tries to prove their lifestyle is better. In the 20th century was a lot of talk about lifestyles, and which lifestyle is best. Also, there are many topics that can affect the lifestyles and how these issues can be improved. In this project the controversy is about urban and rural lifestyles and which lifestyle is better to life in. An urban lifestyle is living in cities, having and consist technology and equipment that is necessary for this lifestyle. Conversely, a rural lifestyle means living in the villages or countryside, but having less technology supplies, and less emphasis and need for transportation and stores. Even though some people think living in a rural lifestyle is better than living in an urban lifestyle, the urban lifestyle has many positive attributes. This research shows how these attributes can work better than they do in the rural lifestyle.
The opposing view in this project is of the people who prefer to live in the rural lifestyle. There are three main points that support the proponents of a rural lifestyle. Side. The three points are; crowded in the street, safety culture and students in schools.
The picture above shows how the rural lifestyle does not have any traffic issues and there is no any crowded in the streets. (Hersman. E. 2009). The proponents of this lifestyle said that this is the good side from their life pattern, they don't want any crowded any they don't want any pollution in the air because of the highest numbers of the vehicles that causes lots of carbons in the air and this what those people don't want.
Secondly, the rural lifestyles peoples nowadays they are proud of their communities, because they think their lifestyle is safety more than the urban lifestyle. Because in these lifestyles they have less of populations and this will reflect on the numbers of the criminals and robberies. (Michael. E. 2009). This fact based on the governmental statuses so this is kind of other supporting for those people who life in the rural lifestyle.
Thirdly, this point is more effectively because it is talking about students in schools. The rural community has small schools and also small classes, and they think is good thing because this will affect the way the student get their education as they said. They talking about the small classes as an effective way for the teachers to be in individual rooms and know more about their students, also be close with their educational atmosphere. (David. J. 1991). They think this way is good for the parents to pursue their sons' educational standing. The people who believe that living in the rural lifestyle is better they have some legitimate reasons, but they are not telling the entire story about this topic.
The other side of this argument, the people who agree with me is the people who hope to live in the urban lifestyle. The first point is that the people who live in the rural lifestyle claim that they have a clear climate, no pollution that can affect the weather in their communities. My point is this side is that the rural lifestyle doesn't have the enough health materials rather than the clear environment in their lifestyle. The urban communities are supporting from the governments so they have all the required materials that needs in the all health sectors. (Unit for sight. INC. (2011). We find that in the urban communities they have more equip hospital more than the rural communities. The high numbers of clines of these hospitals in these communities, this
Request more companion to serve those people and it should be available for this high numbers of peoples. The details and the research support the main point in term of the health supplies and the supporting from the government for the health side in the urban lifestyle.
The second main point is that the rural communities think they have the safe lifestyle. They said this based on the numbers of residents in this lifestyle. I understand their position about which is lifestyle is safer but my point is that the urban community is safer than the rural communities because in the urban lifestyle there is a large neighbors that need more security departments that can help this community to avoid the securities issues. The urban community has large population so they need more security sectors that do make this community more secure to live in it. (Michael. E. 2009). In addition, the governments try to offer the latest technologies in the security side, so they can make their communities more secure and good place to live in. The details and the research support the main point by giving addition details that affect the main point and also support it. By mention the safe issues in both lifestyles and how the government helps the urban communities I related the main point and the research.
The third main point is the schools characteristics; I will talks about this point in terms of the classes and the materials that's been used in the schools. In rural communities they talks about how they have a schools that has been improved and they think they rich the perfect point in the educational levels. I understand, I see their point but based on my research, this what I think the urban lifestyle has lots of good schools and this is good thing for the built the communities if we look for these schools in terms of how these schools begin to be good. Big classes and lots of materials that's need to make the student begin creative and help them to be success. (David. J. 1991). The details and the research support the main point, in how the schools in the urban communities is better than the rural lifestyle schools, to be specific the classes point.
The
The fourth main point is the job creation. In rural communities they believe that the smaller community, the greater area for finding jobs. I see what they mean but according to my research, the urban communities have lots of opportunity for finding jobs more than the rural community. There are many improvements in the objects that were made by the governments in the urban communities in order to create a new chance for jobs. The government invented a new program called "Employment-Intensive Investment Unit ". (Emp Invest). "Rural / Urban job creation". (2012). by looking throw this improvement we find that, nowadays there are companies that have been participant in this program, they has been successful in combining the objective of improving infrastructure and services with the objective of creating employment and income. The details and research support the main point in term of which lifestyle have the good environment to find a job, the research shows the new program for urban community that have been successful in creating a jobs.
Figure 2.
Figure2 it shows the increasing in the numbers of residents in the urban communities it has been increasing more than the rural communities. This states it talks from New Zealand were supposed to be counted and many aspects of their life circumstances recorded. The increasing in the population in urban lifestyle shows how this lifestyle has improvement in terms of Residence in the urban community. In addition, this increasing of residence in this lifestyle explains how the urban communities improve their environment and then tries to make their lifestyle better place to life in.
I will give some explanations in what situation might someone from the opposing view change his mind about this topic? I think in the health side the proponents for the rural lifestyle they might change their minds, because in the urban lifestyle there are lots of services they will find it and obtainable these services. In addition, I think in this situation particularly they will think about how the health is one of the weaknesses in their lifestyle, so it will makes some change in their minds about the urban lifestyle.
There for there are many benefits for someone from the rural lifestyle will receive if he changes his mind about the urban lifestyle. Firstly, he will make his life easy by using the important services that available in the urban communities such as transportation in general, the air conditions, and the latest technology. All these services can affect the lifestyle he lives in and it will make his life easy and enjoyably.
To sum up, While there are many people choose to live in the rural lifestyle, the researches shows that other people who prefer to live in the opposing lifestyle which is the urban lifestyle.
The opponents of the rural lifestyle made some interesting claims about why there lifestyle is better than urban lifestyle they said; in their communities there is no crowded in the street, and they said at this point they will get a clear climate. Furthermore they also said; their community is safer than the urban communities they said this based on the numbers of population in this lifestyle. In addition, they mention the student in the schools; they said that in their lifestyle there are better environments to get a good education. However, the research in my paper suggests that the urban community is actually better. These main points support my view: the schools, finding jobs and safer communities. Student in the urban lifestyle has lots of options in their schools, that's mean they have many classes and many activities that might makes them happy in their schools. The second point is the safety lifestyle; the urban lifestyle is the most safety community based on the researches, the government's tries to protect their communities by make their lifestyle safer.
Third point is finding job, according to the researches the urban communities is most likely to find jobs, because there are more options to find job.
