Are social networking sites good for our society?
Some people focus on the disadvantages of social networking sites, but the research in this paper shows that social networking sites are indeed good. Social network sites like Facebook, twitter, My Space and HI5 is sites allow to people to communicate with others all over the world by just stay in one place and not suffering from get out to meet new people and have good way of speaking to make a new friends. We define social network sites as web-based services that allow individuals to construct a public or semi-public profile within a bounded system, articulate a list of other users with whom they share a connection, and view and traverse their list of connections and those made by others within the system. The nature and nomenclature of these connections may vary from site to site (Boyd and Ellison, 2007). According Boyd and Ellison the first social network site was launched in 1997 it was very simple and not have the properties of recent social networks sites. It was established to the public in 1998 with few features like create profiles and surf friends' lists it called ww. Six Degrees.com with really few members. It's the seed that allow the social networks to grow and start to get a new feature and huge database of memberships to prove for us that the world became a small village.
Google plus for example have good feature which is collect and bring the people with similar interesting together. To be easy for anybody to find his appropriate friend who have similar principles, similar level of study, similar native language, similar traditions or similar country ... And so on. These sites make a person feel comfortable to chatting with anybody or make people do not worry from the audience reacting. And this sites not only used for communicate with people or meet new friend. It also can used for economic and businesses like introduce a new project and ask the users to give feedback to some of the company products. So we won't admire if we see that a huge and rapid spread of the social networking sites all over the world.
Figure 2, how often the social networks sites are spread
However, even if there are huge amount benefits of social networking sites and that popularity of these sites many persons think it's not useful and it leads to many dangers. The popularity of social networking sites such as Facebook, My Space, Twitter, Linked In, and Classmates.com more than quadrupled from 2005 to 2009. Many users say the sites are good for our society, but others contend that the dangers of social media outweigh the benefits (Procon.com, 2012). These people who say hate the social networking sites have many reasons for this opinions. They think that there is no privacy in these sites. So it easily to know all information you doesn't want anybody to watch it like their ages, names, locations and cites of birth. They have to respect members' privacy and not show members' information to anybody even if it work with government. Social networking sites can sell your personal information to anyone who wants to buy it, including spammers and on line predators. Even if the terms of understanding claim that no personal information will be sold, the site can change its policy at any time (Young, 2010)
In addition some news and articles say some social networks sites like twitter were controlled by governments. Twitter explained that it could use its new capability to restrict user posts based on geography in countries with different ideas about freedom of expression (Szali, 2012). And governments have permission to block any content of any member profile. Some people mad from this law and make campaigns to disruption the social networking sites that use this law. This law confines freedom of persons by make them don't have the right of express their emotions or talk whatever they want. So these sites became obverse of their goals which is gives every person the right to talk in whatever they want.
These sites could waste many people times. When anyone surfing on of these sites they will spend many times chatting, playing or read their friends update status. He would surprise how times pass quickly without achieving any purpose or take useful from these sites. Social networking sites entice people to spend more time online and less time interacting face-to-face. The sites offer many time wasting activities that supplant more productive activities (procon.org, 2012). So many people thinks that's big problem and it will affect their grades in both schools and universities because they don't care of any ting unless these sites. It reduces their ability of concentration. It's important to remember when using social networking sites for business purposes that you stay on task and only spend time on the things that help your business (Nick, 2012).
Let's go on the good things and advantages of social networking sites. It helps to foster creativity and communication in kids. Kids many times cannot share their opinions in public. Because they almost shy to show in public or they afraid from laughing on them so they share their own opinions and point of views in social networking sites. It helps them also to improve their creativity by having feedbacks from their friend comments on their articles in S.N.S. The social networking sites provide for them a good place to share their ideas with appropriate features for that. It does not restrict members by selected ages. Everybody can have his own profile and use it in whatever he wants. University of Minnesota researcher Christine Greenhow breaks down how her research has found that social networking sites like Facebook and Myspace can have an impact for learning and educational growth for high school students. By working with students in a Minneapolis high school to study how they use the social sites, she has discovered that the benefits may just outweigh any risks (Greenhow, 2009)
These sites help you to keep in touch with other people like your friends and your relatives by just sating on your place and find them. It is also the most cost effective way to keep in touch with your people. Here geographical locations are no barrier to stay in touch (lifestyle.iloveindia.com, 2011). Some sites have special search engines allows to find persons with similar interests with you. So you can find good friends have common interests with you. People who have a difficulty communicating in person are more comfortable interacting via the Internet (procon.org). That's will work with shy people who all times afraid of going anywhere to laughing on him, or afraid from face-to-face interact with peoples. By using a social networking site, you can do what you can and get connected with these people to form a web of connections that can give you leverage if you play your cards right (everyday-wisdom.com, 2010).
Definitely, if you are dealer and have your business you can reduce the cost of advertisements or commercials using social networking sites. It not helps him reduce the cost only it well sends the advertisement to more of people than used in traditional advertisements. In addition the Internet advertisement is more creative and attractive so the customers may increase. In a social networking site, you can scout out potential customers and target markets with just a few clicks and keystrokes, adding a boost to your usual advertisements and promotional strategies. It lets you learn about their likes and dislikes, which is tremendous. If you want to fine tune your business, then this is the way to go, whether on a budget or not (everyday-wisdom.com, 2010). It's help peoples how want to publish a new opinions or new information. Some newspapers may request money from him to publish his article. But in the social
networking sites you can do that free and the report will arrive more quickly than newspapers. And there are no confined conditions can anybody put it to confine the writer freedom.
The best thing the social networking sites achieve is when many nations get freedom. Thank to express freedom that social networking sited offer to all people. They can display the injustice they exposed to all people in the world. Many people sympathize with them and all nations co-operation and connect together to stop their presidents. We have seen how a social networking sites on the Internet works to organize people and arrived message to all people what is a best way to attack those who have a power and to inform the outside world that the people here are angry, active and want things to happen to change the rules. So that social networking sites on the Internet was significantly effective in a very short time and change many things in world (al-Dar, 2011). First the Tunisian successes to make their president leave by publish video shows guy work on vegetable kiosk burn himself to object the rules and principles. The Egyptian also Force their president Husni Mubarak to leave from the ruler by using revolution depend on Twitter and Facebook which are some of social networking sites. And then Libya success to make " Al-gadafi" to leave then they have a freedom and build a parliament.
Everything in the world has both advantages and disadvantages. So we had to keep aware of appropriate use of social networking sites to stay in the safe side. And don't exposure for dangerous of hackers. So from all above we can notice many of people like to using regular method of communication like visiting relatives' houses or talking with friends face-to-face. But others like to use a developed method which is better than regular one because it is save times and allow to you to communicate with all over the world
