Hijab All Over The World
Even though the Hijab is often required or prohibited depending on the country, the research in this paper shows that the Hijab should be an individual religious expression of a women's religious beliefs-not a government choice. Every religion has its own beliefs regarding women, and in Islam a woman is considered a precious diamond that should be valued. Islam sanctifies women, as it honors them by equating them with the opposite sex and giving them a prominent place in the community through terms and legislation that ensures her existence and rights. Islam led a revolution that drove out women out of nothing into existence, and from darkness to light. For example, it embarked provisions that saved women from slavery, it forbade abuse to their dignity in any way, and saved their chastity by imposing the "Hijab". Even though some people think that Hijab imposes on Muslims women's, the research in this paper shows that though in some countries women are forced to wear the Hijab, and in others women are forced not to wear the Hijab, this paper will argue that women should have the freedom to choose whether or not they wear the Hijab.
In the other side, some countries impose Hijab on women and some of them forbid women to wear Hijab in it. So that the government should not impose Hijab for their public by using some law to necessary let them wear Hijab. The way Muslim women wear hijab differs from one place to another. It is the culture, country, and time that determines the way hijab is worn among women in Islam. Countries like Saudi Arabia and Iran consider hijab very sensitive issue, as its mandatory for all women to wear it. The reason why Saudi Arabia is very strict in this aspect is because it's the epitome of Islam integration. Since Macca and Almadena, which are the holiest Islamic spots on earth, are located there, they are eager to follow the religion provision precisely. According to Alawadhi (1995), who is one of the Saudi Salafi scholars, the vast majority of women are expected to cover their entire body including their hands and faces, because revealing these parts are prohibited in front of unrelated men. However, many Muslim women wear only hijab without covering their faces and hands. Iran also is strict about the hijab issue. Iranians recognize it as an acceptable form and suitable Islamic symbol. Women need to cover their heads as well as their foreheads, shoulders, necks, and breasts. It is very common for women to be punished if they don't wear the hijab correctly (Alruqaishi et al., 2002).
In contrast, wearing hijab in Turkey and France is forbidden in certain professional contexts. The French human rights advocacy groups believes that hijab indicates woman's submission to men as well as a limitation to freedom. One of the biggest examples that prove France's intolerance against hijab is that around 100 female students were suspended or expelled from school in France for wearing scarf in class. Salim (2011), who is a renowned Kuwaiti reporter, reported that the girls organized a protest in favor of the right to wear hijab in classroom, but unfortunately the result wasn't in their favor, and they ended being suspended or expelled from school. Associations consider hijab to be a symbol of belonging to the Muslim community. Therefor, women who wear it display their religious and community affiliation, which harms the unity of French republic. In reality, un-veiled Muslim women are a common sight in French and Turkish societies.
My side, Some people agree that Hijab should not be imposed on Muslims women's, because Islam guides us to the right path gives the freedom of choice in our lives so that it do not impose Hijab in Muslims women's. According to Tristam (2007), Hijab can be defined as "the traditional head, face or body covering of women in the Middle East and the Islamic world". It's an Arabic term that most commonly translated as "veil" in English. Hijab is considered to grant woman the meaning of modesty, privacy, and morality. However, although it's a standard obligation between all Muslim countries, the degree of urgency differs from one country to another. Countries like Saudi Arabia and Iran demand Hijab on women in public, while some countries like Turkey and France banned wearing Hijab in schools. On the other hand, the vast majority of Muslims' countries including Kuwait gave women the freedom of choice whether to wear it or not.
Many people think that Women's who wear Hijab cannot work or study,
but in this picture, you can see clearly that hijab doesn't prohibit women from learning and working. On the contrary, it gives her the absolute freedom to learn and work. Women here are studying and completing their education without finding any problems or difficulties. And then, they have the choice whether going to work or not. Veiled Muslim women enjoy all their rights and practice it equally with men. And this justice and equality are brought and called on by Islam since it emerged.
Also some people think Hijab make the women ugly, but As it shown in the picture attached, women wearing hijab are not prevented from being beautiful or appearing well. The woman here looks very attractive in this blue scarf, and she ties it on her head in a very nice way that makes her appear distinctive. And this proves what I said earlier about women's validity of beautify themselves.
In the rest of the Muslims societies including Kuwait, this obligation may be lifted, especially when it is not such an obligation enforced by law. According to Morjorie, (2010). "Women are given the opportunity whether to wear hijab or not". Compulsion to wear a hijab is an unconstitutional and illegal work, because Kuwait is a civil state governed by law and not governed by the legitimate fatwas. Also, Kuwait's constitution calls for respecting the individual freedom in all aspects. Kuwaiti society acknowledges that the value of hijab lies in the full conviction and satisfaction, other than that will lead to the loss of its essence and value of desire. Although it's not mandatory for women to wear hijab, many do wear it.
Hijab is one of the important thing in Islam, according to altememi(2009), "All Muslim women who wear Hijab are religious women who abide by God's Commands", That why Islam keen to wear Hijab to protect women, because when women's wear Hijab they will preserved themselve from men And awakens the girl in the same faith and pride of Islam.
To sum up, this diversity in legislation from one society to another shows the flexibility of the Islamic religion in its provisions, depending on the state of society itself. Where it's not possible for Muslims who are living in a country that half of its population is half-naked, to fully cover themselves including their faces. Hijab sends a very great message to make the world understand women correctly, to ask them to look at the women as a human beings and to focus on their mind, rather than looking at their bodies as means for pleasure. Moreover, Islam is not against women from being beautiful, and that doesn't contradict with hijab, it is just guiding them to be beautiful where they really should be.
