What is gun control? "Gun control is a policy that supervises the rights of guns" (http://www.baidu.com). In many countries, people are allowed to use guns; however, in the other countries, this is not allowed. 'Gun control has aroused great debates in the society.' (www.dayoo.com) the supporters believe that gun can protect their lives and it is the expression of human rights and freedom. However, the opponents disagree; they think that gun brings more crimes and damages to the human beings than benefits. The debate on gun control remains an intense one across the country today - making this a particularly difficult issue to tackle. This article's main primary coverage is talking about the phenomenon of gun control in America, because this is a sentence states that "America is the only country that the citizens have guns universally."(www.zhidao.baidu.com), and here is some opinions that people agree to publish gun control. Gun control is necessary in the world, especially in U.S.
Using guns has a long history in the world, from the original people to the current. In the western countries, the originals used guns for hunting and for entertainment. They believed that guns have become a part of their lives, and their culture. "Many hunters have their guns by pass down of generations and generations in their family" (http://www.opinetree.com). They are all educated that they must use the guns safely and cannot do the idiot actions, such as killing a person without any reasons. They believe that they never hunt anyone, so they trust that this is rights for them to have guns. If people enact the policy of gun control, it means they have already encroached on the human's rights of them and the human freedom. It is illegal that take away the guns from them. "They suggest that the government could put some regulations on guns, but they should not necessarily banish guns all together" (http://wenku.baidu.com/ ).
The gun owners are not all same. Some people use the guns in illegal ways, but the others are not. They just use them in hunting or to be a sports game. Government could not banish all of them. But only needs to set boundaries to help protect the people who need it the most and to confine those people who are abusive in using guns, so that they could avoid some potential wars, such as wars between countries and countries. When they have guns, they can protect themselves and their family. Allen Rostron said that we should protect the rights of owning guns.(2009) And they could defend the enemies without any protection from the armies which come from the nation. This will save trouble and save the human resources. Some countries require adult citizens maintain weapons in their house, and periodically to train in their use, so that they could protect themselves and their families when some tragedy conditions happened. "And one thing could be sure that such widespread ownership of weapons is also a safeguard against domestic tyranny, guns control some countries' policies" (http://wenku.baidu.com ). This means that some of the national leaders may do something that only useful for themselves or for their family members; however, they will not like to lose their lives to transfer these things, such as authority or mammon. Because of the rights of own guns, people could keep the countries' balance, whatever the policies, the laws, economy, or the Gross National Product; and also guns could restrict the Czarism. Guns also help people out of trouble or revenges from some of gangs. When you use guns with handled responsibly, they are good things to you, whatever for keeping safety or defense.
All of the people believe that criminals do not obey the law. Strict gun laws probably only affect the actions of people who would not commit crimes in the first place. "Without the fear of retaliation from the victims who might be packing heat" (http://wenku.baidu.com), criminals in possession of these weapons now have a much easier job, and the incidence of gun-related crime has risen. As the saying goes: 'If guns are outlawed, only outlaws will have guns.' (http://wenku.baidu.com). These opinions influenced these people about their thoughts. They think guns are necessary. The government should not ban some laws or policies to forbid their rights. However, the other people think that these opinions are stupid, and ridiculous.
Here are the reasons to convince people and government that we should ban some laws and policies to forbid gun control. And I agree with these opinions. The following paragraphs will explain why I agree with these opinions below.
The supporters find some of freely using guns argue with the supporters. Although guns using is part of the western culture, some people believe that if there is no rule to limit them and just let them do what they want to do, it will cause problems. Such as the species extinction, and the turmoil of the society. The only function of guns is killing, whatever are the human beings or the animals. Such as the extinction of dears, whales and so on. Because of the culture, the criminals have the reasons to own guns, so that it leads lots of crimes.
They trust gun control has been a major issue in American politics over the last few years, partly due to a series of tragic massacres involving children. And also, when the guns go into the children's hands, it will lead many tragedy events. The children do not know how to use it, and also they do not know that in which conditions, guns are allowed to use. With this situation, children with guns tragic accidents and terrible disasters happened. 'Such as the Columbine High School massacre in U.S.A in1999. The two high school students killed 12 students and 1 teacher with self-loaders, shotguns and lots of exploder. Eventually, they suicide with eating guns' bullets.' (http://tieba.baidu.com/ ) This became a very series disaster in U.S.A. at that period. In U.S.A., death by gunshot has become the leading cause of death among some social groups. Quite simply, guns are lethal and the fewer people have them is better. Another case is happened in 16 April, 2007, in Virginia Tech University, there was a series gunshot accident. At the accident, thirty-three people died, and twenty-nine people were hurt. This one became the most series case up to now. Another example is happened in china 5 decades years ago, in 1937, the Anti-Japanese War, more than 300,000chinese killed by gun shooting. (www.baidu.com ), if the world has no guns, the life will be more peaceful. For my point, I agree with that the only function of guns is killing. Whatever you kill the people are good or bad, it is a life, a vivid life suddenly disappeared. Most of people can not afford this. They scared about guns, guns are dangerous and there are no advantages of using guns. Guns take scarifications. Not only the human beings, but the animals also. Because of the abusing guns, the animals, especially the uncommon animals become extinct.
In AZ, people could own guns when they are 21 years old. Wherever you are from, or whatever you have done before, when you at 21 years old, you have the rights to own a gun. Let us make a condition. When you walk in a street, someone come close to you, and shoot you. You may hurt or die without knowing any reasons. It is a very horrible thing. Keeping guns with someone, it causes problems. They think that guns are the part of culture, they are illegal in using guns. However, do those people really know what they should do with guns? Do not use the culture to be the reason that they can use guns. Guns are harmful for everyone. Crimes are from guns.
Some people think that they can use guns to defense themselves from the terrible accidents, such as wars. However, do guns really protect them? There are still such things happened. Guns have little efforts on protecting and defense.
In my research, some horrible facts show that the gun control is necessary. On 16 April, 2007, in Virginia Tech University, 32 students died, 29 students hurt, and the suspect was a Korean student. This became the most series event of gun shooting in the high school in U.S.
(www.xinhua.cn)
And another case happened in 1999, in the Columbine High School massacre, 15 died because of the gun shooting crime. On Oct. 2, 2008, a community university in Pennsylvania happened a gun shooting accident, 4 students died, 7 students hurt. In AZ, a community university happened a gun shooting accident, 5 people got hurt. From 1997 to 2008, 21 series gun shooting events happened in different states in U.S. more than 130 people died in universities. These are just the facts that the death rate happened in the schools. There are the other facts that people died out of school. It was said that In 2004, 26,569 people were killed by guns, 81 people were killed per day in U.S. a few were the age under 17, several were the age between 17 to 25, and the last people were the age at 40 or older. (www.baidu.com) in 2006, 2 man suspects killed 6 people and 17 people were hurt in phoenix. And in AZ again, on 29, August, 2010, a housebreaking case caused 4 people died just because of the gun shooting. And from 2004 to 2010, more than 20 thousand of people died in gun shooting in U.S. every year.(www.baidu.com)
Look at these facts, what do they told you about? We should think about these. I think the government should implement laws or policies to restrict using guns. For the normal citizens, the government should employ experts to educate people about guns. Such as these things: who can use guns? How to use guns? What the disadvantages of guns and how to be a law-abiding people. And education is necessary too. The government should use education to educate their citizens about the harm of guns, and told them that they should stay away from the guns to protect yourself and your family or keep the society peaceful.
In conclusion, I agree with implement gun control. We should do that to avoid horrible gun shooting accidents. The criminals will have no reasons to hurt someone. Gun control is necessary for the world, especially in US. America need these laws to regulate themselves. These data that I show in my paper illustrate the harm for guns. The government should help people out of these terrible condition. Do not try to hurt anyone or any animals with guns. And we should protect ourselves, but not depend on using guns. There are the other ways to protect ourselves. Such as learning laws, or go back home with friends and so on. In the end, I want to say please do not use guns, then you can protect anything.
