One-Child Policy implemented in 1979 by Chinese government, because the pressure of large population. This policy generally provides one couple can only have one child, if not the couple need to pay a very high fine. One-Child Policy first introduced in 1979, when China has nearly a quarter of world's population. Also, at that time, Chinese government started an ambitious program of improving the economy, the pressure of population makes the program hard to achieve that's why One-Child Policy finally implemented (Hesketh, Li, and Zhu). Now One-Child Policy has been implemented for 32 years, some people think it is the time to abolish this policy. In the 2011 11th two sessions, one representative proposed to abolish One-Child Policy. The reason is they think the economy of China grows very fast in recently years and no longer needs to control the growth of population. Actually, China still needs to control the growth of population and China still under the big pressure from large population. One-Child Policy still benefits China now, so this Policy should not be abolished.
I was born under One-Child Policy, also get many benefits from this policy. I am single child in my family, so I can get a single child subsidy every mouth until I was 18 years old. I feel lucky to be the only child in my family, because my parents can take good care of me and give me much support to do something I want. My parents always try to give me better environment to study, if I have brothers or sisters my parents will not be able to support me to study aboard. I know the disadvantage of large population from my personal experience. When I was in school in China, there were over 60 students in my class. For one grade, there were over 14 classes. So the school can not supply enough teachers and equipments for education. There are so many students crowded in one classroom, in one school. The students can not get good quality education, can not get good quality food and environment because of the large population but lark sources.
The fact is China still need to control the growth of population. China has a very large population, if without any control it will become larger. In 2008, the population of China is 1,330,044,544, it is over 20 percent of world's population (Nationmaster, online). China has such high population is not only the problem for Chinese people themselves, but also a big problem for the world. Here is a graph shows the population of China and contrast it to other countries.
The graph shows China has the highest population. And India has the second large population in the world, India's population growth is 57. 6 percent (Nationmaster, online). But China's population growth is 7. 52 percent (Nationmaster, online) under the One-Child Policy, the graph clearly shows India's population will become larger than Chinese population in the future. The population of China goes down based on the One-Child Policy still be used.
China has similar area with American and Europe, but the population is much higher. That brings many problems to China. For the economy, the GDP ( Gross Domestic Product) of China grows very fast in 21st century. In 2006, the GDP of China becomes the third in the world, but arrange the gross domestic product to each people in China, it becomes really low. Because of the large population, the GDP per capita is the 131th in the world in 2006 (Nationmaster, online). For education, there are so many children and teenagers need to go to school, but less teachers and equipments. High population can not gives students good quality of education. Those problems are all because of large population. China is now a developing country, large population makes China has to face so many difficulties. One-Child Policy now for China is the best way to control the growth of population.
The biggest benefit of One-Child Policy is that this policy successfully controls the growth of population. Although after started One-Child Policy, the population of China still grown a lot. During 21st century the effect of One-Child Policy became clearly. These data from website show that after the One-Child Policy, the rate of population's growth become slower. As the data shows below, around 1990 to 2005, the population of China just grown a little bit. If this policy is abolished, that will bring a baby boom time for China which with a very high population.
Why China has a such high population cause the government had to implement One-Child policy. There are two main reasons. One is China just independents after long time wars, the government encouraged people to have more children in that time. "A larger population means greater manpower," reasoned Hu Yaobang, secretary of the Communist Youth League, at a national conference of youth work representatives in 1958. "(Time, magazine online) In the 1970s, China emerged from the Cultural Revolution with the memory of famine still acute. Poor central planning had helped cause food shortages, but now attention focused on population as a solution, and Chairman Mao Zedong, who had once encouraged large families (Hvistendahl). Another reason is the sex discrimination in China. In traditional Chinese culture, son is much important than daughter, because daughters marry into their husbands' families, couples see sons as a form of social security (Hvistendahl). That's true that many people in China before 21th century think "a married out daughter is like spilt water." If one couple first child is a girl, they will try to have more children until get a son. The two main reasons make the population of China exploded.
One-Child Policy's implementation has changed the sex discrimination, let the status of women become more important than before. When One-Child Policy first implemented, Chinese government encouraged people to treat daughter as same as son. Because one couple can only have one child, so whatever the child is a girl or boy, they should be treat the same. One-Child Policy's implementation promoted women's liberation to a better situation. The time One-Child Policy first used also is the time that China started an ambitious program of improving the economy, there are many opportunities for young people. The encouragement from Chinese government to treat girls as same as boys also makes much opportunities for women. Many young women have found opportunities to participate in paid work away from the village; an increasing number of women have the option of attending university; and traditional attitudes which valued sons more highly than daughters have been challenged by extensive government campaigning and the One-Child Policy (Ross, 67). Also, government attempts to modernise China through reducing fertility based on One-Child Policy and changing reproductive behaviour place a disproportionately heavy burden on women and women's bodies (Ross, 68). One-Child Policy is a advantage to develop women's liberation movement in China. To implement the policy, government said women should hold the half sky in China. Until now, the traditional idea to prefer a son is much weaker after the implementation of One-Child Policy.
Some people support to abolish One-Child Policy because of some problems when One-Child Policy first used. To implement One-Child Policy, some place in China the officials accept forced abortions. The children of unwed mothers will be killed by forced abortions. The policy also requires all women get a birth permit before pregnant (Smith). "30 years One-Child Policy in China equals 30 years violence and gendercide." (Smith) As a result, many people angry about forced abortions, as many as 3000 people protested those rules in Guangxi province, some overturning cars and burning government buildings (Time, magazine online).
However, one policy can not be perfect when it first introduced. One-Child Policy does have some problems which are against human rights, because of this problems One-Child Policy has made some changes by Chinese government. Many people think One-Child Policy should be continued, bet need some changes. One editor from sznews said, any policy will bring both positive and negative effects, and thus what we need to do is to limit the side effects of the one-child policy to a minimum. The current family planning policy was worked out in the late 1970s and needs to be updated to suit the present situation (Huang). For example, forced abortion by officials in remote parts of China is having been banned by the central government in Beijing (Elegant). In 2002, couples no longer need to get a permission to have their first child ( Hesketh, Li lu and Zhu Wei Xing). In some areas, the One-Child Policy has been relaxed.. Like Shanghai city, the city has a very low birth rate and the One-Child Policy change to Two-Child Policy to fit the situation in Shanghai (Jowett).
Furthermore, One-Child Policy depends on different areas has different issues, this policy is not all the same, it has some changes in different situation. The specific policy is if you are from the ethnic majority (Han), if you live in the city and if you are from government, then you can have only one child. If you are from an ethnic minority (non-Han), then you can have more than one child. If you live in rural areas, then after a period of 4 years and if the mother is over 28 years old you can try for a second child (if the first child was a girl). If you are from an ethnic minority and live in a remote, under populated, rural area, then you can have up to three children (if the first child was a girl). If you are in a second marriage and one of the partners has not had a child, then you can have two children. If you are a couple where each of the parents grew up without siblings, then you can have two children. If the first child is born with a disability, then you can have two children. If both parents work in high risk occupations, then you can have two children (Dodge and Suter). Because ethnic minority has different culture and law in China, so they do not need to comply with One-Child Policy. In rural area, the traditional idea prefer to have son is much stronger and they really need more males to do some work which need more physical strength. So people live in rural area can have more than one child, if they are first child is a girl. One-Child Policy makes much changes try to fit every situation in China. It is not the same policy when it first introduced, One-Child Policy now is more acceptable for people has some special requirements.
Nowadays One-Child Policy affects China becoming a small-family culture and this culture is very suitable for modern China. With the fast developing of economy, the price of housing and education become higher and higher. It is easier for one couple to have a good quality of life, if they just have one child. Also, the idea of preference for son is not that strong now. More and more people treat daughters and sons all the same. Even their first child is a girl, they do not want to try to get a boy. The traditional idea is changed in modern China. Under the small-family culture, a new generation grow up. This new generation all grow up under the One-Child policy, which means most of these children are the single child in their family. They almost born in 1990s, so this generation be called Post 90s. The society very worried about Post 90s. Because those children raised to be apple of their parents eyes. They have been spoiled so much and can not do some thing by themselves. However, this young generation has much better education than the older generation, so the idea of preference for sons is weakening in the young generation (Claudia). It's good for the government to control the growth of population and the sex ratio.
Depending on China's present situation, One-Child Policy should be necessary continued. It should be a long-term policy. China now still has a very large population, One-Child Policy is a very effective way to control the growth of population. This policy for China is not only to control the population, it also affects the society becoming better. One-Child Policy makes Chinese people change the traditional idea to treat girls as same as boys. Also, to implement this policy, the government's action improve women's liberation movement. Women have more opportunities and should hold the half sky as well as men. To be more perfect, One-Child Policy has some changes to support human rights, banned forced abortion and the permission to have a baby. Also, One-Child Policy is different in different situations, in some areas people can have more than one child based on some reasons. This policy now accepted by most people in China, and under the benefits of One-Child Policy, a new generation grows up. There will be more and more people support One-Child Policy and want more benefits form this policy in the future.
Work Cited
Hesketh, Li lu and Zhu Wei Xing, The effect of China's One-Child Family Policy after 25 years, N Engl J Med 2005
Jowett, A.J, China: The one, two, three, four and more Child Policy
Kaz Ross, China and Women's Liberation: Re-Assessing the Relationship Through Population Policies Laura Fzpatrick, A brief history of China's One-Child Policy, Time, Magazine online, Jul. 27
Mara Hvistendahl, Has China Outgrown the One-Child Policy
Meulenberg Claudia, Probably One: A Generation Comes of Age under China's One-Child Policy Therese
Patrick Shaou-Whea Dodge and Elizabeth A. Suter "It's Okay to Have a Girl": Patronymy and China's One Child Policy
Simth, Franks, Human Rights Leaders Mark 30th Year of Brutal "One Child Policy" in China, National Right to Life News
Simon Elegant, Why Forced Abortion Persist in China, Time, Magazine online
Wang feng,Ye tingfang and Huang hongxiang, Should the One-Child Policy continue? Beijing Review, April 25 2010
The data of population and GDP from website: www.nationmaster.com
