In the current age, there are plenty of modern science and technology items that have come out and bring on stream in some general field, these items help human to enhance the quality of living. These items also solving some difficult problems which humans have met. As a powerful industry, the genetic research can rank at the top of these high-end items. In contrast, even though the genetic research has accepted by some individuals, there also have plenty of argument about this issue by some traditional and conservative groups. They believe that the genetic research already go against general natural activities, because it could change origin concept of human or something. However, the genetic research technology is a kind of reasonable item that can give benefits to humans in many ways. Even though the genetic research technology still restricted by some susceptive regions, however, it is already used widespread in the real society, such as in food, clothes and medicine and so on. Otherwise, this research can bring variety of benefits to creature that lives in this world. More precisely, this technology involves benefits for the government, biological, anthropology, agriculture and medical science. Actually, the bulk of the aspects of society could link to this research in a sense. According to the elements of the force of genetic research, the evidence can reveal that the genetic research technology should be used in humans' daily lives and main basic industry.
In terms of government, it is manifest that bulk of the government at happy to accept the genetic research technology that put into military develop and political instruction, even if there are still some extremist believe that this technology can cause a huge risk to the government. Recently, these extremist claim that genetic research technology is negative study in public, because this research has too high risk for country and the government have no guarantee to control the process completely. Even though the government can control it, once this high-end technology is used by the terrorist groups, it will be difficult to imagining the result of humans' future.? Hedley Douglas? However, the government already has enough prepare to accept the benefits which came from the genetic research technology. Actually, genetic research has been around for 26 years, it experiences a plenty of special tests by some profession agencies. (Skopek Jeffrey) Compared to the failed samples, the population of the successes one is extremely high. (People's Daily Online) As a result, the genetic technology could be a mature item in the high-end field; also, the government agency has enough confidences and ability can able to control this technology. Therefore, it is no necessary to be afraid of the risk will endanger with human being. On the other hand, since the genetic research is a super complex technology, the genetic research cannot work without the progressive machine and professors. Consequently, even if the terrorist group can steal this technology by some illegal ways, they still cannot make it maniple with their conditions and technology. The country can avoid the risk from the terrorist which stole the genetic research technology.
In contrast, the governments can performance the genetic research plan for countries protection. The reason is that this research is necessary to put some high-end objects into the countries protection and some special rescue items, it can reduce the risky and save time about these significant issues. For instance: the Human Genome Project plan has brought out by a huge amount of professional scientists who came from six countries in the 1980s. In that plan, there are 23-parts of DNA have figured out with a special arrangement. In 2000, they announced the structure of the work plan. Once the plan come to successful, it will bring crucial benefits for human beings.(Genome.gov) In addition, the level of high-end production is a way to calculate if a country is strong or not, because, this kind of high-end ability is a way to reveal the competitive national conditions that by this profession method directly. So, the genetic research will be a sign that generates a huge competition among the countries in the future. Meanwhile, it will become a kind of element industry in these countries sooner or later.
Not only does the genetic research have huge influences for government, also it has impact in the biology. Begin with 1985 which bring up the concept about genetic, the genetic research has experience been 26 years in this world.( Gene Targeting) Even though the genetic research technology is still an experimental stage item, it already make amount of contribute to anthropology, especially, two of the elements of this study-the history of human beings and genetics. In terms of the history of humans', it is not so difficult to figure out that genetic research is a key clue to open this study which includes the development of human being, the origin of modern humans, and the culture of human beings. Actually, the genetic research technology can be involving in bulk of anthropology in a sense. According to the report which named "the study of genetic groups", through some scientists' examination which continuing couple months, they gain some valuable achievement that from 3 hundred million base-pair in human's cell, more precisely, they use some special method to figure out three groups of genetic that named noncoding DNA.(China news) Meanwhile, the study finds these three of noncoding DNA cannot be find in Drosophila melanogaster, yeast or primate which the genetic group in their cell is similar to human's, the result indicate that why does human evolving to high level animals and much different from the others. The genetic research also assists some anthropologist to figure out the derivation of human being. In 1856, the fossil of human beings was recognized in Neanderthal valley which belongs to Germany, some individuals begin to focus on the origin of human beings. In that condition, some scientists use genetic research technology to analyze the structure of the protein and Nucleic acid.(Yongke Zhang) Actually, it was the first time that scientists could open the factor of derivation of human. In this study, some scientists make complete clear about "out of Africa theory" and "Theory of Multiregional Evolution", they can imagine a clear view about the human's derivation.
Furthermore, the genetic research study is used in human's culture field. According to the TIMES, the professor who worked in Stanford University anthropology, he believes that about 50 thousand to 100 thousand years ago, the individuals who lived on Africa land break out a culture revolution, and this revolution facilitated human get a special interaction ability-language. (Times) The factor is genic mutation, after this genetic storm, human began to have consciousness, the first step to shape language. The language is the origin of human society as well. Consequently, genetic technology could be crucial technology that helps human to be real human in a sense.
Along with the government and anthropology, the genetic research technology brings plenty of benefits to the life sciences and medicine. Individuals are happy to accept some genetic treatments to cure some serious disease. Also, the doctor prefer to choose this kind of method to save patient's life, because it is more efficient and safely. However, there are still someone oppose the genetic research to concern the general threaten of human's body. They believe that there are too many incredible reasons existed in this high end research, human have no right to put the life into the risk treatment that means play with previous life. Furthermore these people also believe that using genetic research into Life sciences and medicine to make some change with patients is an extremely risky activity, because it will broke the huge energy cycling which existed in the environment, after that it must be have a huge influence with human's daily life. As a matter of face, the genetic technology which operates in the Life sciences and medicine is closed to maturity and safety, meanwhile, some of serious disaster has to use this treatment to cure. Actually, some specially special agency have already use generic research to treat some disaster which is had to cure, recently, the Chinese Academy of Sciences claim that a special treatment had go through the examination some professional scientists in China, this special treatment which named Superconducting gene regulation therapy could control the epilepsy with some Coordinated role of Neural factor, on one hand, this treatment can produce some Biological effects to cure the disaster effective, it also can avoid the negative effect of the medicine with general control treatment.(Kaiyang Lu) After 8000 samples' examination, the successful percent closed to 95.3%, the world health organization said that these treatment could be a under pow which can fight with epilepsy.
Furthermore, the generic research some potential reason of some disease, it can help the doctor to make a special policy to beat with the disaster more efficient and safety. For instance, the scientists figure out the bulk of cancer are generated by genetic mutation, according to the "Biological herald " , it means that if human can avoid or control this kind of negative mutation, human will say goodbye to the cancer completely.( Science) In addition, through the biology industry developing, a variety of trans genetic food begin to involving human's daily life, it not only won't break the huge energy cycling, but also solving the starving issue which existed in this world, especially in china, as an Agricultural country, after using the trans genetic technology, the GM planting area approaching 84million hectares, comparing to 370million hectares in last year, it increasing so quickly. Meaningful, this performance solves million strong problems directly. (Science Times)
"Genetic food is healthy and delicious."
From: French artist Pierre Beteille.
Overall, it is certain that generic research as a new scientific research item that could beneficial to humans. Firstly, according to the government, on hand the generic can be used to beat with terrorists. On the other hand, it can promote the self-protected ability bat countries. Secondly, in terms of the anthropology, this high-end research can be a high efficient tool which can help human beings to figure out the structure of humans'. Thirdly, the modern medical community also cannot work without this research, since the scientists put some generic technology into the special treatment, human can defeat the diseases and have victory. In addition, agriculture reaps benefits from this research; it can solve the food shortage issue in a sense. Personally, genetic research technology as a fundamental industry can be involved in variety of aspect of humans' daily life incontrovertibly, not only impact in some significant studies, also but can facilitate the quality of human's life directly. As a meaningful item, the genetic research technology has fate of becoming a family member of human's life in the coming day.
Work cited
Skopeak Jeffrey. Studies in History & Philosophy of Biological & Biomedical Sciences website. Jun. 2011 Web< http://ehis.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=10&hid=1&sid=d8cd58a1-3ad3-415d-9354-d0de62b347ae%40sessionmgr10&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc3Qtb Gl2ZSZz Y29w ZT1za XRl#db=a9h&AN=59928907>
Hedley Douglas. Nature Reviews Cancer website. Nov. 2007 Web< http://ehis.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=7&hid=114&sid=a18d16fa-c77f-44d8-88e0-5b5d9d663c87%40sessionmgr104&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc3Qtb Gl2ZSZz Y29w ZT1za XRl#db=a9h&AN=27180871>
Weidong Hong. China news website. 17 Sep. 2009 Web< http://www.chinanews.com/jk/jk-xpxz/news/2009/09-17/1872439.shtml>
Science website. 15 Doc. 2007 Web<http://www.ebiotrade.com/newsf/2007-10/20071012172425.htm>
Kaiyang Yang. lnternational Bureau of Epilepsy website. 5 Aug. 2010 Web< http://news.39.net/a/201085/1430910.html>
Science Times website. 30 July. 2010 Web< http://www.enet.com.cn/article/2010/0730/A20100730700023_2.shtml>
Chad crane. TIMES website. 25 Feb. 2003 Web< http://tech.sina.com.cn/ae/2003-02-25/1104167764.shtml>
Yongke Zhang. Website. 17 Aug. 2010 Web< http://www.haodf.com/zhuanjiaguandian/zhangyk0802_176259.htm>
CERN. Website. 25 March. 2009 Web<http://history.huanqiu.com/today/2009-03/414243.html http
Peiyang Xu. Website. 8 Apr. 2010 Web< http://bbs.sciencenet.cn/home.php?mod=space&uid=280034&do=blog&id=310035>
National Human Genome Research Lnstitute website. Web< http://www.genome.gov/>
