Shopping online is the new concept of purchasing which became more and more popular in recent years. Shopping online means consumers can buy products, such as books, clothes, electrical appliances and so on through internet. Today, more and more people are buying products online, especially the young people. Many consumers say that the variety of goods and the low price of goods attract them to shop online. On the other hand, the quality of some products and safety of trade make a lot of people choose shopping in a store instead of shopping online. With the development in technologies in modern society, however, shopping online becomes more and more popular. There are four important factors that influence the growth of online sales: (a) availability of products, (b) convenience of purchasing, (c) price of goods and (d) safety of purchasing process (Chen, Hus & Lin, 2008). These four characteristics can help that shopping online brings more benefits than harms to online. The honesty between sellers and consumers can make the transaction even more successful. Therefore, because shopping online is convenient and safe way to shop that can save time and money more people should shop online
The first important factor that made shopping online very popular is availability of the products. According Chen, Hus, and Lin (2008), the variety of goods online can catch customers' eyes, and customers who shop online generally have more choices than they do when shopping in store. Although customers cannot find all kinds of products online, they still have many choices of goods because the variety of products sold online is much wider than that in the regular store. Customers can find goods which they want easily because the goods online are classified by different kinds. For example, if a boyfriend wants to give his girlfriend a surprise gift. He will have a lot more choices if he chooses to find the gift online (Si, 2008). A customer can search for some special items online such as the goods that have significant meanings for him or her. Customers can also find some products which are out of print online. For instance, an exchange student in Flagstaff wants to buy ethnic foods or other products. The student has to go to some big cities such as Phoenix, Los Angeles to find what he wants. If the student chooses shopping online, he or she just need a computer and will easy to find goods online. Because online consumers have more choices to choose from more people should shop online.
Convenience is another important factor that attracts consumers to shopping online. Shopping online not only saves time, but also saves effort for consumers to find products. Some people think that shopping should be done outside with friends because it is fun way to spend time together and a good chance to improve the friendship. However, not all the people have enough time to shop outside. Many people spend a lot of time to study or work. So shopping online is a good way for busy people to shop. In his article Cao (2005), writes that shopping online is convenient because time for online shopping is not limited by the store's business hours, and consumers can buy products anytime they want. Also, consumers can buy goods from anywhere through the internet. Shopping online can save a lot of travelling time because consumers who shop online do not need to go outside to many different stores, they can find goods through their computers. Shopping online is a way to save effort because consumers just need to sit in front of computer and use mouse to find goods online. At that time, consumers can do many other things such as drinking, eating and relaxing. Consumers can also compare goods easily when they shop online. Online shoppers can find a lot of goods in a short time and easily compare them to choose the best product with a click of a mouse (Chen, Hus, & Lin, 2008). For example, the main reason for shopping online among college students in China presented in Dr. Zhang's (2009) research was named the absence of time to do regular shopping. Table 1 shows the proportion of Chinese university students who use shopping online in order to save time, and effort, and find special commodities. As can be seen, while most of the Chinese students shop online because they have no time to go to the store, they also shop online because they think shopping online is convenient and easy way to find special or rare products. Therefore, shopping online offers a comfortable and convenient way to buy products, and services, and it is a good way to save time and effort.
Table 1
The different reasons for Chinese college students to shop online (Zhen, 2009)
The reason of shopping online Number of people Proportion
No time to go out 15 28%
Convenient way of shopping 10 22%
Popular way of shopping 6 10%
To find special or rare products 11 27.72%
Others 2 5%
The third important factor which catches many consumers' eyes is price of products because most people will pay attention to the price. Shopping online can help people not to spend more money. However, some people think shopping online is a waste of money because sellers online only have pictures and words to show their goods. These consumers say that the pictures and the words about the goods cannot show the product clearly, and therefore, shopping online cannot provide a real feeling like seeing or touching the real product. Perhaps some people will waste money on buying the low quality products, but overall shopping online saves money because almost all the goods online are cheaper than the same goods in the store (Lee, Cho, Chae, & Shim, 2010). In Chen, Hus, and Lin's article (2008), these authors write that people can find the same good sold by different sellers online. Then people can compare the prices in order to choose the best products. For example, Shortall's research (2010) shows that shopping online can help customers save up to 28% on electronic goods. Irish price-comparison website shows that electronics sold online were on average 12.4% cheaper than when bought in the store. There are many electronic goods online can save money, such as laptops, headphones, Blue-ray players, digital cameras and TV sets (Shortall, 2010). Because online shopping can save a lot of money, people who are not rich, mostly young people like students, will choose to shop online.
Last but not the least, the safety of purchasing online is an important factor which influences transaction. Because sellers can exaggerate the advantages of their products and make the picture look perfect (Stephen & Juhn, 2004). Therefore, customers cannot decide whether the product is good or not based on pictures and words without touch. Customers can compare much information on different website and look the review to choose the one they want. If they decide to buy a product, there are two ways to pay. One is using one's bank account; another is using one's credit cards. Both of these ways will require additional information, such as phone number, address, card number (Jarvenpaa & Todd, 1997). Therefore, older people often worry about their privacy because some online sellers may use money-making scams. Almost all online shopping involves customers paying money first, and then the seller will send the products to customer's house. Sometimes sellers just let people pay the money, and they may either not send the goods or send the products of low quality to customers. If the sellers cheat people for money, often people cannot do anything, because they have paid the money to the seller before they knew this was a fraud. However, according to Jarvenpaa and Todd, 1997, online customers can avoid such scams if they are careful with shopping online. For example, online shoppers can find a seller who has the high performance reviews from previous customers. Such reviews provide detailed information about helping customers to avoid dishonest sellers and improving their online shop experiences.
However, such scams are not too common while shopping online. Table 2 shows the number of customers consisting Chinese college students who became victims of money scams while shopping online in China in 2008 (Zhan, 2009). As can be seen, 93.18% of Chinese students had no experiences with fraud while shopping on the internet. Relatively speaking, this proportion demonstrates that shopping online is safe for customers. But there were 6.82% students who have been scammed, which shows that shopping online requires careful selection of the seller. Because the number of people who had experiences of deception is lower than the number of people who had not experiences deception while shop online shows that shopping online is a safe way to shop.
Table 2
Chinese students have the experience of deception or not.
Number of people Proportion
Experience of deception 3 6.82%
No experience of deception 41 93.18%
Many authors in their articles write that trust between a seller and a consumer is the most important factor (Sonja, 2002, Chiang, & Dholakia, 2003). Consumers and sellers can communicate with each other to discuss a way of shopping that both of them can accept. Sellers cannot use the false information to cheat consumers in order to sell the goods out. Consumers should believe the seller's information about the goods. The trust is the key to make the online transaction successful (Sonja, 2002). On the other hand, sending goods on time is another way to show the trust. Sending goods on time can also help to avoid consumer's unnecessary troubles. For instance, Chiang and Dholakia (2003), shows that a man buys an electronic dictionary online before he goes abroad. However, the seller does not send the product on time. The man has to buy another dictionary in store. For this way, the man not only wastes a lot of money to buy two electronic dictionaries but also wastes time to wait the dictionary at home. If the seller is an honest person, he will send the electronic dictionary on time and make the transaction successful.
Shopping online offers a variety of products to choose. This way of shopping is great way to purchase products for people who are busy and have no time to shop in a store. It is also very important that online shopping provides customers with many products at low prices, so people who are not rich like students can shop online to save money. However, to make online shopping a pleasurable experience, a customer needs to carefully select online sellers to prevent becoming victims of online money scams. Overall, the availability and price of products, the convenience and safety of purchasing the goods show that shopping online can help people to save time and money and will continue to grow.
