With the rapid development of the modern society and the increasing concern of the public security, more and more people are concerned with the issue of crime. In addition to crime, the punishment of offender comes to front as well. One of the punishments that had become a hot topic for discussion is the death penalty. The death penalty is a kind of death punishment which had been allowed in the law in many states and had been executed for many years. As an example, the death penalty has a long development history in Texas. According to Tarlton Law Library, "Between 1819 and 1923, Texas executed its death row prisoners by hanging." (tarlton.law.utexas.edu). It can be seen that the hanging had become the one of the way to execute the offenders during 1819 to 1923. Also a variety of methods of execution had been used in Texas. "Then, from 1924 to 1977, the electric chair became the legal means of execution. In 1977, execution by lethal injection became the legal method of enacting the death penalty in Texas." (tarlton.law.utexas.edu). The methods of execution had been changed since 1819 to 1977. New changes of the death penalty appeared currently. The purposes of death penalty are aligned with the following three statements: to punish a crime, to prevent its repetition, and to discourage crimes. In 2011, people will deserve death punishment if they violate the laws of which the death penalty is a punishment. The irreversible taking of a life is considered abhorrent in criminal justice systems, even if the equally cruel prospect of life imprisonment. People unwilling to accept themselves dead even if who commit a crime. With the development of the human civilization, the death penalty should be discussed well into conclusion.
The argument of death penalty sustained ever since the death penalty laws. "Whenever the word 'death penalty' comes up, extremists from both sides start yelling out their arguments." (No author, 2005). People stand for different position to discuses this debatable topic. Some people contend that the death penalty is necessary to punish the offenders in order to protect the innocent. However, others argue that the death penalty law is too cruel to execute. Undisputed, all of them consider the death penalty law is relentless method but one of the sides supports the death penalty, other of the side conflicts. This essay will reargue against the death penalty laws that execute for punish the offender to die. People should not suffer from a dead punishment which will despoil their life.
There are, however, a number of reasons for people who insist that the existence of the death penalty is important. The people hold one important reason to support the death penalty is the death penalty is a type of behavior which maintains justice and morality. From an academic journal, "Capital punishment permanently removes the worst criminals from society and should prove much safer for the rest of us . dead criminals can not commit any further crimes, either within prison or after escaping or after being released from it." (capitalpunishmentuk.org). It is illustrated from the citation that the death penalty is a symbol of justice. The death penalty eliminates criminals who lave harmful to society. Meanwhile, it is helping the recovery of morality.
The opposite view which people argument against the death penalty could maintain justice and morality. On the basis of one of the historical case, the victim James Mc Nicol is a typical manslaughter. "In a highly intoxicated state exacerbated by malaria medication, 30 years old Mc Nichol had fired a rifle . the shots killed his best friend and only injured Sgt. Cox. Mc Nichol was arrested the following day . completely unaware that he had killed his best mate." (capitalpunishmentuk.org). The most important one is the certainty that genuinely innocent people will be executed and that there is no possible way of compensating them for this miscarriage of justice. There is also another significant aspect. The person convicted of the murder may have actually killed the victim and may even admit having done so but does not agree that the killing was murder. The evidence of quotation makes clear that it is highly probable that people are convicted of murder when they should really have only been convicted of manslaughter. This kind of probable cannot explain that the death penalty is a symbol of justice. Moreover, there is the defect that innocent people could killed by the death penalty. The Troy Davis case is another sample. The difficulty of proving innocence once convicted: Troy Davis' long journey through the US judicial system has hit nearly every sensitive button in America's complex relationship with the death penalty. Chappaqua states, "Notwithstanding widespread concern about the Troy Davis case, we're doing much better at avoiding questionable executions with the help of DNA testing and multilevel review of the evidence and trial process" (Chappaqua, N.Y., 2011). To the judges, misjudgment would not cause harm to themselves. As well as the cost of test could be huge for those people that are misjudged. There fore, to some degree, the death penalty is harmful.
Moreover, the death penalty can be considered disrespectful to life. In Haag's academic journal, "Life in prison is still life, however unpleasant. In contrast, the death penalty does not just threaten to make life unpleasant-it threaten to take life altogether" (Conrad, J.P & Van Den Haag, E., 1983). Life is precious for most people, although to an offender. When facing the choice of life and death, the desire to survive is always strong. The offenders may get a change to see their family, if they can have life in prison. However, if the death penalty exists, the offenders have to say goodbye forever to their family. It is often very difficult for people to come to terms with the fact that their loved one could be guilty of a serious crime and no doubt even more difficult to come to terms with their death in this form. One cannot and should not deny the suffering of the victim's family in a murder case but the suffering of the murderer's family is surely valid too. There should always be concern that the state can administer the death penalty justly, most countries have a very poor record on this. Once the county gave victim the incorrect executed, their family could not stand that misjudgment caused dire consequence. In the other words, the justly of the death penalty was indulged in empty talk.
While, there are some people still insist that the existence of the death penalty is humanity. The existence of death penalty can be discussed in America. According to academic journal, "In America, a prisoner can be on death row for many years awaiting the outcome of numerous appeals, some of which are fatuous and filed at the last minute in order to obtain a stay of execution." (capitalpunishmentuk.org). It true gave prisoner another chance to obtain a stay of execution. However, most prisoners cannot seize the opportunity because that was too difficult to implore. Therefore, the useless discussion about executing prisoner is illusory policy which is not humanity from before mentioned. In addition to a lot thing as a humane method of putting a person to death irrespective of what the state may claim. The execution causes the prisoner suffering, some methods perhaps cause less than others, but be in no doubt that being executed is a terrifying ordeal for the criminal.
Recently, although racism is claimed in the administration of the death penalty in America, statistics show that white prisoners are more liable to be sentenced to death on conviction for first degree murder and are also less likely to have their sentences commuted than black defendants. Figure 1 this graph clear shows that the number of discrimination
Figure 1: EEOC Discrimination Cases since 2000 (Buono,2011)
case climbing fluctuated from 2000 to 2010. The execution of the death penalty needs to authentic fair for prisoner. If there are misjudgment, illusory humanity and discrimination in the death penalty, the death penalty would not be executed and the value of the death penalty would be worthless.
Despite this, another reason of people supports that the death penalty as a kind of deterrence for the offenders can efficiently reduce the crime rate. Radelet and Akers state, "Much of the support for capital punishment rests on its presumed value as a general deterrent: we need the death penalty to encourage potential murderers to avoid engaging in criminal homicide" (L. Radelet & L. Akers 1973). People believe that it not only could punish the offenders but deter the people who could commit a crime as well.
On the contrary, the research expressed that the crime rate still not decrease as before. According to Figure 2, it can be seen clear that the murder rate in death penalty states is higher than other states without the death penalty. Figure 2 this picture shows the whole murder rate declined during past 10 years whether it was in death penalty or not. This point is not to assume that the crime rate reduced because of the death penalty. This part effectively refuted people who think the death penalty could reduce the crime rate.
Figure 2: Murder rates in states with and without the death penalty. (Death Penalty Information Center, 2010)
Last but not least, some of the offenders are very talented people and maybe they are the experts in certain areas. Thus, if the death penalty can be pardoned, they can make contributions to the society by using the knowledge which they have. If they are executed by the death penalty, the county will sustain a great loss. According to the film The Green Mile, the story about the lives of guards on death row leading up to the execution of a black man accused of child murder and rape who has the power of faith-healing. The accessional aspect is that the black man was victim which means he did not murder or rape. However, his power had helped many people who had seriously disease. The black man in this film is a typical case which mention about the prisoner could contribute to the society as well as he was been misjudged. This is a strong evidence that query the justly of the death penalty again.
Overall, this essay is almost against the execution of the death penalty. Although there are following reasons that people think the death penalty law is necessary execution. One of the reasons is that the death penalty is a type of behavior which maintains justice and morality. Some people still insist that the existence of the death penalty is humanity as well. And they believe that the death penalty can efficiently reduce the crime rate. However, this essay efficient refuel above mentioned reasons. According to the two specific cases about James Mc Nicol and Troy Davis, the justly and morality of the death penalty cannot state very well. In addition to the two graphs, there are also actual evidences to refuel that the death penalty could reduce crime rate. Therefore, the benefit of the death penalty law is hard to existent. On the basis of this essay, people could disagree with the execution of the death penalty law.
