Computers in Classrooms
There has been a recant debate on the use of computers technology in higher education classrooms, considering the advantages and the disadvantages of using computers in classes. According to Kay and Lauricella 2011, who did a study to explore the benefits and the challenges of use laptops computer in higher education classrooms, they reported that most of the students commented on the study that using laptops during classrooms is very helpful. It has been proven that using laptops during classes requires a lot of discipline and maturity that not a lot of students have. The huge number of people who use the new power pads such as: i Pads and Galaxy tabs etc, make it important for educators to rethink about how to improve the education system by taking the most advantage of technology. If one considers the disadvantages of using computers in classrooms such as; using computers for non-academic reasons, getting distracted by other students laptops; and the advantages of using computers in classrooms such as: note-taking, academic activities, academic success and communication; it becomes apparent that students should be allowed to use their laptops during classes.
Despite the fact that using laptops in classrooms has many benefits. Some professors get disappointed about students who are not paying attention in class and use laptops for non-academic reasons (Al-Bataineh & Brooks,2003). Besides there are other challenges that might students' face in classrooms, such as: getting distracted by other students using laptops, sending or receiving non-academic e-mails between friends, playing games, watching movies or surfing the web(Kay & Lauricella,Table 3; Sample Comments,2011). As seen in Fig.1, some students would prefer to play games on laptops instead of taking notes. Which is disappointed, because students at this level of education should be more mature and more responsible. A brief study that has been done on students who comment on laptops not being helpful in classrooms, by Sharon Laurcella and Robin Kay from University of Ontario Institute of Technology. They did the study on 177 undergraduate students, . The result of that study shows the non-academic communication, watching movies and playing games as key distraction when using a laptop during class. Students reported communication (22%,n=24 comments), playing games (19%,n=21 comments), and to a lesser extent watching movies (10%,n=11 comments) as being distracting. In addition, a large group of students (27%,n=20 comments) noted that laptops were generally distracting during classes. Seven percent of the students(7%,n=8 comments) added that laptops limited their focus. Finally, surfing the web was acknowledged as being unhelpful by eight students (7%)( Lauricella & Kay, 2010). Which means the challenging behaviors were reported far less than benefits by a factor of almost 1:2, based on the students comments.
On the other hand, the same study showed clearly the benefits and the advantages of using laptops in higher education classrooms. "Research on benefits of laptop behaviors in classroom can be organized into five areas: taking notes, academic activities access to resources, academic success, and communication"( Lauricella & Kay, 2011). Taking notes by using a laptop could much easier than taking by taking notes by using papers for some students who type faster. However, some students prefer taking handwritten notes. Taking notes by using laptops or papers is issue, some students prefer this and some prefer that ( Lauricella & Kay, 2011). Some students claim that using laptops in classes was helpful because laptops allow students to follow along with the lecture. Furthermore, laptops are helpful to keep all notes organized( Kay & Lauricella,2011). As seen in Fig.2, many students are using their laptops in a big classroom. Which supports the side that agree on allowing students to use their laptops during classes.
One major challenge for students who want to use their laptops in classrooms is tech problems. For example some students could have problems accessing the internet. Also, if there would not be enough power outlets in classes. Many students do not prefer using laptops in classrooms because of the tech problems. Also, one of the disadvantages of using computers in classrooms has been noticed is the handwriting of higher education students who use computers are really bad, because of using keyboards ti type instead of writing. Moreover, many students complain that laptops are not helpful in class because if everyone closes their laptops, all in class will listen to professor instead of putting their concentration on laptops( Kay & Lauricella,; 2011).
Although these arguments do bear some merit, the benefits of using laptops in classes are outweigh the challenges. One of the benefits of laptops in classrooms is that students can do academic activities on them. For example, students will have access to resources directly on the lecture slides. Also, students can look at other academic resources online while taking notes on the lecture. Moreover, there are some activities that require having a laptop to do these activities ( Lauricella & Kay, 2011). Using laptops in classrooms could save many things, such as papers and carrying around several binders of notes. Also, it could save the most important thing which is the student's back( Kay & Lauricella, 2011). Alng the same lines, communication between students and teachers is much easier with computers. Students are able to communicate with their group members, and they can ask question by using instant messaging. Also, using computes in classrooms helps to understand how to use a computer better and improve typing skills( Al-Bataineh & Brooks, 2003).
For an expert view, I interviewed my ENG 105 teacher, Ms. Lynch to ask her about her opinion on the use of laptops in higher education classrooms. I asked Ms. Lynch if she prefer to use technology while giving lectures. She responds that she likes to use the projector to make things bigger on the screen to make sure everyone can see. However, Ms,Lynch said that she does not like to use the projector so much because the lights are off while using the projector and that make some students sleepy. Moreover, Ms. Lynch said that she would not prefer students in her class to use laptops. That because of the noise that could be made by the student's laptops. Also, she said that she will loss the eye contact, which according to her, is important.
Although I agree with Ms. Lynch up to a point, I really think that the benefits of using laptops in higher education classrooms outweigh the challenges. According to Al-Bataineh and Brooks 2003, studies showed that technology positively affects the students' attitudes toward school, self-image, and self-confidence. In addition, for technology to be effective in the classroom. The study suggested that teachers must be aware of how to deal with new technology (Al-Bataineh & Brooks, 2003). In fact, the same study suggested that in order to keep up with the new technology, classrooms management must change as students use i Pads and other individual power pads (Al-Bataineh & Brooks, 2003).
In conclusion, the study that Kay and Lauricella did to explore the benefits and the challenges of using laptops in higher education classrooms showed the benefits for example, note-taking was reported as the largest benefits of using laptops in classes. On the other hand, there are some challenges of using laptops in classes. Such as, the distraction that can be caused by other students on laptops. Which was reported as the most challenging things. However, based on the studies and research were done on this topic, it has been approved that the benefits of using laptops in higher education classrooms outweigh the challenges( Kay & Lauricella, 2011). In addition, using laptops in classrooms requires a lot if discipline and maturity that not a lot of students have. Specially because teachers can not patrol and check on all the students if they are using laptops in decent way or not. As seen in Fig.1, couple of students were playing games during a class. Despite the chance that students will not use laptops in academic way, students should be allowed to use laptops in higher education classrooms.
