Pre-marital Sex and Marriage
Cultures are known to be different from region to region. Some people consider sex before marriage (premarital sex) as a freedom. On the other hand, some people consider it as a taboo. In general, that is different in each culture. When I first came to the United States from Saudi Arabia, I noticed that people have more sexual liberties, as for other liberties that are considered unmentionable in my country. For example, couples in the United States are allowed to hug and kiss each other in public. However, in Arabic culture, people are not allowed to display affection in public even if they are married because that what the old Arabic culture has taught them about proper public behavior. Even though cultures and religions are different from one country to another; premarital sex will be found around the world because that is a primary human instinct.
So why in the rest of world do individuals believe that pre-marital sex is okay? After talking with a group of American men and women, I found a series of the same reoccurring answers to this question. One reason that was a popular answer was to be able to "test drive" sex before marriage to know what they are doing. The reasoning of this response was that the sexual chemistry between two individuals is very important during a relationship or marriage. In addition to this answer, 7 out of the 12 individuals I was talking to did not regularly attend a church or practice a religion. Whether this has an effect on their sexual practices is not certain. Despite what Americans choose to do, Saudi Arabians that are here in the United States should not feel obligated to commit to sex before marriage because of religious reasons, health risks, and possible marriage problems.
Every year, the Saudi Arabian government gives a lot of scholarships for young Saudis to study abroad for about thirty different countries around the world, and most of them are in the western countries. I appreciate king Abdullah bin Abdullaziz for those scholarships, and I believe those scholarships will develop Saudi Arabia more and more. However, these scholarships made the Western culture influenced in some young Saudis minds, and sometimes that made them departed from the Saudi law. For example, having sex between non-married couple is a crime in the Saudi law, which is referring to the Islamic law, and many young Saudis, who influenced from the western culture, start thinking that premarital sex is a good way to get an experience before getting married. So, I believe that the western culture is the main thing that influenced in the young Saudis minds.
First of all, premarital sex is forbidden in almost all religions. For example, Islam has banned premarital sex for many reasons. First of all the banning of premarital sex is to protect people from mixing lineage and families that are not otherwise approved or accepted into the family heritage. Family is a very important entity that is viewed as a very sacred thing in Muslim life. The second point is to save the rights of women. Many non-Muslims think that Islam does not give women their rights, simply because the customs of Saudi and Muslim life is different than everyday life in the United States and all over the rest of the world. To be Muslim does not mean that we give women restricted rights. The customs that we implement in everyday life is displayed directly from what Muslims have learned in our religion. That is wrong that other people have this opinion about Muslims and our culture. Islam law gives all people their individual rights, but the problem that people see from the outside the practices of old Arabic culture instead of what Islam tells them to practice. A lot of non-Muslims have these opinions of how we treat women differently is also because the media has only focused on the faults of women rights. The final point is to protect and educate individuals from venereal diseases. So, this example talked about Islam, which is the only religion in Saudi Arabia, and one hundred percent of Saudis are Muslim. Consequently, premarital sex is unlawful in most religions, so people should follow their religious beliefs that gave them the great advices to live their best life to the best of their ability.
In result, premarital sex causes many health risks to many couples. Recently, sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and abortions are becoming more common throughout the United States. The Guttmacher Institute stated that, "At least half of American women will experience an unintended pregnancy by age 45, and, at current rates, one in 10 women will have an abortion by age 20, one in four by age 30 and three in 10 by age 45." Unintended pregnancy is the one of few reasons women will have an abortion performed. Another reason for a woman to get an abortion would be if the medical condition of the woman is poor, or if the child is going to be born with a known disability or medical condition. Also, every individual knows how dangerous sexually transmitted diseases are. Premarital sex with several partners is the major cause of STDs, especially with young people. The Center for Disease control states that in young people aged 20-45, STDs are one of the most dangerous health encounters facing the country today. "CDC estimates that there are 19 million new infections every year in the United States." Research shows that, young people are at very high risk of getting STDs (Mcllhaney 2004).
In fact, there are many kinds of STDs, such as Herpes, Syphilis, and HIV/AIDS. However, these diseases vary in how dangerous they are, some of them are pathogenic to humans and some could potentially cause problems in the reproductive system, nervous system, and overall health for both genders. In addition, premarital sex is one of the most causes for abortion because when an unwanted pregnancy happened for a girl that is non-married, abortion will be her best choice to protect her honor from this life. After an abortion, no one will know how her reproductive health will be, and how she will be viewed in the community to be a potential suitor. In fact, the number of Saudis that have sexually transmitted diseases is not that immense of a number, but the problem is that this number is increasing. According to Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation in the article, Saudi Arabia to Require Mandatory HIV Testing for Couples Before Marriage: "About 11,000 HIV/AIDS cases were reported in the country between 1984, when the first case was recorded, and the end of 2005." In comparison, by the end of 2005 the CDC released an estimated number of cases of HIV/AIDS in the United States from the ages of 13-65. This number was a dramatic 37,367 cases, nearly 25,000 more cases in the United States just in the year of 2005 than in the span of 20 years in Saudi Arabia. Generally, I believe that premarital sex can be the main reason for many diseases that deaden a lot of people by direct or indirect ways, so people have to stop these diseases by stopping premarital sex.
Finally, premarital sex often causes a lot of turmoil in marriage by direct or indirect ways. May be premarital sex is not the main reason, but I believe that premarital sex is one of the most effective reasons. According to the BBC news in the article, Divorce study in Saudi Arabia: "The report from the sociology department of King Saud University in Riyadh said that the Saudi courts grant between twenty-five and thirty-five divorces a day, with most occurring in the first three years of marriage." The number is really big comparing to the Saudi Arabian population, which is about twenty-one million, and the premarital sex is one of the reasons that caused that number. An article in the Journal of Marriage and the Family reinstates this issue. The breaking of traditions in the lifestyle of many individuals can be an indirect cause to the increase of divorces. The act of premarital sex constitutes that the willingness to break the norms of traditions and intervening in behaviors after marriage. Another example that shows how premarital sex effects in marriages is cohabitation. About thirty years ago, a big number of Americans start preferring the cohabitation than getting married. According to Amy Jo Browne in her article, Why people don't marry any more: "Cohabitation is when a couples live together rather then get married and it is more common today it seems then getting married" (1). In Saudi Arabia, there is cohabitation, but with another name and another way to make the cohabitation legal in the Saudi constitution, and that called "Mesyar Marriage." Thus, if people ask why a lot of people got divorce or do not get married? One of the effective answers will be because they no longer have their sexual pleasure restricted before they get married so they can have sex with many different men or women with the freedom of multiple partners.
People always argue that sex before marriage may have a lot of benefits, so that can make them live so happy with their lovers, and can enjoy their relationship; also, that gives them a lot of experiences in their marriage, so they also can enjoy their marriage. Actually, I believe that love is one of the most amazing things in this life, but if people think that they have to have sex with their lovers to prove that their love is true, that is extremely wrong because there are many ways to prove love. In addition, premarital sex is not the only thing that gives us experiences in marriages, there are many things that give these experiences, and I believe that couples can get more than these experiences while they are married. Marriage is the union between not only two individuals, but the union of two lives. Marriage is learning to cope and reason with another human being and is far from just having one sexual partner for life.
In conclusion, following the religious terms is an important point to save people from troubles, so if they did not have the premarital sex, they would not have those health risks and those marriage problems. Also, premarital sex is the most destroyer subject for many societies because it kills a lot of people. However, imagine the life without this destroyer, life will be more and more beautiful with less criminals and social problems. Finally, I believe that premarital sex is bad as Ricky Faulkner said in his article, Should People Have Sex before Marriage?: "Sex between two virgins complete the most special of relationships."
