Life is sacred. People always care about things about life, so euthanasia is. Euthanasia is a word from the Greek, which means "good death". In the Merriam-Webster On-line dictionary, the definition of euthanasia is "the act or practice of killing or permitting the death of hopelessly sick or injured individuals (as persons or domestic animals) in a relatively painless way for reasons of mercy" (www.merriam-webster.com). People who request euthanasia always have an incurable disease. It is always the final choice of the people who want to relieve their suffering. Euthanasia can be divided into three categories: "Euthanasia conducted with the consent of the patient is termed voluntary euthanasia. Euthanasia conducted where the consent of the patient is unavailable is termed non-voluntary euthanasia. Euthanasia conducted against the will of the patient is termed involuntary euthanasia" (Wikipedia.org). Involuntary euthanasia is widely forbidden and opposed, because it seems criminal. Non-voluntary euthanasia is known as mercy killing (Wikipedia.org), and it is not allowed anywhere except in the Netherlands. There are many places that voluntary euthanasia is legal, so voluntary euthanasia is the issue people debate most.
Since the "Ballot Measure 16 in 1994 established the Oregon Death with Dignity Act" (Wikipedia.org), there have been more and more areas approving euthanasia. However, this raises more and more arguments. Few people are neutral. Most of the public is split on this issue, and people always debate over the law, ethics, and religious beliefs, etc. There are still many states that have not legalized euthanasia. So the public should think clearly about this issue: Should euthanasia be legalized? Is it necessary to legalize euthanasia? There are a lot of problems that come with euthanasia, such as the slippery slope and destroying the trust of patients. Moreover, it will not lead a good death, and there is palliative care which can take the place of euthanasia. This essay will argue on these points to explain why euthanasia should not be legalized.
There is a famous case in United States, which caused a lot of arguments, the Terri Schiavo case: Terri Schiavo suffered massive brain damage, and became a vegetative patient. In 1998 Terri's husband petitioned the Sixth Circuit Court of Florida to remove her feeding tube. But he was opposed by her parents. Finally, the feeding tube was moved:
On February 25, 2005, a Pinellas County judge ordered the removal of Terri's feeding tube. Several appeals and federal government intervention followed, which included U.S. President George W. Bush returning to Washington D.C. from a vacation to sign legislation designed to keep Terri alive. After all attempts at appeals through the federal court system were unsuccessful, Terri's feeding tube was disconnected on March 18, 2005. Terri died at a Pinellas Park hospice on March 31. (Wikipedia.org)
It was a sad case. Schiavo was innocent, why should she be euthanized? How could her husband know she did not want to live? What are the criteria that the court depends on? These questions are what Lindsay Hampson and Ezekiel J. Emanuel are concerned about:
First, there are no substantive criteria for when to terminate care in the case of individuals who are incompetent and have not left advance directives. Furthermore, data show that leaving the decision to patients' family members or other proxies is less than perfect because surrogate decision makers do not necessarily know the wishes of the patient. (974)
Hampson and Emanuel believe that there are no criteria for when to terminate care and Terri's husband would not know her wish exactly. So it is a big mistake to euthanize her. Public should protect the innocent who are similar with Terri from being killed, because there is a little evidence to show patients want to die. That is why euthanasia should not be legalized, because if it was legalized, there would be more cases similar with this one.
People who suffer terminal illnesses deserve sympathy. There are many people supporting euthanasia because of sympathy for the patients. Have they thought if euthanasia can ensure a good death? There is a research done by Johanna H. Groenewoud, Agnes van der Heide, etc; who analyzed data from two studies of euthanasia in the Netherlands with 649 cases. They have found that patients might need more time to die when they were euthanized: "We found that there were sometimes clinical problems with the performance of physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia. The problems reported by physicians frequently concerned a longer-than-expected interval between the administration of the lethal drug and the patient's death" (551). Groenewoud and Heide report that even euthanasia will take longer time than expected to make people die. In addition, it does not only take long time, but also makes patient painful. Richard Fenigsen states:
Euthanasia is supposed to spare the sick person the agony that precedes death or the sufferings of a prolonged illness. But this is not the case. When Wibo van den Linden filmed one patient's preparations for 'voluntary' euthanasia, about a million Dutch television viewers watched the unfortunate lady's anguish and despair as the fixed day of execution approached. Euthanasia causes extreme psychological suffering--the excommunication, the exclusion of a person from the community of the living while he is still alive. (26)
Fenigsen reports that euthanasia will cause both physical and psychological suffering. It's not pretty to watch patients struggle with suffering for a long time to die. It is not a death with dignity, so people who support euthanasia should think clearly about that.
Euthanasia may destroy the trust of patients in the medical profession. The patients always trust physicians to cure them or relieve their pain. What if euthanasia is legalized? If euthanasia is legalized, patients want suicide and physicians will help them. But the physicians will be innocent after euthanizing patients. If some irresponsible physicians do not want to treat the patients again, they might find a way, a way to stop contact with patients. Evidence shows that there are irresponsible doctors who decide when a patient lives or dies in the UK: "An Age Concern dossier in 2000 showed that doctors put Do Not Resuscitate orders in place on elderly patients without consulting them or their families" (BBC.com). This happened in UK where euthanasia is not legalized. If it is legalized, it may become worse. Irresponsible doctors also can hint to patients that they are impossible to be cured; they are going to die, and then they can hint to them to make a decision about suicide or euthanasia. It is a possible way, so the patients may be aware of this and worry about this. Some of them may think the physicians want them to die when even physicians do treat them well. Then the trust of patients is destroyed. It is a very dangerous thing when patients do not trust their physicians, who should be trusted to treat them? Leon Kass, former Chairman of the President's Council on Bioethics also believes that it will damage the relationship between patients and physicians if physician-assisted suicide is legalized: "Consider first the damaging consequences for the doctor-patient relationship. The patient's trust in the doctors' wholehearted devotion to the patient's best interests will be hard to sustain once doctors are licensed to kill" (472). What this means is that the doctor should not be allowed to euthanize patients because it will damage the trust of patients with their physician. And this may lead to a terrible result. So people should avoid this; they should not allow euthanasia to be legalized.
A lot of people believe that if the voluntary euthanasia were to become legal, then it would become a potential disaster. It will become worse and could even lead to involuntary euthanasia, which is a slippery slope argument. Something is considered to be a slippery slope when there is the potential for very bad or dangerous consequence. In this case, it is very dangerous, because voluntary euthanasia is that patients can decide their life, if it turns to involuntary euthanasia, which patients have no choice to end their life, patients say: "I do not want to die." Doctors: "Sorry, you are dead." Even patients cannot decide life by themselves. This is a horrible thing! Also if the slippery slope happens, euthanasia will be abused. Holland legalized euthanasia in 2002, has slippery slope happened in Holland? Here is some evidence from Stephen Smith:
One can also find evidence of a slide in some of the Dutch case law, particularly the Chabot and Sutorious cases. In the Chabot case, a doctor, Chabot, assisted a patient who was not suffering from any physical ailment. Instead, she wished to die because she had lost both of her sons and was suffering from grief. The court stated that there was no requirement that suffering be physical (or even terminal) and that Chabot had not done something wrong on this ground. In Sutorious, a doctor assisted a patient who wanted to commit suicide, not because of any psychiatric or physical illness but for what has been called 'social decline'. In essence, the patient wanted to die because he felt he had a 'pointless and empty' existence. Three experts at trial testified that the patient was suffering intolerably and the court acquitted the doctor. (41)
According to the evidence that Smith gives, two people who were in mental pain were allowed to be euthanized. It is obvious that Dutch courts allowed euthanizing people who were not terminally ill but wanted to die. Even though there was no involuntary euthanasia, it had evolved from euthanasia for physical illness to euthanasia for psychological distress. Grief is temporary; when they are in the middle of grieving, psychiatrist also can treat them. It is not the time to ask to die. People do not want to see the horrible consequence of slippery slope applied to euthanasia. So why people should trust that euthanasia will not be affected when slippery slope has already happened?
Some terminally ill patients cannot bear extreme pain; they want to find a way to relieve the pain. Some patients who were abandoned by families and friends, they are poor, lonely, and unhappy; they find living is such a bad thing for them. Both of these two kinds of people always will think about euthanasia, they think it is the only way they can go. For improving the quality of their life, and avoid choosing death, palliative care may become a good choice for them. Palliative care may be defined as: "The active total care of patients with life-limiting disease, and their families, by a multiprofessional team, when the disease is no longer responsive to curative or life-prolonging treatments" (Foley and Hendin 2). The purpose of palliative care is to relieve the suffering and improve the quality of life. However, the aim of palliative care is far beyond relieving the physical pain: "It seeks to integrate physical, psychological, social and spiritual aspects of care so that patients may come to terms with their impending death as fully and constructively as they can (Figure 1.1)" (Foley and Hendin 2). Palliative care is complex, which includes physical, psychological, social and spiritual aspects of care. According to the figure Foley and Hendin give, hope, honesty, and openness are essential parts of palliative care; and it relieves suffering in comprehensive ways.
Living with loved people for the rest of life is a kind of way of palliative care: "Effective palliative care gives the patients and their loved ones a chance to spend quality time together, with as much distress removed as possible. They can use this time to bring any unfinished business in their lives to a proper closure and to say their last goodbyes" (BBC.com). This makes them not feel lonely and gives them hope for life. With physical treatment, it will relieve both physical illness and psychological distress. Good palliative care may prevent patients contemplating euthanasia. So it is a good option for terminally ill patient because it can make them feel less pain and have a better quality life without death.
In addition, if euthanasia is legalized, it will undermine the quality of palliative care, because if there is euthanasia, why the physicians should worry about palliation? Kathleen Foley and Herbert Hendin present that: "Given legal sanction, euthanasia, intended originally for the exceptional case, has become an accepted way of dealing with serious or terminal illness in the Netherlands. In the process, palliative care has become one of the casualties, while hospice care has lagged behind that of other countries"(132). According to Foley and Hendin, the quality of palliative care in the Netherland where euthanasia is legalized, is lagging, because few people will think about palliative care when they have euthanasia. Competent palliative care is enough to prevent contemplating euthanasia and give patients a good life. But legalizing euthanasia will make people forget palliative care and undermine it. Why should people legalize it?
Euthanasia has been argued about a long time. It should not be legalized because there are many serious problems. Euthanasia may not lead to a good death. If patients will die with pain and without dignity, why should patients want this? There was slippery slope in the Netherlands, why should people trust euthanasia? Euthanasia also possibly damages the trust of patients in the medical profession. What if patients do not trust their physician? These are all the public should think clearly about. Palliative care is a good way for patients to relieve suffering without death. It cares for patients in physical, psychological, social and spiritual aspects to maximize relieving the suffering. And it is more moral. When science and technology are rapidly developing, the medical conditions will be better. Palliative care also will be better and better. Choosing death is always the worst way to go. The public should care about terminally ill patients; a survey showed that terminally ill patients spent the majority of their time on their own, with few visits from medical personnel or family members (BBC.com). If people move the attention on euthanasia to palliative care or any other way to improve the quality of patients' lives, they will feel much better, never think about euthanasia, and die with dignity truly. So do not choose euthanasia, make a choice for life.
Work cited
"Euthanasia." Ethics guide, BBC Online. 2010. Web. 20 Nov. 2010. <http://www.bbc.co.uk/ethics/euthanasia/>
"Euthanasia." Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation. 6 October 2010. Web. 20 Oct. 2010
"Euthanasia." Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2010. Merriam-Webster Online 20 Oct. 2010 <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/euthanasia>
Fenigsen, Richard. "A Case against Dutch Euthanasia." The Hastings Center Report 19.1(1989): 22-30. Print.
Foley, Kathleen., and Herbert Hendin. The Case Against Assisted Suicide: For the Right to End-of-Life Care. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2002. Web. 29 Nov. 2010 < http://site.ebrary.com/lib/nau/doc Detail.action>
Groenewoud, Johanna H., et al. "Clinical Problems with the Performance of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the Netherlands." New England Journal of Medicine 342. 8 (2000): 551-556. Print. 18 Nov. 2010.
Hampson, Lindsay A., and Ezekiel J. Emanuel. "The Prognosis For Changes In End-Of-Life Care After The Schiavo Case." Health Affairs 24. 4 (2005): 972-975. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 17 Nov. 2010.
Kass, L.R. "Why doctors must not kill." Commonweal 118. 14 (1991): 8. Print.
Smith, Stephen W. "Evidence for the Practical Slippery Slope in the Debate on Physician-Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia." Medical Law Review 13. 1 (2005): 17-44. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 18 Nov. 2010.
"Terri Schiavo case." Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation. 14 November 2010. Web. 17 Nov. 2010
Twycross, Robert G. Introducing Palliative Care. Oxford: Radcliffe Medical Press, 2003. Web. 29 Nov. 2010 <http://books.google.com/books?id=Ym Mw Vn GTNi YC&source=gbs_navlinks_s>
