Unprotected premarital sex can lead to premarital pregnancy. This has many problems associated with it. Young women have to face public pressures, health dangers, and even legal punishment. In addition, the young mothers may suffer from difficulties while raising their babies, often because unwed mothers cannot feed them or have employment, and may bear economic pressures. How can they raise two or more people without any financial help from others? The people who hold conservative cultural views do not tolerate premarital pregnancies, and this behavior is unforgivable. Some studies reveal that these negative effects are caused by premarital pregnancy. Many people do not want to see the negative effects of premarital pregnancy, only the positive. According to certain laws and policies, premarital pregnancy has the potential to cause young couples to perform illegal acts, such as late-term abortion. Unfortunately, some studies show that the number of premarital pregnancies is huge and increasing. More and more people are focusing on the problems caused by premarital pregnancy, which is at the hub of public attention. Preventing premarital pregnancy is necessary and can effectively reduce some problems caused by the situation.
Teenage pregnancy is a very serious problem worldwide. Around the world, young women re becoming mothers.
"13 million children are born to women under age 20 worldwide, more than 90% in developing countries. Complications of pregnancy and childbirth are the leading cause of mortality among women between the ages of 15 and 19 in such areas. The highest rate of teenage pregnancy in the world is in sub-Saharan Africa, where women tend to marry at an early age. In Niger, for example, 87% of women surveyed were married and 53% had given birth to a child before the age of 18. The teenage birth rate in the United States is the highest in the developed world, and the teenage abortion rate is also high. " (http://en.wikipedia.org)
The data show how serious this issue is. The data display the high percentage of the unwed mother in the developing countries, the young ages of unwed mothers and the high U.S teen birthrate. All the amazing number is warning the public to pay attention to the issue. This problem not only exists in several counties, it's a global problem. In every continent, premarital pregnancy is a serious problem. In the other word, young women all over the world face this issue, and suffer from the effects of premarital pregnancy. This issue can not be ignored. The public needs to take some measures to keep it under control.
The conservation culture means the traditional view. Holding this kind of view, people are very limited in lots of rulers. Only under the limitations, their behaviors are allowed. The liberal culture stands for the freedom, few limitations and culture. In the liberal view, people hold relax and accepted attitude to things. And they won't be critical to most of things.
In China, most of people are affected by the conservative culture. If young girls are pregnant, they will be faced with great pressures, prejudice, and the antipathy from society. In the traditional view of the Chinese, these unwed mothers are immoral and have serious problems with their personalities. All this pressures from the public can make these young women feel confused and crazy. This is an interview of a college student. In 2009, a pregnant freshman girl at the Beijing City University couldn't stand the pressure from her schoolmates, teachers, and family, so she jumped down from the top floor of the dormitory, and killed herself and unborn baby. This incident shocked the whole university and became the center of public attention. The traditional culture doesn't tolerate premarital pregnancy. Because this is forbidden for most Chinese people, they are the guilty in the eyes of people; people criticize and make unwed mothers feel ashamed. In America culture, some people hold on open-mind, so the public will hold an accepting view of the unwed mother. But, the teenage birth rate and abortion rate in America are very high. Besides, the condemning from the conservative culture, there are also still negative effects caused by the premarital pregnancy.
In an earlier article by the senior author, it was reported that premarital conception was involved in approximately 20% of all first births within marriage. Some experts point out that the phenomenon of premarital pregnancy as a factor in divorce, viewing the latter as an index of marriage failure. (Child Spacing) Having a baby means a couple world changes to the three people family, the baby become the hub of the family. The romantic love and free style life disappeared. There looks like just pay all attention to look after the baby is the only thing they can do. Taking care of the baby becomes the whole life of the young parents. The parents do not eat until the baby finish. At night, no matter what parents are doing, they have to look after the baby immediately when they heard the baby crying. All the great changes after having a baby become the pressures and the challenges to the young parents in their daily life. Unfortunately, facing these hard jobs which they have to do, the young parents become less patient and easily angry. In this condition, argues and the fights can not be avoided. Premarital pregnancy, small children and babies cause marriages to be in danger of failing. This failure of marriage does not develop a relaxed positive environment for young mothers. The public pressure about divorce and the exhaustion caused by looking after the baby and arguing with their husband can make the young mothers confuse and nervous. Outside of marriage premarital pregnancy has many negative effects for the babies and unwed mothers. Pregnant young women may have depression and anxiety, sleep disorders and disturbances, and substance abuse. According to a survey, all of these are main negative effects for the unwed mothers, and harm to both physical and mental. Poor and unstable condition of healthy and weak spirit will exist among pregnancy. The unwed mother needs to adjust attitudes and focus on the changes in physical and mantel. If unwed mothers keep depression and substance abuse for a long time, they will be danger and even get sequel. (http://baby.sina.com.cn) Even if the young mothers do not keep their babies, there still negative effects. They can give the child up for have an abortion. Abortion can lead to health dangers. Jacob M. Appel believes that "The reality is that null parity may be related to an increase in breast cancer, so women who abort and never have another child may lose the protective effect that pregnancy has on estrogen levels and breast tissue." (http://www.huffingtonpost.com) According to the Jacob M. Appel's words, adoption is an important factor to breast cancer. Because of adoption, the women lose the protective effect, which means increase the possibility of getting breast cancer. The breast cancer is a great danger to the female. Clearly, the abortion is really harmful to the women. These consequences influence young people to refuse to have premarital sex. (http://www.prlog.org) Obviously, the mirage says no to premarital pregnancy. What's more, the premarital pregnancy may break the laws and policies.
In China, if a couple wants to have their own baby; they have to get married first. Having babies outside the marriage goes against the policy of Family Planning. (http://www.gov.cn) In this way, it is illegal and the unwed mothers are guilty. The rigorous and cruel realities pull the unwed mothers into an awkward and passive condition. They only have two choices; one choice is to get married, the other choice is having an abortion. In the United Stated, In fact, the unwed mothers can have their babies instead of performing abortions. "The U.S. Senate on October21, 2003 elected 64 to 34, to pass a bill banning late term abortion."(http://www.people.com.cn) This policy means that abortions are illegal. Some of people think that the unborn baby fetus is a human life, and making abortions is against the nature, and even can be viewed as murder. The babies have the right to live in the world. So that means that if an unwed mother wants to give up the unborn baby will be punished in American.
There are some measures can be taken to control the issue. The first thing need to do is to focus on sex education amongst teenagers and other youth. Through this necessary education, a healthy and correct attitude about sex will be built. Second, when youth are prepared to engage in a sexual relationship, they need to take action to protect the woman and avoid pregnancy, such as condom, diaphragm, oral contraceptives, and intrauterine device, or IUD. (http://www.ehow.com) All of these measures can help the women to avoid pregnancy. Finally, the government needs to set up a specific department to help young pregnant women. Sex education will take a long time to work, and maybe in short period of time it will not work, but we need a consistent way to solve the issue of premarital pregnancy.
(http://ehis.ebscohost.com/ehost)
(Effectiveness of Planned Teaching Program) This is a bar graph which reveals information about the condition of the adolescent girls in sex education. The chart clearly shows the percentages of the pretest and the post-test among the adolescent girls. Obviously, the situation of the post-test is better than the pretest, so the effects of sex education are obvious. Correct sex education is a good way to solve this problem. The condom and other contraceptives are effective and convenient ways to solve the issue, but some pills and other birth control methods will be harmful to women. "Women who used these hormones before menopause had elevated risks, but the harmful effects began to decline with age after menopause."(Age and Menopausal Effects) The facts warn the women to be careful when they decide to use some pills which exists some hormones inside. The negative effects are irreversible and destructive. The specific government department can help the unwed mothers, but cannot control the increasing trend of the undesired condition of premarital pregnancy. The specific department like Planned Parenthood contributes lots of for the women. "We are a trusted health care provider, an informed educator, a passionate advocate, and a global partner helping similar organizations around the world. Planned Parenthood delivers vital reproductive health care, sex education, and information to millions of women, men, and young people worldwide." The jobs of the department include providing trusted community health care, informing and educating the community, leading the reproductive health and rights movement, advancing global health. (http://www.plannedparenthood.org) Their jobs can solve all the problems the women could face, and give suggestion to the women. This apartment is a outstanding representative of this kind of institution.
The problem of premarital pregnancy can be solved in many different ways. If it is further regulated, premarital pregnancy will be prevented and reduced in conservative and liberal cultures. Based on the mentioned idea, premarital pregnancy is more negative than the positive for unwed mothers, families and society. The traditional culture always judges the behavior with a critical attitude. Moreover, for the pregnant young women, the only thing that can do is to wait to be judged by the public. They do not have any opportunity to defend themselves. They are guilty, and unforgivable. The negative effects caused by premarital pregnancy interfere to unwed mothers' normal lives. The difficulties and pressures can make them confuse and crazy. Also, if the behavior breaks the laws and policies of a conservative government, the punishments will be very strict for the mothers. This is the best option because the negative effects far outweigh the positive effects. Overall, avoiding premarital pregnancy is the best option because the negative effects of pregnancy far outweigh the positive.
Work Cited
"Abortion's Harmful Effects on Parenting Are Severe, Study Says." <http://www.prlog.org > (2009): n. pag. Web. 18 Nov. 2010.
Appel M. Jacob. "Abortion: A Healthy Choice.'' <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jacob-m-appel/abortion-a-healthy-choice_b_316825.html>. Web. 7 Dec. 2010.
Christensen, Harold T., and Hanna H. Meissner. "Studies in Child Spacing: III-- Premarital Pregnancy as a Factor in Divorce." American Sociological Review 18. 6 (1953): 641-644. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 18 Nov. 2010.
"How to Avoid Pregnancy." < http://www.ehow.com/how_2095230_avoid-pregnancy.html >. Web. 7 Dec. 2010.
"Negative Effects and Adoption."<http://baby.sina.com.cn>. Web. 7 Dec. 2010.
Ou, Ye. "U.S. Anti-Abortion Bill Passed." <http://www.people.com.cn>: (2003): Web. 18 Nov. 2010.
Raddi, Sudha A., Ashakumari H. Rajaput, and Sangeeta N. Kharde. "Effectiveness of Planned Teaching Program (PTP) on Knowledge of Sex Education among Adolescent Girls." Journal of South Asian Federation of Obstetrics & Gynecology 2. 1 (2010): 85-88. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 7 Dec. 2010.
PRC. Population and Family Planning Law of the PRC. , <http://www.gov.cn >. 2005. Web. 18 Nov. 2010.
Sumitra, Shantakumar, et al. "Age and Menopausal Effects of Hormonal Birth Control and Hormone Replacement Therapy in Relation to Breast Cancer Risk." American Journal of Epidemiology 165. 10 (2007): 1187. Academic Search Complete. EBSCO. Web. 7 Dec. 2010.
"Teenage Pregnancy." < http://en.wikipedia.org >. Web. 18 Nov. 2010.
"Who We Are." <http://www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/who-we-are-4648.htm>. Web. 7 Dec. 2101.
