What do you think about the death penalty, cruel or humane? The death penalty, also known as the capital punishment, is the legal punishment of death. Crimes that can result in a death penalty are known as capital crimes or capital offences. Therefore, a capital crime originally was to be punished by the loss of the head. The death penalty is the most severe criminal law in all legal system. Because of the effect of the death penalty, all of the countries attach importance to it in the past. With the development of society, now most of people begin to call in question about the effects, being and meaning. The death penalty debate in the entire world is dominated by the fraudulent voice of the anti-death penalty movement. There has been a debate whether or not the death penalty should be used. Many studies think that keep the death penalty because to abolish it is humane and just for the criminals. If the governments abolish the death penalty, it will bring many questions such as will it increase crime rate? Does the government pay too much money for criminals' housing? How can the victim's family be placated? Others studies support that to abolish the death penalty is the necessary trend in modern society. It violates the right to life as proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; it also can't achieve one's aim; the criminals couldn't make up their crime etc. Over the past few years, many state's legislatures have debated and voted on this issue, more and more countries begin to abolish the death penalty in the criminal law.
Every country has its own law for the death penalty and it's different from others countries. Among countries around the world, almost all European and Canada have abolished capital punishment. In South America, most states have completely abolished the use of capital punishment, while some countries, such as Brazil, allow for capital punishment only in exceptional situations, such as treason committed during wartime. The United States, Guatemala, most of the Caribbean and the majority of democracies in Asia and Africa retain it. South Africa, which is probably the most developed African nation, and which has been a democracy since 1994, does not have the death penalty. This fact is currently quite controversial in that country, due to the high levels of violent crime, including murder and rape. In fact, the multiple policies could response the condition of the death penalty in every country, it is not the simple policies to abolish the death penalty or keep it. The researcher separates many kinds of policies about many countries. There are three primary policies here, the first one is abolish the death penalty and don't need any policy to instead it. The second one is that to abolish the death penalty, but sometimes, they will accord the crime and judge the crime is to death or not. The third is that keeping the death penalty, but restrict it strictly. It means if the criminals have the positive manner to make up their crimes; the government could give them another punishment such as stay in the jail.
(http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/part-ii-history-death-penalty)
This chart can show us the international abolition in the modern society. There are abolitionists in 95 countries for all crimes, abolitionist in 9 countries for ordinary crimes, abolitionist in 35 countries in practice and just 58 retentionist countries. The death penalty in the international society draws forth an issue that is abolishing the death penalty or not. Obviously most of countries would like to abolish it and there are many successful examples to show us.
Many argue that keeping the death penalty could warn somebody who wants to something is illegal. But increasing information tells them the death penalty couldn't play a part in effects. So others support that the death penalty is not a deterrent to crime.
In 2006, the South again had the highest murder rate in the country with 6. 8 murders per 100,000 people. Yet 80% of the executions in the country since the reinstatement of the death penalty in 1976 have occurred in the South. The Northeast, the region with the lowest murder rate, once again had the lowest execution rate at less than 1%. (Death Penalty Information Center.)
(http://nmrepeal.org/issues/deterrence)
This graph shows that murder rates continue to decline in states that do not carry out the death penalty. In 1990, the murder rate in each state is just about 9%, most of people do not care keeping or abolishing the death penalty because they don't have obvious difference. But with the development of society, human beings and statute, increasing people know that abolishing the death penalty is more useful than keeping it. According to this graph, from 1994 to 2000, the murder rate in non-death penalty states is obviously below than death penalty states. Most of police chiefs do not believe the death penalty significantly reduces the number of homicides. Rather, police chiefs ranked the death penalty as the last among effective ways of reducing violent crime.
Others argue that the death penalty spend too much money on sentence, medicament and litigation. Some states or countries need spend too much money for them per year. For example, even though death sentences around the nation are on the decline, California and Los Angeles County are bucking that trend, increasing their spending on death penalty trials to unprecedented levels. Los Angeles County is the national leader in the death penalty. The death penalty is the most important law in the criminal law of Los Angeles County. According to statistics, in 2009, LA County pent $14. 3 million on 13 death penalty prosecutions.
(http://www.enddeathpenaltyla.org/facts.html)
While LA County spends millions pursuing the death penalty, most murders go unsolved. The best way to ensure justice for victims and to deter violent crime is police the community and solves murder cases. Unfortunately, the graph shows that most murders in LA County go unsolved. From 2000 to 2008, the county's 8 year homicide clearance rate was 46%. (http://www.enddeathpenaltyla.org/facts.html)
Lots of evidence proves that the governments should not necessarily abolish the death penalty completely, just make it voluntary. When a criminal commits a terrible, violent offense, give that person the option of life in prison without parole or death. As people know that the life imprisonment is "cruel and unusual punishment", the criminals could have the authority to choose he'd like to spend the rest of his life. If he thinks that the crime is serious and nobody could excuse him, then there is nothing wrong in using the death penalty. On the contrary, an innocent man would choose life in jail and hope that he could prove his innocence to the courts. At the same time, if the courts still judge that he has the crime, he also has the authority to choose his life is end or stay in the jail. Most of people believe that this method is the only and the best one to solve this problem. Others studies think that if the governments put to use this method, they need find another thing to instead that the criminals just stay in the jails such as giving them some jobs to do, teaching them what is a legal citizen etc.
