Hijab in France
A decision released by France Government made many Muslims in France and in the world mad. The decision was about banning Hijab in public schools. Many people don't know what the Hijab is. Some people if they have a chance to see it in public, Hijab will be familiar to them. It is a scarf to cover the hair and chest. Only women wearing Hijab when they are front of men that they are not related to them. Hijab is rudiment of Islam for every Muslim woman. In addition, it is the priority when you are a Muslim which that had been proved in the Holy Quran. Every Muslim must do what the Holy Quran request from them, because this is what really Muslim will do.
The media has created a controversy between Muslims and France government. This issue caused a huge buzz in the world. People had to think who is right and who is wrong. The new government law made some Muslims go crazy. One of the reasons is religious symbols which are carried by students. Government thinks that Muslims have the right to demonstrate because of this decision. However, this decision will develop relations between citizens and prevent the racism. Another reason for the prevention is about enforcing girls to wear Hijab. The Government think is a brutality way to make them do what they don't want. These reasons produced a demonstration by Muslim. They made a lot of Muslims angry and demanding justice. They are wondering, is this convincing reason, where is the freedom of every citizen can have. This decision shows a lake of consideration for personal freedom. There is no a clear reason to ban Hijab. Hijab is a request from god which that mean no one dare to disobey hem, otherwise she will get sin. A lot of Islamic scholar law thinks that Hijab will prevent the attractiveness for women. When men see women wearing Hijab, they will find them normal. Therefore, the Hijab is a useful way to ovoid the danger that they get from men. Hijab now is a part of Islamic culture, therefore Islam has their own traditional cloths and Hijab is one of the most important clothing to wear in the community. Even though some people think women should not wear Hijab, the research in this paper shows that Muslim women should wear Hijab.
France wanted to live a secularism life. According to BBC Arabic News (2004), said by the president Jacques Chirac by saying "Secularism is one of the great successes of the Republic". Many of them were supporting this decision. On the other hand, Islamic law disagree with this decision. When any person who converting to any religion that he believe in, he must response to what his religion requested from him. According to Zaghloul (1998) "the hijab is an obligatory practice for Muslim men and women". In addition, if he didn't response to his religion, he will consider himself as vicious to his religion. Muslims are not blamed for what they doing of protests in the demonstrations. This New France law will make Muslims women in France to get sins to everyone who disobeys what his god requested from her. France is a country of freedom. According to Al Tahan, M. (2004) "France was the country of protect freedoms, Muslims see it now violation of freedom". The entire world never thought before that France will have such a decision. They never have a problem with Muslims before. People amazed in this new law. According to BBC Arabic News (2004) "We live in a country which is supposed to defend human rights, and to practice one's religion is a human right," said Betayeba Hayet one of the French protesters. The president mentioned that Secularism is the best way to live a life. According to Al Tahan, M. (2004) "what man and woman dress in the eyes of secular thoughts, is a personal freedom, it is nothing wrong to wear Hijab". The author wanted to say, there is no reason to ban Hijab at thought of secular. From this source, I can assume why some Muslims were mad at this decision. France used to be the country of freedom. However, this decision is way too far of freedom.
In this picture, women trying to express their feeling of how the Hijab is important to their religion and to their community as will. As you can see, women carrying banners and screaming loudly at the government so they can get their freedom to wearing Hijab. The president of France Jacques Chirac supported banning Hijab. According to Al zowid, A. (2003) "President Jacques Chirac said, Hijab is something aggressive in principle, even though wearing it a small minority". Muslims are really mad for what the president said. The president does not fully understand the Islamic practice. He called Hijab is aggressive. People had to think if the president was trying to call Muslims to give up Hijab or he don't like Islam at all. His speech weakened his popularity with Muslim and non-Muslim in France.
The Hijab is not the special culture clothing. Every culture has his special way to deal with. For instance, every culture has his own clothing to wear. As the pictures, there are Japanese women wearing Kimono, Indian women use a scarf to above there hade, and in Africa some women wear a Veil to cover their hair. Now, if we ask them why they wearing these kind of cloths. They must say this is a part of my culture for a long time. Therefore, Hijab is a part of culture as well. France did not respect that when they decide this decision. It is actually, Hijab is more than a culture. According to Reem, U. (2012) "Hijab slowly became my identity. I learned lessons through wearing hijab that I might not have learned otherwise. It gave me confidence, self-respect and taught me to stand up for my beliefs". She mentioned that Hijab gives her positives things in her life. In addition, Hijab gives herself respect and respect by her community. Hijab brings about an aura of respect to every women wearing it. Therefore, it is not easy to any Muslim women to abandon the Hijab or go out without it.
God create the woman to be a beautiful and soft which that in fact, she will attract men when they see her, and especially with her hair that will give her more beauty. Hijab will reduce the sexual desire of men when they see women. It will support men to have a self-control when they watch women. In addition, Hijab will ovoid women to be harassed. Hijab will reduce the proportion lust in men. When women wearing Hijab, men will be not attracted to them. Men will girls who wearing Hijab normal, In fact, they will respect her more. According to Mary, C. A. (2012) "men will look at woman with respect and she is noticed for her intellect , faith , and personality, not for her beauty". What the author trying to say, Hijab will not give women the beauty that attract men. On the contrary, the Hijab will give women the power to be respected when men around them and they don't dare to do something stupid.
Islam means, debt forgiveness and kindness by every pure Muslim. The priority of Islam is persuasion to who see Islam is the right way, not to forcing them to be a Muslim. One of the reasons for banning Hijab is, forcing girls to wear Hijab by their parents. According to PHD Al Saad (2004) "the government thinks that prevention based on to protect these girls from their parents desires". The author thinks that reason is not practical to stop their parent from raising their children. She is questioning how the parent will be stopped to raise their girls the way they think is better, even if they strict on them. Parents now what the best for their children. For instance, you daughter want to stop going to school and find a job. They will refuse to let her do that, because they want her to get a better education and a better job. Yes forcing girls is a mean way to deal with girls, though the parents know what is right for them. According to Winter, B. (2006) "In various countries, we have seen violence or even death inflicted on friends or those close to us because they refused to wear it". The author gives a convincing reason however, there is no perfect in this world. Everyone had a terrible mistakes in their life, these people who force in a violent way don't know how Islam deal with religion things. Muslims always want for their women to be successful in this life. Besides, there are women accept Hijab as their choice. According to BBC Arabic news "the girls in demonstrations carrying banners saying Hijab is my choice not compulsion" the author want to prove that Hijab their choice not they making them to wear it on the public. The author thinks that this reason is to laying the attention of the demonstrations and by calling it not reasonable.
Some of the scholar of Islamic law was agree with the France government decision. According to Ahmed Al-taiab known as sheikh Al-Azhar(2010) "if there any government want, for example France, to decide any laws that inconsistent with wearing Hijab to any Muslim woman, this is the government right". This speech angered other scholars for a while, because if Muslims did what the France government required they disobey what God requested from them and get sin. They never thought that an expired like sheikh Al-Azhar will agree with this kind of decision, they wandering if he get crazy or something. According to PHD Ali jomaah(2010) "someone appeared who has a psychological problem and said that he agree with the France government, but the USA president refused to accept" Ali wondering how dare sheikh al-azhar say such a thing. This is not speech by a person who study to be a scholar in Islamic law. The author mentioned that don't understand what he says. According to PHD Ali jomaah(2010) "Hijab of any Muslim women should not be removed because of any governor who wants it". The author wanted to explain that only God who request what his slaves to do, not not to listen to the France government. Disobedience of the creator will produce a very bad consequences. Muslims will never make god upset because of this scholar. Soon or later, sheikh al-azhar will loses his existence in Islamic community as a scholar of Islamic law.
In this picture, sheikh al-azhar on the right side of the picture shaking hands with representative of France government.
In conclusion, Hijab is the faith in God that he exists around every one who believes on hem. In addition, it is the most important thing in Islamic law. Leaving Hijab will cause losing the trust of God and losing the pride as a Muslim women. Therefore, this is what God order them to do and they must accept it. Otherwise, they will lose his satisfaction. Hijab can be useful to everyone who wears it in many ways; it can prevent the attractiveness that guys might see. Women can go to any place without men watching them, because the Hijab will cover the most watchable on them. Women should be able to be in public on peace, without be in giving a hard time in their community. Hijab is just pace of cloth that it cover there head and breast. Therefore, it is culture clothing. Maybe some of the Scholars of Islamic law agreed with the decision on banning hijab for a weak reason, on the other hand many of them were strongly disagreed with it, because there is no clear evidence to agree with this decision. In short, Muslim cane not sees any aggressive or threating to wear Hijab in public. On the contrary, Hijab gives every women who wearing it the respect and the confidence in her community.
