Studying abroad is the ultimate experience and is real. It is experiential and transformative learning, learning that integrates class time, travel, and field study to create a round-the-clock education experience. It is an addiction. Is studying abroad a good choice for every child? In recent years, studying abroad has become more and more popular in many countries. It is very popular in this modern society. This is a trend in the new social system, and many people want to pursue this situation. There are many reasons why studying abroad is a good choice.
First of all, in China, there are many parents following the crowd blindly. Most parents try to take their children go abroad. They think studying abroad is a good way to their children. Just think about that many people send their children to studying abroad in different country. These parents following the crowd blindly ask their children to study abroad; even they do not considered which country suitable for their children. Parents just believe that any other country. They can do this, but there have a part of parents want to be responsible for themselves children. They think studying abroad it is important to their children in the future, and take more care of the trend and situation in the society. Studying abroad becomes a trend in society. According to the web site iesabroad.com, studying abroad is a defining moment in many peoples' lives. In addition to, on the basis of surveys about "..study abroad programs from 1950 to 1999. The data from the more than 3,400 respondents (a 23 percent response rate) shows that studying abroad is usually ..continues to impact the participant's life for years after the experience." (Dwyer and Peters, 2004).
In other words, this is a popular phenomenon in studying abroad. It has had a huge influence on many families. If children go to study abroad, and then they have the experience of being overseas it will become one of the important things in their whole life. Even some family members, friends and other relatives can be very excited to studying abroad, because studying abroad it could increase children self-confidence and can have a good impact on their world view than other children. Based on iseabroad.org website, parents will be an especially interested in their children studying abroad. Parents are proud of their children have world view in their children abroad life.
"When asked about personal growth, 97 percent said studying abroad served as a catalyst for increased maturity, 96 percent reported increased self-confidence, 89 percent said that it enabled them to tolerate ambiguity, and 95 percent stated that it has had a lasting impact on their world view."(Laurie, 2010, p.768)
There have many programs and international center to provide the chance of studying abroad. There are many provided investigative shows that number of U.S. Students (U.S. citizens or permanent residents) enrolled for a degree who earned academic credit towards their degree through study abroad. From this figure to see the number of studying abroad is increasing in recent years. Education Abroad Center is major program for students. In total, in 2005-2006 year, there have 1152 students to go abroad. In 2006-2007 year, there have 1272 students to go abroad. In 2007-2008 year, there have 1322 students to go abroad. In 2008-2009 year, there have 1412 students to go abroad. It can be clearly seen the studying abroad number has been increasing. More and more students are able to studying abroad by education abroad center.
Figure 1: This is education abroad students at UC Davis, 2005-2009. (UC Davis University, 2011)
However, some people believe that this popular trend does not mean suitable that studying abroad is suitable for every individual student. Not every popular thing is good. Studying abroad sometimes can be a harmful side in society, because child is able to studying abroad, if they do not to studying abroad, they just waste money and time in their abroad life. They can do not treasure the good times in abroad. Parents should not follow the crowd blindly. They have the huge obligation of take care of their children in their life. Maybe studying abroad is the special and important thing in children's life, so parents and children should pay attention to studying abroad. The following graph it shows that have 59 percent of students studying abroad in Georgetown in 2003-2004 school year. In 2004-2005 school years, there have 59 percent of students studying abroad. In 2005-2006 school years, there have 55 percent of students studying abroad. In 2006-2007 school years, there have 53 percent of students studying abroad. In 2007-2008 school years, there have 57 percent of students studying abroad. It provided the results of its annual survey on study abroad participation.
Figure 2: This is the results of its annual survey on study abroad participation. (Juliana,2009)
For the time being, children have a chance to open their eyes, broaden their vision. They have an optimization growth environment and higher education conditions. When "read students a serious of statements about the value or purpose of a collage education and asked them to indicate how strongly they preferred that particular value or objective.. a college education prepares you for a career or profession." (No author, 2008). The following graph shows that prepares for a career or profession with 83 percent including that they strongly preferred. Be exposed to new ideas, knowledge, and intellectual challenges with 74 percent. Receive specific training and knowledge will need for a specific career with 75 percent. Acquire values, habits, and skills that prepare for many different opportunities with 70 percent. Student enabled to become more successful than other parents with 48 percent. As can be seen prepares for a career or profession is the important part in this graph. It provided that student preference on purposes of college education.
Figure 3: This graph about student preference on purposes of college education. (No author, 2008)
Students can receive higher education to finish their dream. And then they can look for a good job and have a higher quality of life than parents. From this, parents could are proud of their children. Most parents are able to their children have a higher level of life. So one of the common sides about that it is beneficial to invest in studying abroad. "..education-abroad experiences can make major contributions to students' knowledge of other countries, as well as to their cross-cultural communication skills.." (Zhang, 2011, p.183). Children could accept to higher education and different cultural in their life. It could be changed by their world views in their abroad life. It is full of enough colorful experience and view. Even have a huge influence on their whole life.
"It has been nearly ten years since I was a student in Vienna, but not a single day goes by where its impact is not felt in my life," says Jason Thornberg. My time there fundamentally changed how I view the world and has given me the ability to view the world, and its issues, from several perspectives. (Mary and Peters, 2004)
If children stay in completely strange environment, after a period of exercise, they can become mature and steady. They learned to how to use several perspectives to solve different problems in daily life. Children learn to with different point of view to develop themselves.
Third, Studying abroad can improve social skills and strengthens independent ability. Parents cannot help children to do everything. So children are forced to do everything rely on themselves. By studying abroad, children could inform cultural learning systems internationally. It is useful for children personal development in the development of their future. They could accept to new things increase experiences quickly. They learned many worldviews in different countries informed the ability to view the world. For long time, they can independent to do everything. At the same time, children can improve their second language. It makes them know how to deal with same problem of social life. They can learn foreign language better and quickly in less time. The following sentence show that experience can effect on decision. Children could become independent better than before studying abroad. "Findings also show that study abroad leads to long-lasting friendships with other students and still impacts current relationships.., and 73percent said the experience continues to influence the decisions they make in their family life." (Laurie, 2010, p.777). Independent and experience is important part to the process of grow up. This is an effective way for their growing. However, some people say other children are too young, and they do not have social skills to study abroad. Therefore, they do not have the ability to live independently. They cannot deal with the problem from study and live correctly. So they after long period of training to consider whether should study abroad. Experts thinks that only the information of the correct values and ability to judge, and then to go abroad. This independent is essential. And then to consider how prepared for studying abroad. For example, how children acquire second language.
Because of different languages in different countries, children need to spend long time to learn second language. They need to have enough time to study language and more knowledge about abroad. "For many people, the experience of residing in a country other than their own results in their learning the language of that country." (Freed, 1995, p.4). When some children want to make their dream to come true they go abroad, and their primary task will be to learn second language. Language is the huge power in the world. Only people have the same language that they can communicate with other people in different country. According to people choose, they need to learn their country language, because if people could not speak the same language in country, they cannot communicate with other people in daily life. If they can handle the language, they can get better along with other people. Therefore, communication is very important in daily life. It makes people receive higher level in the future life.
Fourth, long distance makes children realize the value of family and friends. It is better to learn more grateful around people. After a long time away from hometown, children can understand the family of warmth. And understand the diligent parents. Once children left home go far from another country, they would not stand up to lonely. Family tie and friendship will be changed when they studying abroad. "A reduction in the number of children of children born to a couple can increase the representation of their children in the next generation if this enables the couple to invest sufficiently more in education, training, and.." (Becker, 1991, p.137). Children have no enough informed correct life values. They cannot prepare for studying abroad in this age stage. They would miss their parents and friends and other family members. However they cannot come back home in time with their wish. It can be assumed that going back your country after being abroad, for a certain period it could be hard for some to be able to readjust. According to Freed (1995) main lists that what is reverse cultural shock. If some people leaved beloved home country, they have to come back, because they are going to study abroad they only to think about the time they are going to spend away. In addition to, by a president from International Education of Students (IES) organization said for many years, conventional wisdom in the study abroad field has been that "most is better" ---- the longer students study abroad, the more significant the academic and cultural development and personal growth benefits. Therefore, cultural shocks it will be take an essential effect on children's future life.
At the beginning, culture shock will not help you to feel integrated: you will need an 'adjustment period'. You should create new habits, discover the place you are going to live, meet people for example. I cannot hide to you that it will be hard sometimes. (Freed, 1995, p. 39)
It is hard for children to adapt to new environment in another country, because they need to accept to a different cultural and tradition. When people were a child, they already adapt to the original environment. They have deep-rooted cultural. If they stay in a new environment, they need to from zero to adapt. But they become a multi-cultural people. "Culture shock is the process of initial adjustment to an unfamiliar environment. This psychological construct of culture shock has been used to describe the adjustment process in its emotional, psychological, behavioral, cognitive, and psychological impact on individuals." (Pedersen, 1995, p.1). The foundation of all things is inseparable from the financial support. As the saying goes, Economic infrastructure determine superstructure.
Last but not least, some parents believe that they would like to invest many resources in their children. They want to their children have a good development in the future, and children have chance to learn more knowledge from foreign cultural. To feel the foreign life it make their own life is more complete. But on the contrary, some people regard that as it is unnecessary to spend too much economic investment in studying abroad, because have some families cannot afford expensive costs for their children to study abroad.
Moreover most countries do not allow foreign student to work, so you need to have money before you arrive in the country or have someone from home supporting you. The question you have to ask yourself is: can I afford to study abroad? (Maria, 2010)
The following graph wants to show that the basic cost of college is tuition. There are also many four-year colleges and universities that are relatively inexpensive. 52.2% of students to choose the tuition between $4,000 and $7,999. 20.2% of students to choose the tuition between $8,000 and $15,999. 15.7% of students to choose the tuition under $4,000. 11.9% of students to choose the tuition $16,000 or more. It can be clearly seen most student to choose between $4,000 and $7,999. This is available price about tuition in college. So if parents have not enough money to improve their children expensive college tuition, children cannot have a chance of studying abroad.
Figure 4: This graph about the amount of tuition and fees charged. (No author, 1999)
Some parents believe that it depends on the actual condition individual's choice. If children want to study abroad, parents try to meet the requirements of their children to accept to better environment. However, some parents argue that they cannot afford expensive to support their children studying abroad. They believe that they have unnecessary to afford this tuition, because if children are able to study, everywhere is good environment. Domestic environment is comfortable and better than foreign environment.
Above all, studying abroad is a beneficial choice for children. According to the resources, whether studying abroad is a good choice for children or not, it is still open to discussion. It can depend on personal status: experience, social skills, grateful, enriches life, and economic. These are beneficial factors about studying abroad. People should take more notice of studying abroad. Parents should keep the balance of studying abroad for their children.
