Extended Argument "Violent Video Games"
Imagine that a husband and his wife are walking home after a night out on the town when all of a sudden a dark figure approaches the couple, pulls out a fully loaded revolver, and with the simple twitch of his finger a bullet is engraved into the head of the man; leaving the woman in a paralyzing fear and open to a world of pain and agony, or even worse, sexual abuse and murder. Violence in media such as violent video games, and TVs, is blamed for such this case. It is the constant picture of violence that today's "entertainment" methods into the minds of its viewers that can occasionally have an impact on their mentality, and even their actions. As a result, violent video games had an increased impact on society, and have received more and more attention from the media. Video games have many effects on children. Many people have speculated that video games have a direct influence on how violent a person becomes. The negative repercussions of excessive game play seem to outweigh the positive. Do violent video games lead to a real violence? Do violent video games cause behavior problems? In this essay, I will analyze the arguments made about violent video games.
Some people believe that there are some benefits of video games. Studies by leading researchers have shown that video games have many benefits: Games help children who are ill or have injuries. Absorption in a game distracts the mind from pain and discomfort. Many hospitals are encouraging children and others undergoing painful treatments to play games, Griffiths a professor at Nottingham University wrote in a medical journal that playing games could help children with attention deficit disorders. Research indicates that the children could gain social skills; many medical departments are using computer games as a form of physiotherapy. Games help people who are recovery from physical injuries gain motor skills and coordination too, Video games are known to improve hand-eye co-ordination and help players gain many skills, Games create team players and hone social skills too, Games are known to enhance creativity and inculcate a taste for graphics, design and technology, many games improve language and math skills as players have to move at a great speed along with the heroes of the game. "Videogames have also been used to improve children's health care. Several games have been developed specifically for children with chronic medical conditions. One of the best-studied is an educational game called 'Packy and Marlon'. 25 This game was designed to improve self-care skills and medical Relationships between playing violent electronic games and negative behaviors and emotions may never be proven to be causal by the strictest standard of "beyond a reasonable doubt," (Griffiths, 2002. p. 47). According to Mark Griffiths "Videogames can be used when examining individual characteristics such as self-esteem, self-concept, goal-setting and individual differences" (Griffiths, 2002. p. 47). Video and computer games help children gain self-confidence and many games are based on history, city building, and governance and so on. Such games indirectly teach children about aspects of life on earth. And games teach players problem solving, motivation, and cognitive skills. Most games inspire players to strive and reach more difficult levels presenting challenges at each stage.
"Even though violent video games are associated with negative behavior, they are believed to be beneficial teaching tools for purposes of motivation as well as learning process "(Lachlan, Smith & Tamborini, 2005). Video games are believed to be hard, an aspect that calls for extra thinking in order to generate practical solutions. Most video games tend to challenge children right to the edge of their capacities. In an attempt to score more points, children are forced to think harder thereby enhancing their psychological capacity. Lachlan, Smith and Tamborini (2005) argue that games have the potential to reduce stress among children. They distract the minds of children from discomforts and pain that characterize normal life. Another positive aspect associated with games as pointed out by proponents is that they can be beneficial to children suffering from attention disorders. "Children try as much as possible to move with the speed of the heroes in a game, and as a result the speed with which their minds come up with practical solutions is enhanced "(Anderson, Gentile & Buckley, 2007). Games also have the capacity to boost the confidence of a child. This is due to the fact that most of them are divided into various levels. Every player in a game puts all of his or her effort in an attempt to reach and go beyond more difficult levels than other players. "Therefore, when a child successfully completes most of these levels his or her morale is boosted "(Anderson, Gentile & Buckley, 2007).
Figure 1: This picture explains how video games increase problem solving and creativity.
According to Paul Tassi "In many fields from medicine to the military, video games are being used as training tools to help develop specific skills and "Gamification" of many jobs increases productivity, creativity and motivation". A study found that kids who played video games scored 23% higher in creative tests involving tasks such as drawing pictures and writing stories.
Although video games have many disagreements, and my side of the argument is against violent video games. Violent video games become more popular and attractive for most children, causing aggressive behavior among children. Many scientist and psychologists believed that violent video games lead to aggressive behavior, "modern day psychologists believe that video games, which contain a large percentage of violent scenes, tend to disrupt the normal psychological development of children leading to violent behavior" (Anderson & Bushman, 2001). Even though it is widely believed that violent video games have a higher propensity to causing violent behavior among young people, the main question remains whether young persons who spend most of their time watching these games become more violent as compared to those who do not watch the games. The issue regarding violent video games and development of violent behavior among children has resulted in a significant divide among parents and teachers in addition to psychologists. Based on the fact that children tend to imitate what they see other people doing their tendency to take on violent behavior from violent video games is significantly high. "Over 130 studies have been conducted on over 130,000 participants around the world" (Anderson et al., 2010). These studies show that violent video games increase aggressive thoughts, angry feelings, physiological arousal (e.g., heart rate, blood pressure), and aggressive behavior. Violent games also decrease helping behavior and feelings of empathy for others.
Overall the facts there are some people believe that violent video games cannot lead to violent behavior "Even though a large proportion of society argues that violent video games cannot lead to violent behavior among children, the fact that these games tremendously disrupt the normal psychological development of children cannot be refuted" (Anderson, Gentile & Buckley, 2007). Many scientists believed that children imitate everything they play or see in violent video games, which cause violent behavior, and lead to a series problem in the world. Many studies have approved that children imitate the violence they see, and show more aggressive behavior with greater exposure to violence. Some children accept violence as a way to handle problems.
Although some games have educational content, many of the most popular games, such as GTA, and Call of Duty, emphasize negative themes, and violent visuals, and promote: "the killing of people or animals, the use and abuse of drugs and alcohol, criminal behavior, disrespect for authority and the law, sexual exploitation and violence toward women, racial, sexual, and gender stereotypes, and foul language, obscenities, and obscene gestures" (aacap, 2011).
Figure 3: This graph shows the effectives of playing violent video games.
Children and young adults can become very involved and even obsessed with video games. Spending large amounts of time playing these games can lead to: "poor social skills, time away from family time, school-work, and other hobbies, lower grades and reading less, exercising less, and becoming overweight, and aggressive thoughts and behaviors" (aacap, 2011).
Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado witnesses a violent bloody shooting in April 20, 1999 by two teenagers, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold. The deadly assault they carried out killed 13 and wounded 23 people before killing themselves. (Salt Lake City Police Department). Although we don't know the motives why they did what they did, but investigators found that they both enjoy playing violent video games. Their favorite video game was called "Doom", which is bloody, and shoots them up type game. There is a study done by the US Secret Service found that "one-eighth (12%) of 41 individuals involved in high school shootings attacks showed an interest in violent video games". (Angeline Duran, 2008).
"Research, as denoted by Sadock, Kaplan and Sadock " (2007), has also revealed that cases of accidents committed by young persons as a result of overexposure to violent video games have been on the rise. "For instance, a case was reported in Egypt whereby a boy who had allegedly stabbed his brother with a knife was asked why he did it. Innocently, the child replied that he had seen the same action in the "house of the dead", a video game that is presumed to contain numerous violent scenes "(Sadock, Kaplan & Sadock, 2007). "It has also been revealed that as compared to girls, the tendency of boys to develop violent behavior as a result of violent video games is higher" (Cichirillo & Chorry-Assad 2005). "Psychologists argue that boys whose capacity in education is lower become more violent as compared to those whose ability in education is excellent "(Anderson, Gentile & Buckley, 2007).
Based on the fact that psychological development is usually at its peak during the early stages of life, exposing children to high levels of violence either in TV shows or violent video games is detrimental (Beaver, 2011). A violent scene sets the mind of a child such that even though the scene may contain high levels of violence, the scene appears alright to him or her. Children continually absorb and internalize what they see. As a result the violent character of a child that may have been lying dormant may be become activated.
Lachlan, Smith and Tamborini (2005) point out that despite the fact that there is considerable evidence supporting the view that violent video games result to distorted perception of violence among children thereby leading to hostility, attempts to ensure that children are not allowed to play violent video games have time and again been successfully challenged in court. Most of the parents continue encouraging their children to take part in these games oblivious of the dangers they are exposing them to.
It can therefore be concluded that even though a large group of people believe that video games cannot disrupt the psychological development of a young person, it has been revealed that children tend to imitate and internalize almost everything they are exposed to. Many facts showed that violent video games cause behavior problems and can lead to a real violence, such as, Columbine High School, and that case reported in Egypt. However, there are many video games have educational content, and help to increase problem solving and creativity, but most of them have negative themes, and violent visuals, and promote, such as, "the use and abuse of drugs and alcohol, and criminal behavior". In addition, there are some solutions to avoid children from video games, checking the entertainment software ratings board to learn about the game, set a limit time of playing for children, and play the game before you buy it to see if it's content violent.
