Should Saudi students study abroad?
At this time, the world has become the options for many people to choose the right place to complete what was left of their education. But what confused by the people is to study in their country, or one of the world countries. In the past, people wanting to study abroad are very small. The issue of scholarship and study abroad where are different opinions, which make many of their opinion, sometimes, relying on scientific data and research are a rare few, and sometimes the other participants their assessment of their vision of personal and cultural self and experience are the dominant majority. However, possible that the lack of adequate technology to offer to guide people to it. In another case, the possible fear of alienation and self-reliance was the hard stuff. I am the one who was their decision to study abroad. Also, many students wish as I'm in a study abroad and get a scholarship. When he got a scholarship from the Government of my country I began to think in the best cities in America, which has a learning environment that helps me to study without any problems. Unfortunately, I had problems such as accumulation of some states students Saudis. This was one of the conditions that the government chose the state does not have many in which a number of Saudi students. According to U.S. Border Control said " More than 26,700 Saudi students entered U.S. in 2010".this is large number of Saudi students only in 2010.i Completed a research on the cities have few of Saudi students. Then I found flagstaff. I Read about flagstaff found it really small town and are valid for the study. This debate has become a lot talking about in Saudi Arabia. Also, it became the goal of many students in Saudi Arabia to travel abroad for many reasons. So in the topic has become very important. This is necessary to clarify the pros and cons to this thread. This controversy will explain what is considered the opposite side which said studying in Saudi Arabia will be better because studying in their own country and will be among the customs and traditions, and there are some difficult challenges facing the student somewhat like food and nostalgia for the homeland. Even though some people didn't think to consider that studying abroad was not so much helpful, the research in this paper shows that studying abroad offers a lot of benefits. For example, studying abroad will make discover new things and development of linguistics skills in humans, helps to develop their careers, Study abroad offers to recognize new communities and cultures has never discovered, study abroad have a positive impact on the country and study abroad is increasing personal growth.
The opposite side in this debate has some of the reasons that it considers negative for Saudi students to decide to study abroad. I expect to see some who are standing on the other side from one of the students and graduates of one of Saudi universities, a director of one of Saudi universities or individual singled out from the family. According to The first cause of the reasons for this is that the study in the same country of the student to help him to be in the environment he lived and raised there, and the student will find support from those around him. Also, the student will be between his community will not be has to learn new cultures or to learn new habits to be able to live with people. The student in Saudi Arabia is available to him every reason to find the best atmosphere in the study. This is something really important that we care about the students. On the contrary, this will increase the satisfaction of the student to study and acquire the high rates. Customs and traditions of other countries may sometimes do not fit with the beliefs of the student in Saudi Arabia. A student can gain a lot in studying because they are in a familiar culture and favorable environment (Farrell and Suvedi, 2003).
Second, the challenges are facing students in countries abroad. According to Farrell and Suvedi there are also fewer challenges (2003). The families of the students are more focused on this point, to make sure that their children live happily without them to change something. Food is one of these challenges, which suffered a lot of Saudi students. Where they are do not find what it longer to eat their own country. Most of times more Saudi students are look for food that contains a portion of rice, because rice is one of the main meals of the Saudis. Sometimes find rice in a restaurant but does not have Arab those recipes that most of the dishes contained in Saudi Arabia. Also, halal food is one of the problems faced by the food which students Saudis. Because it is a condition of the Islamic religion as it prevent them food to eat non-halal. Third, the longing to come home is not exactly a problem for Saudi students but for students who are studying abroad. Where the different places on the Saudi student sometimes makes it depressed. Also, according to Bragah Studying within one's home country also offers the advantage of learning in a language one is well used to (2012). We cannot be underestimated for this reason that I'm now one of the students who study abroad and really longing to national hurts my heart this is my feeling.
Now it is time for me to give the evidences that prove that the Saudi student should be taught abroad. Most of my classmates will support me in my point of view are struggling and working hard to get the best option to gain experience in new and better places. First, the discovery of a group of new science that is useful in our lives and to acquire new language skills. According to Niche Bragahi In the video, Niche Bragahi recommends study abroad because it will make you discover new things and development of linguistics skills in humans (2012). Also, Niche Bragahi has given some examples of what she faced in France. In addition, to become from one of those who are interested in theories about teaching. America is more options available for the Saudis to study them. America is the most prominent note of the developed countries of most respects. Is the chance we take a value for the flag of that country with a big reputation in many fields. Also, this will help to transfer those experiences to Saudi Arabia. As an example, America has the best in the world is Harvard University. It is the best options for Saudi students to learn.
Second, studying abroad is the best way to develop careers. Also, the goal of the Saudi student or any other international students is to obtain a certificate rather better than they have available in their country. According to Nicole Verat she says that the study abroad had helped find a professional career for the students (2012). Also, Nicole Verat gave an example of what she said was one of those who had previously studied abroad; they now have a strong field in the business world and education. This really has to do with the benefits of study abroad. This also is logical words or very academic. Also, currently there is a problem in Saudi Arabia and provides a large number of unemployment. Many of the men and women who hold bachelors or master's degree could not get a job. That's all because of the strict conditions of companies that led to this problem. So study abroad will be the cause of this problem. In addition, some foreign countries provide specialties not available in Saudi universities. As an example, in Utica University there is new major that Saudi Arabia doesn't have it. Utica city is one of New York State. This major called information security. I hope that we have available for this specialty in Saudi Arabia, but study abroad is the only way to find this major.
Third, study abroad was for Saudi student's new things such as mixing and recognized communities and new cultures. The good thing of it is that fills part of your mind the magnitude of the tribes of the earth and the types of people. According to Australia Sustainability and Environmental Action program (2012), they say that studying abroad earn a new look to the world. Study abroad make a person acquires new topics and cultures has never discovered. In addition, knowing a lot about what is happening in the world in trade, environment, education and many things in this society. In addition, to identify new communities has become a special thing, not because he is the reason to acquire information, guidance, cultures and even new religions. Unfortunately, a lot of people do not care about this kind of information because they expect it will not benefit them in their future careers. The contrary, this will increase the experience and the discovery of a new world. This helps our generations to benefit from this new Saudi various communities.
Fourth, according to Caroline Battista, University of South Carolina Students participating in the study abroad experience have a positive impact on the country (2009). These days, it is important for the future of Saudi Arabia to have citizens who have international experience. There is the importance he has for the transfer of science and Western technology and Eastern technology to our country and we urgently need to do so. I think where it cannot transfer this knowledge and science only two ways the first import, purchase and use of experts foreign conduct and implementation of a principle in our country has a significant negative impact, or the production of that knowledge production in our country, a principle the most self-acceptance at the grassroots level but needs superior support and requires plans and strong potential and great sacrifices. This is all to benefit the expertise of national scientific migrating abroad by inviting them to perform their duty towards their nation to transfer what they have learned the knowledge and science and specialize in and have succeeded where achievements, through use them in our university in graduate studies and supervision of Masters and Doctorate, and follow the conference regular and supervision of the specialized scientific programs in their respective areas of specialization and creativity.
Finally, studying abroad is a reason for personal growth. Studying abroad makes students able to keep up with the movement of universal progress or disability, it even made ??the nations to the same plans and strategies raced by others to the transfer of knowledge and science from each source distinguished them and then trying to get into its borders. Since that study abroad makes the student's mind open and be more willing to accept ideas and courage in the dialogue and accept the opposition and the corresponding exchange ideas and opinions of others. Also, the alienation that could affect the person becomes more dependent on himself and his ideas in a more independent and able to dialogue with different mentalities.
Anti vision, says in parallel with attempts to advance scholarship and to take advantage of them appeared much criticism for all scholarship programs from another point of view and see what the counter to see him invited to study abroad. Owners said that vision that the scholarship is a new kind of types of gaps that can Westernization to enter them as entering into the depth of the community and through which the West, the change in our system of life and cultural by changing the cultures of scholarship who may return positions and prestigious centers in the community and become the place of role models for the children home and then exposed to the values ??and principles of the shake-up of those who often may have become intellectually and Western culture and values ??of the Islamic faith may have hit many of the weaknesses, But warned the owners of that vision to form political loyalties of some scholarships with the West makes them a hand of a politician in the western direction towards the desires of our society in general.
In conclusion, the world in changing at a very rapid rate and cultures are getting intermingled. It is, therefore, important for leaders, both present and future, to appreciate cultures and civilizations outside their own (Verat-Pont, 2012). Nothing offers a better opportunity to acquire such credentials than studying in a different culture. Many people see studying abroad as more expensive and demanding that in one's own country. However, it is rather cheap in some countries (Verat-Pont, 2012). Study abroad was a lot of benefits that really is one of the things that will cause in the future of the student. Discover new things and acquire new language skills. In addition, study abroad as a factor in the development of the profession. Also, increases the general information of the student because they know the communities and new cultures. Also, increase the personal qualities. Therefore, such an opportunity offers them a chance to improve their English due to being taught by a native speaker. Studying at home on the other hand exposes them to fewer challenges (Davey, 2005), and they remain more or less the same individuals, socially and culturally. The opponents of my side made some interesting claims about why studying in Saudi Arabia is better than studying abroad. They said. However, the research in my paper that studying in their country offers the same environment that Saudi students gown up. I advise all students coming to study abroad that feel the fully responsible for the representation of Islam in the best picture. Also, responsible for representation of our country the great Kingdom of Saudi Arabia that we are the best in terms of study, excellence and personal dealings, to prove to the whole world that the Saudi student is an opportunity and a distinguished addition to the University where he taught and not just people who Watteau for a certificate.
