"Global Warming"
Many people tend to think that Global Warming is not important to be worthy of attention. Others think that it is a scientific scam. Global Warming is an important issue because it affects the community in general. In fact, it affects every country and every person in the whole world. The results of Global Warming can affect the world fresh water supply because it is running dry. (Climate change institute) In addition, it can affect the world crops supply because drought rate is increasing. Furthermore, see level is increasing and many countries are loosing their coasts like the Maldives. Individuals can personally participates on preventing Global Warming by choosing clean power, putting limits on factory pollution, invest in green energy, built better communities and better transportation, and by driving smarter cars. Consequences might happen if individuals does not get involved and take action. According to former vice president Al-gore, New York will be under water fifty years from now. Moreover, London, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego, Santa Monica, and many more cities will be under water. Although some readers may object that many previous scientists said that Global Warming is a myth, recent studies shed new light on the evidence of Global Warming, which previous studies had not addressed. Global Warming is happening because of the human negligence on pollution and people must prevent Global Warming by putting carbon dioxide policies, built better community, and use clean energy.
Many people do not understand how Global Warming happens. According to IPCC, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, when factories burn fusil fuel, they produce more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere which scientists refer to as "green house gases." (EPA) when the atmosphere has a lot of carbon dioxide, it makes the stratosphere layer thick. When the stratosphere layer becomes thick, it observes the sun radiation to the earth atmosphere. The normal cycle of the sun radiation is that when the sun radiation inters the earth atmosphere, it hits the ground and flow back to space. When the stratosphere layer is thick, sun radiation inters the earth atmosphere and hit the ground and does not flow back to space because it is trapped by the thick layer which leads to increase in temperature. Fossil fuel burning is not the only reason Global Warming is happening. Car pollution, deforestation, over use of electricity, and water abuse also cause Global Warming.
Global Warming has just recently occurred and it is a new issue to mankind. Global Warming started since the industrial revolution began in the 1800s. Britain was the first country to go in to the coal mining business. Coal burning was the latest affective energy so Britain burned a lot of coal. Scientists claim it started in the 1800 because when research has been done, they discovered that the carbon dioxide concentration level before 1800 was lower than the level after 1800. As it shown on figure 1, carbon dioxide began to increase in 1800 and it expanded since then. According to the EPA, (Environmental Protection Agency), in 2005, global atmospheric concentrations of CO2 were 35% higher than they were before the Industrial Revolution. Scientist have many ways to figure out the temperature of the earth. Tree cores, sediments, and ice cores are the most common ways to find the earth temperature. Michael Mann, Raymond Bradley are the two famous scientists that managed to find the earth temperature 1000 years ago till today. They did it by drilling tree cores. They put their information on a graph and they concluded that the earth temperature went on an expansion from 1890 till now. They called the graph "The Hokey Stick" because it looks like a hokey sticks. Figure 2 briefly shows the temperature since 1000 to 2000 and it looks like the temperature expanded on 1900 due to an increase of fusil fuel burning and an increase in carbon dioxide.
What makes the topic "Global Warming" controversial is that many people are uncertain about the issue. According to George, Princeton University press, "Some experts argue that, until the uncertainties in the scientific results are reduced, we should not implement any policies for fear that those policies will put our economy at risk" (George). Preventing Global Warming requires a lot of sacrifices and there must be a complete change in the way of living. For example, for an individual to participate in preventing Global Warming there should be a change in transportation. Individuals must change their cars to an electric car to reduce carbon dioxide emission. There should be a clean energy power like solar systems. Also, changing and replacing all light bulbs in a house into more efficient light bulbs. Many people are not willing to do the previous requirements because most of the people are not capable of doing so. In addition, applying these requirements hurts the economy and people would want to follow their desires on their interest. There must be a whole different economy. Despite the fact that applying these requirements will hurt the economy in the short-run, there will be greater consequences in the future if no person apply them.
As a result of human negligence on polluting the earth, Global Warming could hurt our community we live in. Global Warming causes extreme weather, rising oceans, food and water resources shortage, human health, war and conflicts. Recently, extreme weather is happening almost every where. Hurricane Katrina was one of the extremist weather catastrophes. The hurricane came to New Orleans, Louisiana and took many human lives with it. Almost 80% of Louisiana was flooded and the overall damages were 81 millions. (Wikipedia.) Global Warming could effect the oceans level by increasing dramatically. As a result of increasing ocean level, many cities will be under water and many human souls will disappear. Global Warming effects the North Pole and South Pole ice glaciers and many polar bears are drown dead because there is no place to rest on a hard stable ground. An increase in temperature will harm the human health because in 2003 there was a severe heat wave that hit Europe and lots of people died. Global Warming could cause wars and conflicts in the future because the water supply is drying and many countries will get involved in wars just to have fresh water supply to survive Global Warming could cause the ecosystem severe damages. According to The UN Environment Program, by 2075 few locally endemic species will survive. Twenty five percent of the Earth's mammals and 12% of bird species will be extinct within the next 30 years (Alternative energy).
There is a lot of evidence that Global Warming is happening and scientist can predict what the consequences are in the future. As vice president Al-gore writes in his book, "In 2000, scientist dug ice cores from Antarctica to see the differences in the trapped bubbles temperature. The scientist can measure how much CO2 in the bubbles. The data collected was that the bubbles temperature was lower than nowadays."(Al Gore) in addition, IPCC, which is one of the greatest and most trusted climate agencies in the world, did a report on February 2007 on the decreasing level of snow. It is stated in report that snow has decreased by 7 percent in the North Pole. Furthermore, a second report was published by the IPCC and it is quoted "The world's average surface temperature has increased by around 0.74 C over the past 100 years (1906 - 2005). A warming of about 0.2 C is projected for each of the next two decades." There are lots of arguments by the skeptics of Global Warming but they are week against recent studies arguments. What makes the skeptics arguments week is that they don't have sufficient evidence to support their claim. They believe that carbon dioxide emissions do not cause Global Warming. In fact, it is good for the earth. They claim that reducing carbon dioxide will heart the earth. One of the evidence they have is that lowering carbon dioxide will result in low food production like vegetable. Plants grow on high level of carbon dioxide and without high level of carbon dioxide; there will be small production in plant and slow blooming. More carbon dioxide is needed to sustain the plant production.
Another week argument of the skeptic view on Global Warming is that they claim that climate has been changed before and it is part of the earth cycle. For example, one of the skeptics' scientists, Richard Lindzen, said "Climate is always changing. Ice ages have occurred in a hundred thousand year cycle for the last 700 thousand years, and there have been previous periods that appear to have been warmer than the present despite CO2 levels being lower than they are now." (Lindzen) most scientists refer to lindzen argument as a week argument because even though planet earth has had a change in global climate, it is not happening right now. Natural change in the earth temperature results from a brighter sun that can make the earth temperature high. In addition, volcano erupts provide more particles into the atmosphere which increases temperature. But it was caused by a natural forcing due to an increase in greenhouse gasses. Green house gasses are now increasing dramatically and that will cause another change in the world cycle.
Although many scientists agree with the topic "Global Warming" some believe that it is a scam. According to Joseph Bast, a well known author and the president and CEO of the heart land institution, many reasons that Global Warming is a scam. Firstly, most scientists do not believe that humans are the one who are causing global climate. 17000 scientists signed a document in Oregon science institution that the evidence was not accurate. Secondly, the computer models have no capacity to predict the future. Thirdly, the most important institute (IPCC) did not prove any evidence of Global Warming. Thirdly, around 1200 AD, the earth temperature was warmer than now. So Global Warming will not happen because of human negligence activities. Bast also mentions that putting tax on green house gases it very expensive and the government will not afford this much of money.
From a skeptical perspective, there are many counter arguments towards Global Warming. One of the common arguments skeptics claim is that computer models are not reliable as scientist think. Although Global Warming skeptics believe that computer modeling is the best way to predict the future, they insist that computer models don't have the capacity to model all processes. In addition, the measurements of the modeling are not accurate. For example, computer models predict that the lower level of the atmosphere is wormer than the higher surface of the atmosphere. Recently, they discovered that the models were wrong and the higher level of atmosphere is warmer than the lower level (BBC news). Also, skeptics claim that carbon dioxide measurement rise after an increase in temperature not before. For example, studies show that when scientist did an experiment on ice cores they saw patterns of temperature and carbon dioxide trapped in the bubbles that has increased a thousand intervals. However, they claim that carbon dioxide can only be measured after an increase in temperature not before.
The group which apposes the idea that global warming stems from human causes has a week argument compared to the pros of Global Warming. Firstly, they claim that computer modelings are unreliable. Although I agree with them up to a point, I cannot accept their overall conclusion that computer modeling is a complete junk that is not reliable. Computer modeling will never be perfect and cannot predict the future exactly and specifically. Yet, scientist used computer modeling over the last twenty years and the prediction of the modeling was very accurate and reliable. Secondly, opposing group of Global Warming argue that carbon dioxide can't be measured before the temperatures measurement. This argument is irrelevant to the subject. Although it may show measurements after the temperature, it shows only few years of measurements. The additional carbon dioxide is c of human activities. According to Fred Singer, news person, "the situation today is dramatically different. The extra CO2 in the atmosphere (35% increase over pre-industrial levels) is from human emissions. Levels are higher than have been seen in 650,000 years of ice-core records, and are possibly higher than any time since three million years ago."
The reason for the government to put tax on environmental issues is because renewable energy production cost is too high. The need for renewable energy production is being concern because of the wars going on in Iraq and the increasing oil prices. Fortunately, President Bush signed the Energy Policy Act of 2005 but it took almost four years for the congress to pass. It included tax on solar energy and other renewable energy. Recently, many companies invest in renewable technologies to help reduce carbon dioxide emissions (Hick). Our community needs policies and laws on carbon dioxide emission in order to prevent Global Warming. IPCC is the agency that puts polices on factories that produce a lot of carbon dioxide like burning fossil fuel. The IPCC had sent a bill to the congress for a bill on carbon dioxide emissions. They say that the government should apply these policies to reduce carbon dioxide (New York Times).
When it comes to the topic of "Global Warming", one controversial issue has been that whether Global Warming is part of the earth cycle or not. On the one hand, Global Warming pros argue that Global Warming is happening due to human pollution from fusil fuel burning and unclean energy. When fusil fuel is burned, they become carbon dioxide because they are contained mostly carbon and it is increasingly one part per million.. They react with oxygen and produce carbon dioxide. Since the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide has been increasing dramatically. On the other hand, opposing group of Global Warming contends that Global Warming is part of the earth cycle. They say that in the past millions years, Global Warming has happened a couples of times and this one is just part of the earth cycle. Others even maintain that Global Warming is a complete political scam. They begin by saying that computer modeling doesn't have the capacity to predict the future. So too, 17000 scientist signed a document in Oregon that confirms that there were no evidence of Global Warming. My own view is that Global Warming is happening and that if there were no policies and laws on carbon dioxide emissions, we will face severe consequences in the future and many lives will be gone because of our negligence.
