Argument Essay: The benefits or disadvantages of studying abroad and its increasing popularity in China 
Studying overseas is becoming more and more popular in China; according to Waghann, a CCTV reporter, "for the past decade, Chinese students pursuing a higher education overseas have been increasing at about 20% each year." (2013) Nowadays when people pay attention to the billboard on the tall buildings when walking along the road in China, we can easily find advertisements such as "Hire a manager. (Recommend: people who study overseas)". People now gradually have conscious that education in foreign countries, especially colleges and universities, are better than those in our homeland; therefore, most parents in China are seeking ways to send their kids overseas for study. However, not everyone is suitable for studying abroad; however, people with following three characteristics might be more adaptable to study abroad, which are bravery to face new obstacles, will to interact with foreigners and mind to have a clear plan for their career and future. 
Getting ready for the obstacles like being alone and getting along with friends and roommates is the priority when studying abroad. "You could feel excluded in the country where you are and not have the social network yet that can give you support and strength." (Marie, 2010) Studying overseas has dozens of obstacles, such as being alone. The habit and living pattern between people from different countries are diverse; therefore, it would take us some time to get used to foreigners and make friends with them. What's more, even if our society is more and more communicative and even if we are closer to our family and friends thanks to Skype, Msn, Facebook and others, it still does not mean it is any easier to study abroad halfway round the world (Marie, 2010). Therefore, when we find it difficult to deal with homework and relationship between classmates, roommates and even boyfriends (girlfriends) (people from different countries), we have to cope with these tough problems with our own. Thus, how can we overcome those obstacles by ourselves become so important that it decide how long will it take for us to accommodate the studying and living condition here. 
People who get ready to face with obstacles are definitely suitable for overseas study; undoubtedly, people who are willing to communicate and interact with others also fit foreign community inside and outside class. People in foreign countries are willing to express themselves to other people. According to Mr. Priester, constraints in China of shutting down the social media with other countries keep Chinese students to have interaction with local students and instructors since people in China don't expose themselves to the outer world (2014). The most obvious phenomenon I am experiencing in Purdue University is that when I have Math recitation and Chemistry recitation, which are full of local students, they always ask instructors when they are confused with homework and knowledge professors tell us in the lectures. Thus, they will have a clear and reasonable response from instructors. On the contrary, when I have English 106i, which is full of Chinese students, students often ask other classmates instead of instructor when they have questions because they aren't so willing to have interactions with foreign people (some may feel that asking question in Chinese instead of in English). However, they cannot get the full and clear answer from their classmates, so they may be misled. Mr. Priester believes that the main problem within Chinese students is that professors are always the last person to know the question (2014). 
Instead of just staying in the same classroom with foreigners, we will meet and know lots of people from all around the world. Therefore, if a student is willing to have interaction with foreigners and to make friends with them, he (she) is more likely to get involved in the local community. "The experience of living and studying in another country was so eye-opening. It tested preconceptions and habits I wasn't even aware were so ingrained in me," says Cynthia Perras (IES Paris, 1981). Additionally, what's significant is, this intercultural benefits are not just gone but continue to impact participants' lives instead long after their time abroad. Almost all of the respondents (94 percent) reported that the experience continues to influence interactions with people from different cultures, and 23 percent still maintain contact with friends they met in foreign universities. Nearly ninety percent said that the experience influenced them to seek out a greater diversity of friends, and 64 percent said that it also influenced them to explore other cultures. (Dwyer & Peters, 2014) Therefore, I believe having more interaction with local students is also important for students who go abroad for study. 
Having a clear plan for career and future is also essential for us students. As we all know, in American universities, there are lots of internship and co-op opportunities such as Industrial Roundtable at Purdue University. According to research by Dwyer and Peters: students, who hope to gain the most career impact from study abroad, should choose an internship as part of their curriculum. Remarkably, 70 percent of intern respondents reported that study abroad ignited interest in a career direction pursued after the experience, compared to 60 percent of non-intern respondents. In addition, 83 percent said that it allowed them to acquire skill sets that influenced their career path, compared to 75 percent who did not intern. (2014) Thus, I believe that with clear plan for the future as well as wide opportunities American universities offer us, we can earn lots of working experience for the career we probably take after graduation, which is really helpful. 
In conclusion, studying abroad is not a trend that everyone could follow blindly. Students and their parents should be aware of the impacts and situation that occur when studying abroad (personality, habits, academics and so on). Only those who have full preparation of studying abroad are aware of what they can do to overcome obstacles, to face setbacks, get involved as well as have more interaction with local community and have a plan for the career and future would be best suit for studying abroad. In a word, studying abroad will be amazing as long as you find whether it fits you! 
Reference 
David, S. (2008 June 2). Sending students, faculty to study abroad opens door to both opportunities, risks. National Underwriter, 112, P28-31. 
Dwyer, M. & Peters, K. The benefits of study abroad. Retrieved from Oct. 30th 2014. 
http://www.iesabroad.org/study-abroad/news/benefits-study-abroad 
Gretchen, C. (2012, December 1). Studying abroad in college helps graduates make more money and land more jobs. Diversity Employers, P11-13. 
Howard, L. (2003, August 19). Why more students are studying abroad. Christian Science Monitor. 
Marie, M. (2010 April 21). Disadvantages of studying abroad. Retrieved from Oct. 30th 2014. 
http://www.slideshare.net/xxrockerz/disadvantages-of-studying-abroad# 
Ming, H. (2001). On secondary school students studying abroad to avoid college admission exams. Chinese Education & Society, 34, 35. 
Oosterbeek, H. & Webbink, D. (2009). Does Studying Abroad Induce a Brain Drain? Economica, P347-366. 
Songguo, Y. (2010). Why Do College and Middle School Student Want to Go Abroad. Chinese Education & Society. P34. 
Waghann, J. (2013 November 8). Studying abroad: a prevailing trend for Chinese students. Retrieved from Oct. 30th 2014. http://english.cntv.cn/program/cultureexpress/20131108/101852.shtml 
