Making American friends 
Introductory Paragraph: 
Do I learn knowledge about American culture more or overcome inward fear to make conversation with American students first? I believe many international students in American schools have the similar question with that. Nowadays, many students choose to study abroad in the United States, because America has lots of excellent universities that have outstanding educational quality. However, most international students cannot adapt to the American environment, they feel lonely and pitiful. Thus, how to make American friends becomes the main problem plagued most international students. As a Chinese students studying in the United States, I have the same problem with most international students. I am eager to want to solve the problem why international students struggle so much to find American friends. Now, there are two main views about why international students have struggle making American friends. In the society. The first is the differences of culture and language between American and international students. The second reason is that international students are unable to overcome their fears to communicate with American students because of their bashfulness and other psychological factors. I agree with the second view. 
Body Paragraph: 
1. Many American students are friendly, however, most international students are too shy to make the first step to talk to international students because they fear that they may react in a negative way. "American students are nice as all the international students on your campuses. Go and talk to American students if they do not come and talk to you first. That is the only way we can promote cultural understanding between people from different cultures." (Bado, 2006, p.1) 
2. Nowadays, with the development of globalization, the cultural gaps between different countries are getting narrowed. It is easy for international students to find a common language with American students. They just do not dear to communicate with American students. "Globalization is the process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views, products, ideas and other aspects of culture. Advances in transportation and telecommunication, including the rise of the telegraph and its posterity the Internet, are major factors in globalization, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities." (Wikipedia, 2014) 
