Why Chinese people choose German vehicle? 
Why Chinese people choose German vehicle? 
China's auto market is constantly growing. Basic saturated market with the west, Chinese automobile industry development trend of increased year by year. In Germany, on average every thousands of residents has more than 500 cars; while the average every one thousand Chinese people have 50 cars. The emerging market development space and potential is almost endless. Chinese people's love for German cars are well-known, annual income statements from some of the major German car manufacturers show can be seen, the strength of the Chinese people cannot be ignored in terms of buying a car. The fond of Chinese consumers to German cars are obvious, but what is the cause of promoting German cars? 
Have a capacious and comfortable, luxurious car is the dream of much Chinese people life. While traditional German brand, BMW, Audi and Mercedes should are among the best in the dream of many people on the list. In the three competing for the Chinese market competition, the Volkswagen group subsidiary - Audi. According to the company on July 6, 2014, in June, the Audi car sales in China to 27658 vehicles, all-time monthly sales record. Audi is a hot brand for the Chinese government organs, enterprises and institutions, many Chinese government officials of official cars is a black Audi. And there are a lot of people say, "A sign of success is to have a black A6". 
Chinese people love big things and it is not only the words that so simple. It is already integrated into every aspect of life. On a dinner party, want to large banquet guests, both the diners three thousand old spectacle; For housing, the Chinese people also want to live in big houses, the bigger the house, there are magnificent. And have the same proportion of cars and house, big, big space model also is popular among Chinese consumers, because they think a car is not for their own, and more is bearing the family needs. From is seen as a luxury car, gradually to the popularization, buy a car is no longer a difficult for Chinese family consumers, more and more people for supporting face, splendor, began to chase brand, being large and costly. Many foreign brands to cater to Chinese consumers' consumption habits roll out C, D or even E models. And as the enrichment of spiritual life and the road gradually prevailed, SUV and become the main stream of people buy cars, full size, great space and a series of large SUV also hot market, the people rushed to buy. 
WHY CHINESE PEOPLE CHOOSE GERMAN VEHICLE 
