Non-government-organization cannot take part of government's role and function as the government could 
Following the previous interview report, I have develop further thinking into my topic of the role of government and how non-government-organization(NGO) can take part of government and act as an individual. My interviewee provides more idea to me which was completely different from some of the research resources had discussed. Some of the research paper had stated that roles of government can be taken placed by other NGO. For instance, the roles of efforts made by the government and providing social welfare or health care are crucial. 
However, during the interview, "I see that those are the only aspect of government that has argument about whether it can be replaced or not". In fact, I start to understand that the role of government is to establish rule for markets to work, system of reputation so that investors can feel secure to invest their money into the market. It is true that some of the conservative government take laissez-faire to the market. However the foundation is still constructed by the government. It is a very true fact that economic is independent from government at most time. Without the government establishes the rules and reputation system, the market will end up untrustworthy or repute less. On this argumentative essay, I hold a definite position toward opposing the idea of replacing the government with a series of non-government-organizations. It is neither reliable nor possible to achieve. 
If we argue non-government-organization in its way of operation, we can draw the connection to the title "non-profit". However, an organization can't run without funding so NGO will attract social capital. "Social Capital is a type of collection of a framework of social resource which is willing to provide to individual or the individual forming a collection."[Chenhall, 2010] A core part of NGO is that they draw social connections between a social capital and the part where have demands. Briefly, the social capital is a group of provider provides help to individual or a collection of individual. The demand doesn't have to be money-related, it can also be social or culture related. Some NGO has involved in providing social welfare. As NGO doing so, it have to attract social capital that has the resource to provide a service to the public. NGO needs to attract the social capital and form a combination which the NGO will be a medium between the service providers or suppliers and receivers. 
More than that, the NGO couldn't work efficiently when there's no well-formed social infrastructure exists. NGO mainly contact with a leader in a community and rely on municipal level government to associate NGO with their project. However, the NGO can't exist by its own due to its non-profit characteristic. This is the first point I want to argue, the NGO act as a middle part which helps to form the connection between receivers and provides. It can't provide any service by itself. "This is a specific example I use social welfare which I have demonstrated in the previous interview report which the NGO have so less accessible resource compare to a government so it can't push a social welfare project to a large population scale". "Some of programs require so much money input at the start stage which causes so much problem on the budget". Then I stress that the NGO can facilitate the parts where individual hardly get its demanding voice to a big company and a big company can hardly help an individual. With NGO, the part can work more fluently just like an engine work with the lubricant. 
What's more to argue on the role of government is the political campaigning. Political campaigning or marketing is the action which a political party uses strategies to gain popularity in the public. In American political system, the campaigning can be done by the political party itself, by the related interest group and media on television. As technology develops in recent decades, social media becomes a rapid developing method of political campaigning. Specifically, Twitter is very popular among people. "When we step into 2000s, research shows modern politic has gap between the public and the gap is becoming wider."(Blais and Rubenson 2013) "Increasing voters stop voting for the political party during election". "The democratic representatives start to losing contact with the people who they are representing" become big issues in politic. However, with the assistance if Twitter, the candidates and politicians can develop contact with individual voter. 
Due to the non-reciprocal structure of Twitter, it makes the information published on Twitter available to everyone. The other special characteristics of Twitter make it very suitable for information publication. "First one it can add "Hashtag" to the short message to make the under category when people want to subscribe. Second is you can @ someone else if you really want them to see the information. Third is the word limit of 140 word maximum makes each published text is brief and strong so that people can read and understand in short amount of time. Last but not least, Twitter has statistic states that 80% of the active Twitter users are on mobile." There are lots of politicians nowadays started to use Twitter as a platform for them to release information and have direct contact with the voters. It's not difficult to see people's require on immediate contact with others brings the platform like twitter to the stage of political campaigning. 
As more individual politicians and candidates start their own social media account, more people is going to focus back into politic because it is no longer a field which is very far from you. As I aforementioned, the political party as a whole campaigning on the stage using speeches. There are conventional media providing support to the parties. There are interests groups provide campaigning for the candidates. And now individual candidates can campaign for themselves. The political campaigning as a collective body becomes increasingly complete. 
Health care is a part where get a lot of NGO involved all around the world. However there are still problem exist throughout the world, for instance,"The problem is not one of the lack of technological solution to these problem of an injury or disease, but rather the one of inability to distribute and deliver these information to those in need." In some of the developing or undeveloped countries, key problems which stand on their way to develop are diseases and poverty. In the source article, "a-municipal-size community receives help from an NGO". This organization receives IMF or World Bank's budget on some health program. The organization uses the money to provide help to the local residences in the community. This organization exists as a median part between the money invested and the people who need the help. It uses the money to find the resources which can help the community. It is a fact that the service they can provide can help the local people more than only donate money. But there are still limitations exist. For instance, if the organization wants to help more people, a few cities or even a province, more work is going to be required to publish their information so that people can see it. The difficulty is not to provide the help itself but to push the help project forward to every individual. 
In conclusion, the role of government can be very important not just to the party itself but to the bigger society or even to a country. The time when we gain more information about a political party is during the campaigning not reading their White book about their own ideology. When we consider the action of campaigning or marketing more than just a gain support from the society but help the party to get better or even the future government to be better, it becomes a crucial part of a government's role to succeed on the campaigning part. Campaigning will bring comparison between different parties, the comparison can help each party to develop. More than that, I see NGO has advantage on gaining support from local community and individual companies. Nevertheless, when they have to apply their duty to a larger scale which covers more population, and more resources. A NGO will be overwhelmed and hardly apply. The NGO always have very small amount of accessible resource than even a small government. They usually have less resource belong to themselves which rely them more or less on external body of financing. Those factors make a NGO to replace a government's role almost impossible to achieve. More than that, it's true that a government's succession can be crucial to a larger society's succession. 
Bibliography: 
1. Chenhall, Robert H., Hall, Matthew, and Smith, David. "Social Capital and Management Control Systems: A Study of a Non-government Organization." Accounting, Organizations and Society 35. 8 (2010): 737-56. Print. 
3. Poore, P. "Availability of Quality Vaccines: Policies of a Non-government Organization." Vaccine 10. 13 (1992): 958-60. Web. 
4. Vergeer, Maurice. "Twitter and Political Campaigning." Sociology Compass 9. 9 (2015): 745-60. Web. 
