Argumentative Essay (Final Draft) 
27 April 2015 
1020 words 
In Malaysia, high school and college students are taught to do things on their own. Working alone is a natural part of the classroom culture, and no good student will want to violate that culture. For example, if high school students in a class were asked to do a lab report, they would have to do it individually. If two students were caught having few same sentences in their lab report, they will get no point for the lab. The United States presents a contrasting case to Malaysia. For example, in the United States, working in-group is often the preferred way to solve various kinds of task because it is believed to produce a better outcome than individual learning. Unlike Malaysian chemistry class in where students submit individual lab reports, the United States chemistry classrooms normally require students to submit one lab report per group. This difference brought me to my research question. Is individual work better than group work or is it otherwise? In my personal experience, I think that group work is better than individual work; however, findings from researchers and the views from an expert that I interviewed must be considered. 
Efficiency and Enthusiasm 
One thing that differentiates individual work and group work is the outcomes produced. In the article, 'Enthusiasm Vs. Effectiveness in Group and Individual Problem Solving', Milton (1965) mentioned that individual work is better compared to group activities in intellectual tasks. This is because, completing intellectual task individually will produce higher efficiency than that of group activities. Moreover, Milton (1965) suggested that group activities could produce greater enthusiasm for a task, despite their lower efficiency compared to when the task is done individually. 
However, according to the expert I interviewed, Professor Sears, he stated that both individual and group work could actually produce high efficiency and enthusiasm for a task depending on the situation. Firstly, he stated that there is a good chance that an individual can gain more when he or she completed a task alone at a high level. However, if the individual struggle immensely, then, he or she would not produce an outcome with higher efficiency and would be inferior to that of the efficiency produced by a group. 
Along the same idea, the expert that I interviewed stated that sometimes, working in group could produce greater enthusiasm than individually but not absolutely especially in few cases where the task is very difficult. Furthermore, he mentioned that there is certainly an evidence that showed working in group can increase motivation but there are also one that proved working in group can lead to process loss. 
Group Performance vs. Best Individual Performance 
Next, there is an argument between researchers regarding the best individual performance and group performance. Based on the article 'Group Versus Individual: Are N + 1 Heads Are Better Than One', Hill (1982) suggested that group performance are often inferior to that of the best individual in a statistical aggregate. Besides, Hill confirmed through his research that the performance of a group could be inferior to the work of on exceptional individual especially if the group has a few low-ability individuals working with them. 
However, according to the expert that I interviewed, Professor <Name>, he concluded that the performance of a group or the best individual is dependent on the type of task that was being given to them. If the task is demonstrable, then, group performance will be superior to the best individual performance. 
Demonstrable task is a type of task that is possible to be demonstrated by using solutions. An example of a demonstrable task is mathematics questions. However, if the task is related to memory such as memorizing words, then, the best individual will produce a better performance than the group. Besides, he strengthens his answer by using one of his researches with his colleague. They found that, for accelerated mathematics student, which refers to the student in advanced mathematic classes, working in pair actually hindered their performance and that when they work individually, they significantly outperformed their collaborative peers. In addition, he also found that, when traditional students, which refer to the student in a normal mathematics classes, work individually, they could hardly found a single correct answer on their task. 
Conclusion 
Based on the articles that I have gathered and an interview with an expert, it can be concluded that we cannot generalize whether group work is better than individual work or vice versa. The important thing is to focus on the difficulty of the task as well as the type of task that were being given. For an example, based on what Milton said about performing intellectual tasks individually would result in higher efficiency while doing in a group would result in higher enthusiasm might be true, but not in all cases. I am more inclined to agree on my expert's view that both individual and group could produce a task of high efficiency and enthusiasm; it just depends on the difficulty of the tasks. If the tasks were difficult, enthusiasm might be hard to achieve when working in group, therefore, working individually would be a better option. Additionally, he stated that if the tasks were difficult, working individually would not produce a higher efficiency compared to when working in group. In this case, working in group would be a better option. 
Next, Hill's (1982) suggestion that group performance are often inferior to that of the best individual in a statistical aggregate can also be true, but not in all cases. I am more inclined to agree on my expert's view that whether group performance is better than the best individual performance or vice versa is dependent on the type of task given to them. If the task is demonstrable, group performance will be superior to the best individual performance but if it is not, the outcome will be the opposite. 
