p5d3_arp 
December 10th 2015 
Pass "phrases" are better than Pass "words." 
	Nowadays, everything is electronic. Grades, bank balance, and other private information are all available online. The only thing standing between the user 's information and malicious hackers are their passwords. There are two kinds of passwords, a pass "word" and a pass "phrase". A pass "word" is a password formed by putting random digits, characters or symbols together. Pass "phrase", on the other hand, is a password formed by putting a string of words together with or without a few symbols in between the words. But which is better? Which one should the users use to stay away from hackers? Websites have long required us to create pass "words", does that mean pass "words" are better? After interviewing a computer science professor and reading three external articles related to the topic. I came to the conclusion that pass "phrases" are better than pass "words" which means that they are more hack proof. 
	The longer a password is the harder it is for attackers to crack because it is going to take them more time to compromise the account. According to <name> (personal communication, October 1st, 2015) the way hackers use to crack a user's password is to guess it. They constantly try different passwords until they enter the correct one. So the longer a password is the more tries they have to make, therefore spending more time. Nicole Perlroth (2012) also mentioned in her article that if users want their passwords to be uncrackable by an attacker in less than 24 hours, the password has to be more than 14 characters long. Some people say that allowing more variety of symbols in a password is harder to crack than making the password longer. Again, according to <name> (2015) that is not correct. Because the total of all the possible combinations of a password with one more character is more than that of a password with one more variety of symbols. 
	Now we know that the longer a password is the better. Which one should the users use, a long pass "phrase" or a long pass "word"? I would suggest them using long pass "phrases", because long pass "phrases" are easier to remember. According to Perlroth (2012) users can use their favorite movie quotes, song lyrics or poem and string together the first one or two letters of each word in the sentence and set it as their passphrase. Dan Goodin (2012) describes pass "phrase" as an easy-to-remember way to pack dozen characters into the string that has to be entered to access an account when explaining how security managers think of passphrases. The longer the better but there is a limit of characters a human being can remember as George A. Miller (1956) stated in his article that humans could remember five to nine chunks of information at a time and explained that humans have limited information processing capability. A chunk could be an alphabet, a symbol or a word. According to this study, the longest pass "word" a human being could remember is nine characters long and the longest pass "phrase" a person could remember is 36 characters long, if all the words in the pass "phrase" are four letter words. Using a pass "phrase" can significantly increase the length of a password. 
	All of the arguments I made were based on the calculations of possibilities of passwords. Johansson (2004) reminds us that those calculations only exist when all of the characters are truly random. If they are not truly random, pass "phrases" are only marginally stronger than pass "words". Truly random means, as Goodin (2012) explained, users have to try and stay away from natural language patterns such as common nominal modifier-noun phrases, bedtime story, or adverbial-modifier verb relations, never leave, because they are more effective at mitigated guessing attacks than related pass "phrases". And also avoid sport team names and movie titles. 
	According to Leek, Tom (2012) the reason why websites require users to set up pass "words" instead of pass "phrases" is because they are afraid that when users are creating pass "phrases" they would use words straight from the dictionary. Causing them to be really vulnerable to dictionary attacks, which is a kind of method hackers use to guess an users password by trying out every word there is in a dictionary. In order to prevent users to come up with common and simple pass "words", they ask users to include upper and lower cases and symbols to make the pass "words" more complex. What Leek mentioned was correct but there is a big chance that it is going to back fire. When you ask users to create such a complex password there is a very big chance that they won't remember it and end up having to write it down or change it to a simple password that satisfies the requirements. Making them even more exposed to attackers. That's why we have to educate users to use pass "phrases". Easy to remember and hard to crack. 
	A password, we want it long so it would take attackers a very long time to crack. But what should we do to remember a long password? As I argued above a pass "phrase" is a better choice than pass "word". A pass "phrase" could be really long but still be able to be memorized by the user. Pass "word", on the other hand, could be really long as well but it would be too difficult for the users to remember. 
