Cultural differences-the biggest obstacle between international students and native students 
Communicating with the native students is really important if the international students want to adjust to the new environment which is totally different from their home. However, communicating with the native always seems like a hard task for our international friends. So after some research, I believe that the cultural differences are the biggest obstacle between the international students and their native peers. 
The first reason is that various cultures result in the differences between people from regions to regions, which bring us misunderstanding, one-sided impressions, and wrong judgments. Jenny and Charles, the professors of the center for study of higher education in University of Arizona, have shown that the cultural misjudgment is one of the obstacles for the international students to adapt to the new environment in their schooling. They suggest that international students might feel uncomfortable in the communication with the native because of the cultural misjudgment which is from the local peer's incomprehension of cultural differences. I agree with this point of view. In my thought, most people are acting for good, and most cultures are formed from good wills. The so-called misjudgment or the stereotypes are just the products from people's ignorance of different cultures. For example, in china people like sharing foods on the table to show the friendship, but in America people prefer to enjoy foods on their own dishes to show polite. These two different culture manners are all for good. However, they might result in misjudgments that the Americans are selfish and the Chinese are not decent. Then when these two groups meet, they might treat each other unfriendly because of the wrong judgment. If we understand each other's culture a little bit more, then we will find those wrong thoughts are so unreasonable. 
The second reason is that the culture can tell us things about native people in every aspect, of course we will feel like aliens if we do not understand the different culture in a strange country. When we put ourselves into a new environment, we need to know how things work there, and how people act there. We need to meet native people, make communication, and build friendship. All these things seem to be easy in words while they are not in the real life. In my interview, my resident assistant Vicky said she really had a hard first year here to make friends since she knew nothing about American culture. You might already have experiences when the native students are talking about how fun a party is while you have no idea how a party here looks like, when they are cheering for a football game while you don't even know the rules of the football game, or when they are discussing the food they like best while you never heard those names. Such embarrassing scenes are all because of the culture differences. There is no way to fit in the new society if we don't understand the different culture. A culture is a symbol of one region, it determines how people act, what people like, what people talk about, how people judge, and how people treat others. So when different cultures meet, try to understand the other one, then we will find: "Oh, that's how things works here!" 
However, some people might say that the lack of the communication with the native students is resulted from the academic pressure or the language difference. I'd rather say that those words are just lame excuses. In fact, most of the international students adapt to the academic study pretty well from the report of the study about how international students experience and adapt their new environment by Professor Malcolm who is from International Pacific College in New Zealand. Since all the international students have studied for and taken the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT), they already find their own way to study here. So basically the international students and the native ones are under the same level of academic pressure which is not a big deal for a college student. Also the language difference is not the main reason either. I do admit that speaking in a different language is really tough and the international students suffer a lot from the language problem. However, language skill can be easily improved from the communications with native people. And the main reason we cannot have interesting conversation with the native people is not our weak skills in English but our lack of the topics, which is actually the lack of the acquaintance of the American culture. 
In conclusion, with such evidences I'm sure that the cultural difference is the origin of isolation, misunderstanding, conflicts, and discrimination which are negative for the international and native peers to communicate. For international students who want to get used to the new strange surrounding and make connection with the local people, it is definitely necessary to learn and understand the new culture. 
