Speaking of the motivations of studying abroad, researchers and socialists have committed numbers of research and studies analyzing and synthesizing this topic. The results that drew from the studies are quite similar; however the motivations could be self-determined or involuntary. Which category of motivation play the most important role in the decision-making process has been fiercely debated among researchers and scholars. Some of them believe that autonomous factors are decisive while the others insist external factors came from their families and society are the main elements that propel their decisions. Shown by the article, Motivations and Decision-making Processes of Mainland Chinese Students for Undertaking Master's Program Abroad, published on Journal of Studies in International Education, personal factors are the most prevailing responses provided by students. Furthermore, another research paper published on International Journal of 
Intercultural Relations suggests that self-determined motivations to study abroad are also beneficial for students' adaptation outcomes than non-self-determined motivations. In summary, the impact of self-determined motivation on students is more significant than that of involuntary motivation. 
Self-determined motivation can be defined as factors that enable students to make decisions to satisfy their personal needs and interests. Self-determined motivation includes students' interests to immerse into a foreign culture, and desire of self-improvement. After graduating from high schools or domestic universities, some students chose to study overseas because of their interests to explore another culture. The best way to fully-understand a culture is to go to that country, live with local people and embrace the culture. Furthermore, it is also a good way to learn a foreign language. Besides that, to live and study in a foreign country independently is not easy for an individual. Communication barrier, homesickness and loneness are all difficulties that need to be overcame. Under that circumstance, to adapt the new environment, students will grow stronger both mentally and physically. According to some research, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia are the most popular choices among nowadays students preparing to study abroad. As we know, those countries are populated with highly ranked universities among worldwide. Aspiring to enhance one's mastery in some specific academic field that is not advancing in China, students travel across the ocean for academic advancement. According to Motivations and Decision-making Processes of Mainland Chinese Students for Undertaking Master's Program Abroad, published on Journal of Studies in International Education, the research conducted to discover the motivation of students studying abroad shows that the result that most students chose to study overseas because of cultural enrichment, personal growth and personal improvement. In other word, students' own willingness to study abroad is the leading factor to their final decision. 
Involuntary motivation usually includes factors come from family and society. For instance, China is now undergoing economic reform. The situation in China is not too optimistic. The lack of employment, bad living condition and unfair treatment in the society are all obvious factors that stimulate decisions of studying abroad. Apart from that, some students attend foreign universities because of the wishes of their parents. The role of self-determined motivation and goals for study abroad in the adaptation of international students, an article analyzing the role of motivation in students' adaptation of foreign culture states that the non-self-determined, involuntary, decision negatively influences the adaptation of students into a new environment. Students motivated by involuntary factors are more likely to conserve their original stats, which means maintain their lifestyles and avoid challenges in their lives. On the other hand, self-determined motivation including the desire of self-developing promotes one's aspiration to enhance himself and thereby encouraging him to get involved in the new environment and fulfill his dream. 
Personal need is usually the beginning of an story. To satisfy our needs, we take actions. In this case, curiosity of foreign culture, pursuit of high quality education, desire of self-enhancement are personal needs that lead to a decision of studying abroad. After we arrive, the desires continue to influence our behaviors, reminding us of our original intention and encouraging us to rapidly involve in the community. Therefore, self-determined motivation is not only the decisive element while students are making their decisions to study abroad, but also an assurance of striving after they actually start new lives in a foreign country; apparently, it is remarkably influential. 
