Risks of Football: Danger under the Popularity 
Risks of Football: Danger under the Popularity 
	From 1892 to 1894, a group of researchers prospected the injuries of a group of high school football players and found out that "Two hundred fifty-one injuries were recorded among a player population of 598, resulting in an injury rate of 42.1% per 100 players" (Prager 1989, para1). Although all the players on the field looked strong and healthy but actually many of them are injured in different level. As football is a solid sport, players are easy to be injured but there are also some factors that make it more risky. The effect on players' later lives and organizations' lack of caring on players so this sport should be innovated in order to make it safer. 
	Football is a sport popular in not only professional league but also in high schools and colleges. A lot of students are passionate to play football for their schools and become popular among students; however, the thing they don't know is that playing football may bring negative effect to their whole lives. According to the research done by a Purdue research team, "94 percent of the people who play football don't go beyond high school" (Cordes 2014 para4). After big hits while playing football, not all the players will have a concussion but that does not mean their brain is not affected. Due to the research, 75% of the damage will not work immediately but may effect players' brain. Also, the injuries in football may give people not only the damage on their bodies but also in career lives. Brent Bott is a former Purdue football player and later become a salesperson; nevertheless, "he experienced spells of headaches, dizziness, memory loss and other medical problems - the result of his head injuries sustained while playing football - that made it impossible for him to continue working at that level". (Mishra 2014, para4). Football is a sport with a lot of contacts so there will definitely get injured and have the chance to be injured really seriously. Moreover, the long term damage to players' bodies will cost more. Due to how football makes people suffering, it is a dangerous sport. 
	Football is a solid sport which is easy to be injured but the football organizations can still do something to improve the current condition; however, they do not. In America, college football is so popular so the broadcasting company will sign a new contract immediately after the new schedule is released. One reason of the popularity of football is the contacts which make people excited. If they change the rule, the game may become less intense and people will lose the passion. As a result, the sport organization does not do any change. The equipment is the most necessary protection players so it is the thing that always needs to be improved but it the standard has never changed since 1973. In recent thirty years, the players are getting stronger but people still use old equipment to protect themselves, which is really risky. Also, the sport organizations do not give the retiring players enough care. A lot of players are suffered with the disease caused by playing football but the football organizations do not give them any compensatory. Like what some players said, the organizations only treat them as a tool of making money and when they retire, they do not care them anymore. In fact, these football organizations can do a lot of things to improve this sport's safety but they do nothing for some reasons and it makes football more dangerous. 
	Although football is not a safe sport, it is still one of the most popular sports in the world and entertains people so much. Moreover, it is a more than a sports and can be called as a business related to a lot of money. As a result, football is not a sport that can be banned easily so the things needed to do is protecting the football players and make them play safer games. First of all, the equipment must be improved to reduce the physical hurts. Nowadays, the Purdue research team has started to create to absorb the force better in the hits in order to reduce concussion. For the children, they can start with flag football. As the former football player Randy Cross stated, children "can learn rules and fundamentals in a controlled environment where the risk of head injury would be significantly diminished" (Shpigel 2012, para16). For the retiring players, these organizations should make foundations to afford their medical cost caused by football. With these changes, football can be a better sport. 
	There is no doubt that football is a high risky sport, but the ignorance of the organization makes the condition even worse. Only with the changing in several fields like equipment, limitation and care system can make it a safer sport without erasing the passion on it. 
