ENGLISH 10600-I 
FIRST YEAR COMPOSITION 
Argument essay 
"Necessity of physical education in schools" 
	In these years people have been paying increasing attention to academic education for their children. A public controversy regarding whether physical education and exercise is needed for students in schools arises under the influence of this increasingly obvious pure-academic centered educational system. Some people may claim that everyone knows the benefits of exercise and school can hardly make difference to their attitude towards exercise and their exercise regimes, while those whose disagree with this point of view would have their words advocating for physical education and exercise. Since I have collected a little of information and achieved a basic ideal for my topic: exercise, I can take my position. From my personal perspective, physical education is significant and it must be taken by students. I will present some evidence and reasons as following. 
	First and foremost, advanced and effective physical education acts as a helpful regulator for students' perception of exercise. Yes, it is totally right that almost everyone knows physical exercise enhances fitness and makes people healthier. But if an individual does not have an appropriate exercise consciousness and exercise routine, he would possibly undertake an opposite effect instead of what he expect to get by exercising. For example, in my Synthesis paper, there is an investigation aims to explore behaviors and attitudes towards exercise among older Chinese immigrants in the UK, in which most of subject exercise in a unreasonable regime, which may cause a highly risky situation. Their attitudes towards health and exercise are established based on traditional Chinese value and their impractical opinion. If they accept descent physical education and correct guidance, things may not get as terrible as those people did. Therefore, physical education does not just help students understand those superficial ideas. To help students establish a good exercise value is the core of physical education. 
	What's more, physical education and exercise also play a role of students' life regulator. This statement is based on the current educational system. Believe or not, nowadays students are required to concentrate much more on their academic performance and their grades. To be specific, they are forced to do a lot of academic work and always mentally exhausted. If this kind of situation persists for a long run, serious problems may occur, such as mental and physical illness, a decline of study efficiency and inactive study circumstance. Enhance in order to meet the balance between physiology and psychology, physical education and physical exercise is definitely needed for adjusting students' life. For instance, after doing a series of complex assignments, a student could enjoy and relax himself by exercising on the playground, rather than sit in the classroom all days. Also most of physical education course does not force students to memorize something. On the contrast, physical education provides students with some more interesting knowledge, which is a major difference that distinguishes PE and normal education. 
	On the other hand, psychologically, the PE could be a regulator that helps developing personal character. As I've mentioned before, the education system is progress and students are actually required to be more comprehensive and more like a generalist, despite the fact that academic ability is primarily emphasized. Thus, physical education and physical exercise would be a perfect vehicle for developing abilities for a student. We can see that, when students interactive by exercising and doing sports during physical education, they are imperceptibly developing their sport spirits, leaderships, networking skills, teams spirits and numerous things. They would understand the importance of mutual competition, respect and fairness and all of these elements are indispensable for integrating a person's healthy characteristic, which is extremely important in his future. In particular, a student may gain confidence as long as he is exercising correctly and there is one more label in his personality: confident. It could be the key factor that determines his career path because confidence is so influential for one's working performance. 
	To sum up, it's would be very agreeable to provide physical education and physical exercise. Just like what my analysis indicate, the better physical education and physical exercise students accept, the better exercise regime, the more efficient time management, and more integrate characters they have. I strongly suggest school to have physical education and physical exercise as a subject and make it mandatory. 
