Argumentative essay 
Feb 28, 2016 
Insight of League of Legends across whole US college 
My project is marketing League of Legends at Purdue and what is League of Legends? League of Legends(LOL), an Multiple players Online Battle Arena(MOBA) are now the dominant game the E-sports across the whole US universities. My marketing plan is building a bridge between Purdue staff, League of Legends official program and Purdue students. To accomplish that I require to the find the needs of the customers. In this article I will discuss why marketing League of Legends will successful and there are three key components popularity, scarcity and the benefit of League of Legends to the student gamers. 
First of all, it is important to identify there exists the demand for this game. Popularity driven by the enthusiasm which means it exists the needs. To understand the popularity of the LOL is in university, the data from Buzzfeed news by Joseph. B (2013) provides solid evidence of how popular this game that "League of Legends has over 70 million registered players and 32 million monthly gamers, which becomes the most-played game in the world. Even though Riot(the company owns LOL) has not publish the exact number, 60 percent of LOL players are or were a college students and also the age of the players between 16-30 is 85 percent of the total LOL gamers it is easy to think that big percent of the players is college students." I have engage this game for many years and I am currently a Purdue student. From my experience, some students play it for fun and others play it simply because they friends are playing it. Even more, some gamers in school are seeking for professionalism. In conclusion, there are definitely exists needs for League of Legends. 
However, my marketing planning is creating a bridge between students, official program and Purdue staff, which leads to the second component "scarcity". According to Buzzfeed news by Joseph. B (2013), the existing problem of LOL gamers in University is that players are really hard to find each other because it is lack of access to them and although League fans has their own club, the players still don't know where to find the clubs or organizations. The reason why players gathered is important is that this game require collaboration with the teammates whereas, typing the words to the screen is undoubtfully inefficient way to communicate. To solve the problem, riot now launched its official program for the college students, with the consultant of about 30 campus clubs. Thus the scarcity can be afforded by promoting the official program to the students. 
