The Temporal Lobe Theory about D j vu 
D j vu is a curious phenomenon, but it happens constantly. In daily life, many people have special feelings that they are familiar with current sensation, but they did not come to the places before or they did not do same things before. For example, a student is having a class, he is learning new knowledge, but suddenly he may feel that he is familiar with the note on blackboard. This feeling is caused by d j vu. Scientists have researched the cause of d j vu for many years, but they also could not get right answer. Most of the scientists support the temporal lobe theory which suggest that the temporal lobe is the main reason of d j vu, because they think that d j vu is caused by memory disorder and temporal lobe relates to memory. There are also some scientists who support other theories, such as six sense theory which support that the six sense causes d j vu, spirit theory which means that d j vu relates to soul, and time tunnel theory which indicate that there are many parallel universities, sometimes people can receive the signals from themselves who are in other universities. Because of the convincing evidences and scientifically explanations, I think the temporal lobe theory is correct. 
From the interview for my uncle, who is a biology professor and has profound knowledge in biology, I know the temporal lobe theory was found by scientists Mullan and Penfield who searched the d j vu by observing the patients of epilepsy. (D j vu in Neurology) They chose epileptic as their objects, because over a century ago Jackson highlighted the association between temporal lobe epilepsy, with associated "mental diplopia" phenomena, and neuroanatomical malformations of the temporal lobe. In the research, people who had epilepsy were easier to have d j vu than normal persons, because they experienced d j vu more frequently than normal people. The temporal lobe relates to memory and emotion, so if the temporal lobe is damaged, the memory in the brain can not be stored in right way, so scientist suggested that the d j vu was caused by memory disorder. There is a symptoms of epilepsy patients called memory disturbance etc(Zixuan Liu 2). The memory disturbance is a special symptom which causes patients difficulty in distinguishing the recent memories, the memories long ago and the present memories, because in the patients' memories, the places and time were always absented. The patients could not remember every details, so they also put some imagines in their memories to complete them which made their memories become far away from the truths. The interview strongly support the temporal lobe theory. 
In the article "D j Vu in Neurology", Edward Wild mainly mentions the topic Neuroanatomy and shows some experiment which tried to prove temporal lobe theory. In the late 20th century, Bancaud gave a new theory, he thought that neural network in the association cortex and limbic areas encodes the holistic experience of an event. In the theory, d j vu is caused by inappropriate activation of deep memory structures by superficial sensory structure. In 1999 Adachi et al. used positron tomography to study the function of temporal lobe. They compared the patients with d j vu and patients without d j vu. They found the patients who had experiences about d j vu had their glucose metabolism in temporal cortex reduced. The conclusion of this finding was that the temporal lobe was necessary but not sufficient for generating d j vu. The article in psychology today give the evidence of the theory of temporal lobe. 
Although many scientists believe the temporal lobe theory is the most scientific explanation, there are also some scientists propose different theories which had a little bit but not enough evidences. In the article "How D j Vu Works", Lee Ann Obringer introduces other theories about d j vu. She mentions a new theory about d j vu. If people try to remember something, the brain will divide the whole picture into small fragments. The smaller the fragments are, the fuzzier the memory is. When people meet analogous fragment, like a sign, a smell or a sound, the brain recreates picture and makes people feel familiarity. Another theory is based on how brain stores long-term and short-term memories. Robert Efron proposed an theory which are also valid today,." In Efron's theory, the temporal lobe which in the left brain, response to sort the memories. But temporal lobe received information twice, one direct form left brain, another from right brain. The information from right brain was delay. When delayed is a little bit longer, the brain puts two information into different time period. It means people feel familiar with the sense they have just seen. These theories all base on hypothesis, the scientists use these theories to explain the phenomenon of d j vu. The explanations sound like reasonable, but scientists do not have enough experiments or data to prove their theories. 
In order to deny those theories, some scientists tried to prove that d j vu only relates to memory, because temporal lobe responses to the emotion and memory. In the article "The Psychology of.D j vu", Joshua Foer introduces a experiment to support the idea. Two professor, Brown worked in Southern Methodist University and Elizabeth Marsh worked in Duke University, sat up an experiment, they showed their students pictures which were taken at the other professor's campus. After three weeks, they show some of the pictures to those students, many students said they seemed to go to the campus before, but they have never gone there. This is the the phenomenon of d j vu, the experiment showed nearly 89 percent of students had the feeling of d j vu. The experiments used different ways to show that d j vu did not because of sixth sense or other outer factors, but related to the organ in the brain. The article denies other theories and proves the temporal lobe theory. 
D j vu is a really remarkable phenomenon. Many scientists do the research about d j vu to find appropriate explanations. Although there are many theories about d j vu, I only support the temporal lobe theory. Because the theory not only have many scientific explanation, but also have been proven by many experiments. So the temporal lobe theory is more scientific and credible. 
Edward Wild. "D j vu in Neurology". Journal of Neurology. Volume 252, Issue 1. January, 2005. 1-7, . Purdue Libraries, Springer Link. Web. 10/20/2015. 
Foer, Joshua. "The Psychology of.D j Vu". Been There, Done That. Vol. 26 Issue 9. September 2005. Purdue Libraries. Web. 10/20/2019 . 
Lee Ann Obringer. "How D j Vu Works". Apr 11th, 2006. How stuff works. Web. 10/20/2015 
Macreila, cttest_029, sunsun23,D j vu. Hao Sou Bai Ke,2012. Web. 10 June 2014. 
