Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence 
Professor Stephen Hawkings, a distinguished British physicist from Cambridge University, said that the development of Artificial Intelligence would spell the end of the human race (Jones, 2014). According to Merriam-Webster Dictionary, Artificial Intelligence (AI) is an area of computer science that deals with giving machines the ability to seem like they have human intelligence. According to Jones (2014), Professor Hawkings said that AI would eventually surpass human's intelligence and would decide that humans are no longer necessary and end mankind. I would provide evidence as to why I believe AI is more disadvantageous as compared to the advantages using an expert's opinion, several academic journals and online articles. 
The main disadvantage is that there would be a loss of job opportunities. Computers with AI would be able to complete the task faster and more efficiently with less errors. Hence, it makes more sense for companies to use computers instead of human labor. However, Mr <Name>, a graduate student who is currently studying Robotics at <Name> University objects here that the loss of jobs would challenge humans to take up more creative jobs that robots would not be able to do. Although that might still be applicable now, I believe that a time would come when robots would be able to do every single task humans can do perfectly. When that time comes, there would be no jobs left for humans. This would be bad for us because taking away our jobs means taking away our identity and also our ability to make a living. 
Although robots will release us from physically exhausting or dangerous work, the development of AI could lead to people having a wrong mentality, over-relying on AI. Technology has made people lazy. In a subway, if there is an escalator and a flight of stairs right next to each other, most people would choose to take the escalator because it makes their life easier and they would also reach their destination faster. People who do not do physical activity as much due to taking the escalator would be physically weaker than those who take the stairs. There is a strong correlation between taking the escalator and obesity. According to Wrenn (2012), researchers at the University of Gothenburg discovered that people who constantly use a computer are more susceptible to stress, sleeping disorders and depression. This strengthens my argument that the development of technology such as AI would lead to problems such as obesity, depression and other mental illnesses. 
Besides that, AI does not have to be fully-developed to be dangerous to humans. There is much speculation from the general population and the mass media that robots with AI would eventually take over the world and end the human race. However, if we put that aside and think rationally, AI does not need to be truly "intelligent" to be harmful. Marcus (2014) argues that computers do not require AI to be dangerous. If there was a bug in a driverless car, the car would crash, endangering the passenger inside the car. Apart from that, the usage of AI in war is also growing by using unmanned vehicles to control soldier fatality rate. According to Weeks (2011), United States' use of drones has resulted in hostility, especially in Pakistan, where numerous innocent civilians and few criminals have been killed in attacks by drones. Also, there is a huge risk that AI military would fall into the wrong hands. This could even lead a third world war. It is difficult to control the usage of AI, but it is evident that developing AI is detrimental to humans. 
A downside of AI is that it lacks human emotion which would lead to bad decision making. It does not feel guilt or shame and the AI agent would not be proficient in managing relationships. Although human emotions get in the way of certain decisions where we are required to think more logically and rationally, but there are still a lot of decisions out there that requires human emotion and compassion. In the interview, <Name> said that he did not think robots with AI would ever have souls. Hence, they do not have the thing that makes people good or evil or makes people feel emotions. AI does not have empathy, it would not be able to put itself in other people's shoes. Although a super intelligent virtual psychologist with abilities such as being able to detect body temperature changes and analyze body language is currently being developed, it would not be able to have human emotions (Luxton, 2014). Hence, the virtual psychologist would not be able to sympathize with the patient, which is an incredibly important trait for doctors in the field of psychology. Another example is if a young cyclist is about to crash into a driverless car with AI, the AI system would just calculate who has the highest chance of survival from the car crash, the passenger sitting in the car or the cyclist and if it is the former, it would allow the crash to occur. The AI system would not think of how the young cyclist still has a long life ahead of him. An AI system should not be directly involved in making decisions where compassion is required as this would lead to bad consequences. 
In summary, the evidence I have listed in each paragraph discusses that the disadvantages of AI supersedes the benefits. However, AI is still in its early stages and it is too soon to make a conclusion of whether our lives would be impacted positively or negatively by AI. We would have to be very cautious in how we handle AI. For example, the government should consider having bioethics classes in universities to further discuss how we should handle the disadvantages or ethical issues that arise from developing AI. 
