P5d1 
4 / 12 / 2015 
As a student in the major of math in the Purdue University, I have to learn math every semester. On the other hand, there are still a large number of students who are in the majors seem unrelated to math at all, like history, language, arts and so on. Many of them oppose the policy of the Purdue University that every student must learn math for at least one year because of mainly two reasons: First and foremost, the calculus, which is also named 'higher mathematics' in a college is really hard in some ways; what is more, it seems that there is no relationship between math and their majors. As far as I am concerned, it is wrong because math does not only have effect on the liberal arts, but is also able to affect human beings' everyday life. 
First of all, there are really a large number of students always hold the opinion that math is too hard to learn. According to the "Who is fear of math" in the book of Fear of Math: How to Get Over it and Get on with Your Life by Claudia Zaslavsky, such an opinion is called math anxiety. We do not need to worry about it because many people have the same problem because learning math requires a lot of time and effort. What is more, women are in better conditions than men because their ability to express their feeling is better than those of men. On the other hand, gifted students feel worse than common students because their expectations to themselves are stricter than others. To solve the problem, we need to share our thoughts and emotions with each other in order to release the pressure on us. What is more, according to another article called Helping High Ability Students Overcome Math Anxiety through Bibliotherapy by Thomas I? Hebert and Joseph M. Furner, there is a method, bibliotherapy, which is to solve the math anxiety of gifted students. It means that the researchers let the gifted students to read books which contain characters behave like themselves. The readers may find the similarities between themselves and the figures in the book. Meanwhile, this method is suitable for not only gifted students, but also for us common students because reading is always a fantastic way to release our minds and learn from the characters inside to reflect on myself. As a conclusion, math anxiety is not only not terrible at all, but also have many ways to be solved. 
Moreover, the main reason that we need to overcome the math anxiety is math is fundamental to any careers and even our daily lives. From the article "the nonsense math effect" in Judgment and Decision Making we can find that math is essential in the subjects like humanities, social science, medicine and many other careers like education because during the survey, many participants consider that math has a positive effect on these careers. At the same time, recently I interviewed Professor <name> in my MA 351 course. As far as he is concerned, the math teaches us the way of thinking, reasoning and analyzing. Even in our daily routines, we seldom do differentiation, integral or row reduction, but the way of thinking logically affect every discrete part of our social behavior. However, such ability does not equal the knowledge in math so that it will not form right away after we learn math. Unfortunately, in the modern society, as the fast development of science and technology, a large number of people only seek the speed and efficiency so that in their minds, anything that is not immediately useful is considered useless at all. Professor Penney's foresight is far-reaching and this is rare now. Based on the sentences above, no matter what major or career we are in, math is extraordinarily important because the logic is built up by math. 
In the end, to be honest, I agree with professor Penney and the materials that I found that math is fundamental in our lives and if someone is afraid of it, do not worry because there are really a large number of ways to solve it. 
Reference 
C. Zaslavsky (1994), Who is afraid of math of Fear of Math: How to Get Over it and Get on with Your Life 370.15'651-dc2093-43904 
T.I. Hebert & J.M. Furner(1997), Helping High Ability Students Overcome Math Anxiety through Bibliotherapy: The journal of Secondary Gifted Education May 1997 vol. 8 no. 4 164-178 
K. Eriksson(2012), The nonsense math effect: Judgment and Decision Making vol. 7, no. 6, November 2012, pp. 746-746 
