The argumentative paper of design 
Design Pushes the World 
In the ancient world, human society started from nothing. They didn't have daily resources such as: food, cloth, and internet. Then, one of them started making the first stone product which pushed human society into Stone Age. Same innovation happened with Bronze age and Iron age. These awesome designs changed people's lives in many ways such as, people can use advanced products to eat global food, understand international fashion, and talk to their friends overseas. Thus, design can change the world by approaching to nature, adapting into culture, and using the solution to change the lifestyle. Although, people usually think that if design tries to adapt into culture, it will not be able to be as universal as well. Because they say this will limit their mind. 
First, it is necessary to approach to nature even before designing function for the product. From many good designers' experience, nature can give people the idea of function. Because nature has the best design which has been tested by history. All the existences in nature has been last thousands of years, and developed so well. One of the example for this is shown in the article" Exploring the Use of Functional Models in Biomimetic Conceptual Design" by Robert L. Nagel; Prem A. Midha; Andrea Tinsley; Robert B. Stone; Daniel A. Mc Adams; L. H. Shu. The authors talked about three steps for approaching to nature in this article. First, people need to address the phenomenal in the nature. Then, they dig deeper and observe the function of "nature design." Finally, they take the advantage of the existence's good function into their production. The authors give one example for this process. First, they realized that how the armadillo can fold himself from predators. Then, the authors took this functional folding idea out and studied them. Finally, they used the advantage of this folding idea on Lexus SC430 and the Retractable stadium roof. This example supports the claim that good design starts from approaching to nature. I personally agree with the authors and what they claim. I remember when I was designing some functional gear, I usually got stocked on some problems. Then, I stopped working, and going out for a walk, and I observe the nature, the sky, cloud, and other natural stuff. I could get the idea some point from one of those amazing thing. And I basically did the same thing as described above, which is helpful. Later, the final project came out with the function that I borrowed from the natural environment. The next idea of design is to let different background users accept the production. 
After finishing designing the function of the product, it is necessary for people to do the market research. The designers need to go to public to actually investigate what the users' needs are. There are many designers ignoring the purpose of their production, which is improving people's life quality. In order to adapt into the different culture, designers need to ask how their users feel about their product and what their needs are. I interviewed my instructor, <name> who teaches my designing class about the purpose of design. <name> who has studied architecture for her bachelor degree, told me her understanding of design is serving other people with certain innovation technique. And also, she claims that it was more appreciative for designers to design the products which fit users' need and want at the same time. 
On the other hand, there are some articles saying that people's mind can be limited based on designing for other people's needs. And their products will not be as creative as the one who design for their own purposes. These articles says that people's mind is so creative that doesn't not even have a border. We can think as huge as the universe. Also think through those critical questions with our knowledge, experience and given gift. But once we are focusing on a specific think, such as other people's need for a water water bottle, or some better chalk eraser. Our mind is limiter into this single object which is not as large as we are supposed to be. However, this statement was explained to me by my instructor <name> . 
I told her about this statement, and she responded after a short pulse. She said that there was no limit if the designer started from the user's need. She further explained that it was good to fit in someone's need first, then back up a little bit. Refined the solution and added the functional system into the design. As long as the person has done this process to approach the design, there will not be limit toward the function part of product. Designers will also make a better product based on the users' need. If the designers are focusing on the single product, their goal object may be smaller. But they can still use the universally knowledge to make the range wilder. They can use the best solution which comes from the deepest knowledge. So that they can still focus on the simple object. But at the same time, they can also use the designing knowledge which contains the stuff as big as the universe in order to solve all the problems. After their products have been accepted, the influence will be global wise. 
Designers' awesome products can change the world based on how they push the society move forward. The article by Mc Menamin, Mark, Sullivan, C.C "If you could change the...world" definitely shows how the design product can influence all people's lives. For the first figure, the designer maximized the living space of the apartment. Because living houses and apartment are the most fundamental part of people's living. So that it illustrates how universal the design can impact. And the idea definitely gives homeless people the place to save their lives during cold weather. From my own point of view, design has changed my life a lot. When I was young, I didn't have much technology to play with. If I have any questions about anything, I always asked people around me instead of looking up online. Because internet wasn't developed at time. I always got non official information which is less accurate. But today, I can look up almost everything on the internet, such as weather, email, school activities. Before I go to somewhere, I can book the seat or the ticket. If I want to buy anything, I can pay with credit card which is much convenient than before. So this new technology has definitely changed people's life to a different living style. 
From the relevant articles, related interview, and personal story, I proved that design can change the world by approaching to nature, adapting into culture, and using the solution to change the lifestyle. The history has given human the ability to create the awesome product in order to make our world better. We should appreciate it. 
Robert L., Nagel, et al. "Exploring The Use Of Functional Models In Biomimetic Conceptual Design." Journal Of Mechanical Design 130. 12 (2008): 121102. Academic Search Premier. Web. 23 Nov. 2015. 
Mc Menamin, Mark, and C. C. Sullivan. "If You Could Change The. World. (Cover Story)." Interior Design 79. 3 (2008): 254-267. Academic Search Premier. Web. 23 Nov. 2015. 
