P5D1 
November 16, 2015 
			Artificial Intelligence: The Consequences of a Revolution 
	My first reason deals which anecdotal evidence regarding the effects of Artificial Intelligence. While doing my research paper on AI, I came across some startling facts and developments. I will discuss them one by one in this paper. 
Google recently announced that it has developed a self-driven car, which it hopes will be a major success. It goes on to say that they estimate that roughly 10 million such cars will have been sold by 2020. All sounds great till now. But let your thoughts drift from the possibility of sleeping in your car while driving for work for a moment and consider this; the transport industry employs roughly 70 million people throughout the world, 70 million jobs that are directly threatened by the self-driven cars. 70 million people who will have nothing to do, if the self-driven car becomes reality. Chilling prospect, right? And to think we are just starting off. 
	Let's switch our attention to another tech conglomerate, Apple Inc, and its latest sensation, Siri. Siri acts as a personal assistant, capable of making recommendations, answer questions verbally and perform some actions by delegating requests to some web services. This, while it is still in infancy. Does it really not seem viable that advanced/different versions of this technology might potentially displace millions of jobs in field like telemarketing? We are not asking these uncomfortable questions now; by the time we do, it might be too late. 
	My second reasons drifts away from taking anecdotes to large scale statistical analysis. The whole world suffered from the 2008 recession, which led to an unprecedented economic meltdown. Fast forward to 2011, profits were in general above pre-recession levels, the GDP had pretty much returned to normal, the growth rate had picked up, bank profits were setting new records, but one thing seems to not have recovered then: Employment rates. In 2011, unemployment was roughly double of what it was pre-recession; they have still not reached those level at present in 2015. Is there any way to explain this anomaly? In my opinion, and keep in mind, I might wrong, this is a signal that humans are not as important to economic growth as they used to be. The level of automation in many industries is simply unbelievable. This is not because robots are more efficient than humans, though many times they are, it is just that they are more cost-effective. And as they become further technologically advanced, they will become both, more efficient and more cost effective, making the requirement for human labor even more obsolete. 
	Moving away from manual labor, I would now shed some light on the effects of automation on white collar workers; many of who live in the falsehood that AI revolution is not going to hit them. Jobs like accountants, cashiers, clerks, secretaries, paralegals, legal assistants and jobs of a similar kind are going to be hit just as hard by automation. The future in the job market in bleak. It is easy to dismiss this reaction as Luddite, but there is an essential difference between all previous technological revolutions and this one; whereas all technological revolutions successfully replaced our physical labor, this one threatens to replace our minds. IBM's Deep Blue could beat Gary Kasparov and Watson could beat the most successful Jeopardy player at his own game; isn't it very fruitless to argue that the machines we create will never be as smart as us? Because according to all evidence; in many fields they already are, and in many, they will soon be. 
	Moving on, I will talk about the one particular consequence of AI that has been immortalized by Science Fiction writers and has become deeply ingrained in our imagination, the possibility of our robots going us. I am going to jump the gun and say it out aloud, not in our generation. I believe the practical problem posed by AI are of far more value that hypothetical battles between mankind and robots. 
	There are many counter-arguments to the opinions I have expressed. The most common argument is that any great technological ends up creating many more employment opportunities than it takes up, as witnessed in the previous industrial revolutions. This argument is short sighted, as those changes were different on a very fundamental level. They took away manual labor, which the AI revolution threatens to replace us on a mental level. Another famous argument is that AI should be allowed to flourish because it can greatly benefit the world economy. My counter to this argument is that if AI takes away all our jobs then who will survive to derive the fruits of a great economical change. It might lead to a small class of super-rich people at the top and a very poor majority at the bottom. 
	I do not write this to criticize AI. I am actually an avid follower of the field, and I hope to pursue it in the future. I am writing only because I believe that change in inevitable. The capitalist system that worked so well and did so much for the world in the past few centuries might be on its last legs. The economic system cannot sustain if a majority of the middle class runs out of jobs, which is very likely to happen. The digital revolution is no longer a matter of "If?" it is a matter of "When?" I just hope when it comes, we have adapted enough to secure a utopian future, rather than a dystopian one. 
