Should Animal Experiment Be Eliminated? 
Animal experiment was been applied in wide range both in history and at present. It contributes a lot to the development of human beings from various areas, such as medical sciences, psychology, and anatomy. But at the same time, animal protectors question its legitimacy since it is cruel and ignores animals' rights. In order to solve the problem about legitimacy and ethics, using technology to instead of animals in experiment becomes a way that most people support and expect, such as using cell culture and mathematical mode in computer, which is believed to be able to directly mimic the living environment of human beings. However, after reading article related to animal experiment and interviewing the expert, I reach my conclusion that replacing animals by technology in experiments is not always a perfect way and has many negative sides. 
Misunderstanding of Animal Experiment 
The public resists animal experiment for many reasons, for example, animals' right. However, I think those reasons all ignore the purpose of animal experiment in some extent. Actually, in my research, the number of animal killed in animal experiment is far less than that killed for food. As human beings, we kill many animals for food. Why don't the public judge those people who kill animals for food? 
In addition, some animal protectors even had aggressive behaviors based on their "righteousness". During the investigation, I saw some news about the aggressive behaviors of those protectors. One of example happened in a laboratory in Milan. They want to force researchers to stop animal experiment by broking into the lab illegally, releasing the animals, and messing up the label on the cage. They even used their own lives to threat researchers. Those aggressive behaviors not only have minimized effect on reducing animal experiments, but also mess up the ongoing researches, which need to use more animals to recover. 
Based on those misunderstanding of animal experiment and aggressive behaviors, I think animal experiment cannot be stated "unethical" because its purpose is to save more lives. I start to question the necessity of replacing animals by technology in experiments. 
Limitation of Technology 
	First of all, compared with using animals in experiment, using technology has many limitations. According to Katsnelson (2013), technology is not mature now. The acuity of result from technology is a mystery. In order to evaluate those data and results from new technology, we need human data or the high-quality data from animal to compare with. Unfortunately, we do not have them either now. Therefore, the results from new technology cannot be guaranteed. It will cause danger if we use technology to test and research drug. 
Also, those technologies are unstable. As my interviewee, <name>, a research assistant in animal experiments, said, new technology needs huge attention because any emergence may happen in any time due to the instability of new technology, for example, cell culture. Cell culture is a model of living environment of cell. It can help to imitate the effect of drug on human cells. However, this technology needs to be used with care in any time because the cell in petri dish is unstable and easy to die. 
To sum up, technology cannot be used and replace animals in recent years due to its immaturity and instability. 
Negative influence of Technology 
Besides the limitations of technology, replacing animals by Technology in experiments will also cause big mess in the existing research. For those people who already are doing the experiment using animals, their thought will be influenced (Katsnelson, 2013). For example, imagining an old researcher spent his half on one animal experiment. For now, you want to change his experiment subjects into computer or other technology instead of animals. It must cause him a long time to know how to operate it. His research method may be completely changed and messed up. My point on this is that to adopt a new method will take people much time and definitely affect their original idea in the ongoing research. 
Unlike the animal protectors' argument, replacing animals by others actually does not help any animals in the research. According to Yanying, because of huge demand of research animals, many of these animals are cultivated by specific companies for the research purposes. If no longer used in experiment, they will not exist in this world. Their purpose of live is to be used in research. Some protectors may state that the animals in research should be released in the nature. However, without the cultivation of people, those small animals, such as mice and rabbits may also die because of predator or others. Most seriously, if we do not use animals anymore, those companies growing them will bankrupt, and the employees will lose their job, even causing negative effect on economy and employment rate. 
From those evidences, I believe replacing animals by technology is not always a good idea and have many negative effects. Although, according to my pervious research, most of articles I find argue that the technologies are hopeful to reduce animal experiment, the most influential source is the interview I done. She gave me many real-life experiences and evidences, which makes me question the benefits of using technology in experiment. Although I believe it is not a perfect way to conduct research with animals, I still cannot judge whether it is right or wrong to do animal experiment. I also cannot deny the feasibility of eliminating animals in experiment using technology. However, the future of replacing animal by technology in experiment will be harsh and difficult to achieve in short time I think. 
