ENG-106I 
Argumentative Paper 
Bright Sides of Legalizing Prostitution in South Korea 
Prostitution has been one of the longest human cultures existing in the history, and, at the same time, has been unraveling controversy whether it is right or wrong to have in its own society. In here, we will treat specifically South Korea's prostitution law which is illegal yet ineffective. Despite there are many opposing arguments, Korea needs to change the law to be legal because prostitution is inevitable, law enforcement is ineffective, and there are quite many advantages by legalizing prostitution in Korea. 
Korea is one of the 2 OECD countries that hold illegal prostitution law and there are people who believe that Korea is doing right thing because they think, regardless of how women enter the sex trade, their procurers manipulate and abuse them economically Kim, 2007. It is true that the abuses had happened and could still be remaining some; however, that is a story of at least 20- 30 year ago when Korea was relatively poor country and having a big economical development. As of 2015, Korea is world's 11th largest economy, a member of OECD, and ranks a high value of in terms of "human development." Despite its comparably high level of "development," Korea continues to be a major source of trafficked and smuggled in commercial sex trade Yoo, 2009. Then, it can be presumably concluded that the majority women in sex trade are not in desperate situation that they were forced into the prostitution yet volunteered to be in the position. 
Is it nonetheless an effective law not making any better from being a major source of commercial sex trade in the country? It is now time for Korea to take a thoughtful change by legalizing prostitution because it is proven that prostitution is somewhat unavoidable in Korea, illegal prostitution makes huge occupational unfairness, and legalizing prostitution will get Korea benefits in tax and citizen health. 
To be more specific about unproductiveness of illegalized prostitution law, it is helpful realizing deeper investigation on Korea's economic status on sex market. According to the Korean Women's Development Institute 2004, the sex trade generates approximately 1. 6 per cent of GDP, or about $14 billion annually by comparison, South Korea's agriculture industry accounts for roughly three per cent of GDP. An illegalized underground market makes practically around half of a country's agriculture industry? This probe is shamefully revealing prostitution law is not working properly at all and sex market is openly on the surface of the society. Moreover, the amount of 1.6% of country's GDP going just either to sex workers or pimps is a great loss to the country. Not to mention about tax benefit from legalizing prostitution, there are several more critical advantages from it. 
According to 100 countries and Their Prostitution Policies 2015, more than 60% countries are either legalizing or limited legalizing on prostitution. And 30 OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries out of 32 are taking either legalizing or limited legalizing stance on prostitution. The advantages can be found on the prostitution-legal-experienced countries. Brothels are legal in a number of places over the world including Nevada, Netherlands, Australia, and New Zealand Weitzer, 2007. Even though statutory regulations vary by countries, those countries' common objective is one, harm reduction. Research suggests that under the suitable conditions, legal prostitution can be organized in a way that raise workers' health, safety, and job satisfaction. Mandatory condom use and other safe-sex practices are ordinary in legal brothels, and the workers would face much lower risk of abuse from customers para. 2. 
Lastly and most importantly, illegalized prostitution law could bring down motivation of most ethical citizens who work in their position respecting laws that eventually end up dragging more women to a sex trade industry and inspire angers from hard workers. Under Korea, where under ground sex industry is not well regulated, there is no fear to enter and exit the market, no set market price, and not even a tax imposed on their sex trade. Because of this sweet 'easy money' system, it is even harder for the sex workers, who once have experienced it, to step out. Furthermore, the people who legally work harder, contributing their own money to country, yet getting relatively tiny amount of income would sooner or later get tired of the wrongful situation. 
There is yet no perfect solution on dealing with prostitution, but numerous countries have applied countless different ways in different circumstances over the centuries that they made it easier to pick better option amongst its own cases. Knowing the size of underground market, disadvantages of health, economy, safety, and social norm, there is nowhere to step back anymore and it is indeed time for Korea to pick more valuable option that would satisfy both country and its citizens. 
