Nov 23, 2015 
Safety and Security in Urban Space in North American 
According to Maslow's hierarchy needs, safety is the second need after physical need. Designers should pay attention to the difference of safety and security: The safety of a place is inherent in its design; as suppose to security, which is others going to be able to hurt you in space. Safety issues start to appear with rapid development and people start gathering to cities, where have tons of opportunities. Urban space is public area in cities and everyone can enjoy them. It may sound plausible that because urban space is public and open, citizens do not need to pay attention to it. In fact, bad things occur in urban space in our daily life: children often fall down on stairs; disabled people with wheelchairs can not squeeze into a small elevator; crimes happen in parks. From my perspective, designers should put more emphasis on safety in urban space among North America. My statement will be further illustrated by three aspects depending on different users: the relationship between green space and feelings of social safety for general people, exclusionary space for disabled people, and outdoor play space design for children. First of all, we need to pay attention on every citizens' s safety and make them feel safe in the public area. Then, we also need to think about people in need like disabled people and children. 
Parents may think, a space with many trees may have dangerous animal or people hidden in it. However, Contrary to Mass et al's expectations (Maas et al. 8-9), women and elder people with more green space feel safer. In her paper, "Is Green Space in the Living Environment Associated with People's Feelings of Social Safety", illustrate whether quantity of public green space affect people's social safety positively or negatively. Also, in this case, it is the urban area we are talking about, so it is not necessary to worry about the dangerous animal. Usually people feel more relaxed when surrounded by nature environment, and not trend to implement crimes. Additionally, according to a 2011 study done in one Chicago housing development by Kuo and Sullivan, urban space without green space causes more significant crime than the one with green space. From this study, there are 3. 1 crime difference between low and moderate green cover building, but the difference between moderate and high cover building is 0. 7 crime. We can tell the total 4. 8 crime is a huge difference. If green space is able to decrease crime rate, then we can say it is making people feel more security. 
Nowadays, some landscape designers believe they already made facility for disabled people. However, there are still many ways we can do better to give respect and convenience to disabled people. We should consider their safety as the same time when we consider other people's safety. Also, it may take more time to make a safer place for both ability and disability. For example, if one can not grasp, in the way that strong enough, he or she can not use gates or handles, handrails, and drinking fountain. In that instance, it has more to do with barrier free access to people of all abilities. Also, if we are building the public security report system, we need to consider if it is possible to a person with wheelchair to reach the emergency button. Therefore, we not only need to consider the safety and security of normal people, but also need to spend more energy on how to make it a safety and security apace for disabled people. 
Not only do designers neglect disabled people, but also they little evaluate the participation of children in urban space. No one ask children how they feel about new parks. However, from our daily experience, there are still children get hurt in the play spaces. They maybe just cut their finger or even lost their lives, so there are still many ways we can do better. At their, children should play. They are not just part of process of becoming an adult, and they are not just the biological determination of becoming adults. Also we need to be careful about the safety of children, since they may not know or may not be able to protect their self when facing danger, so it is more necessary to improve the security facility for children's space, like more safety camera and emergency button that a child can easily reach. 
If we consider the last two point together, we have a new topic "disabled children". People may think it is only their parent's' job to take their own children. However, it is not true, it is the designers' responsibility to make this world a safer place for all the children in our society. According to a research about "exclusionary space (Carmona 20)". There are two kinds of barrier of design outdoor play space. One of the barrier of understanding disabled children is lack of involving disabled children and adults in the design process. In other words, they do not know how to design for disabled children, or even for any children (Woolley 1). The other barrier is that some knowledge of designing for disabled children has not been discovered. When we consider the design for disabled children, we must be more carefully, because they are weaker and we also don't want them to find they are different from others and feel sad about that. 
When we design an urban space or build a public area, safety and security are always the first two things we need to consider. They directly relate to our health and life. With the shortage of any of these two, no matter how beautiful this place is or how much money was spent, the facility will be abandoned at last, because no one want to put their health and life in danger. It is our duty to make our city a safer and more secure place. 
Reference 
Carmona, Matthew. "Contemporary Public Space: Critique And Classification, Part One: Critique." Journal Of Urban Design 15. 1 (2010): 123-148. Academic Search Premier. Web. 15 Oct. 2015. 
Kuo, Frances E., and William C. Sullivan. "Environment and crime in the inner city does vegetation reduce crime?." Environment and behavior 33. 3 (2001): 343-367 
Maas, Jolanda. "Is Green Space in the Living Environment Associated with People's Feelings of Social Safety?" Vol. 41. 2009. Web. 
Woolley."Now Being Social: The Barrier of Designing Outdoor Play Spaces for Disabled Children" Children & Society Vol. 27. 2013. Web. 
