ENGL 106i 
p5d1_arp 
November 19, 2015 
Was Chinese Traditional Music not as Prosperous as Western Music in History? 
Music, is so relevant to our life, and to tremendous of people, isn't a hobby but a career, a life. Music contains lots of different branches, pop music, country music, or classical music and etc. In this argument paper, I will keep focusing on the Chinese traditional music and Western classical music. I heard lots of people told that Chinese traditional music is not as prosperous and influential as western music, because they hardly knew Chinese famous musicians like Mozart and Beethoven and compositions like Beethoven's Fifth. Even I thought so previously. However, with deeper researching on my topics, interviewing a expert, reading professional articles about my research. I believe that Chinese traditional music was as prosperous, as western music, even more influential than western music, to some extent. 
Initially, Property of music was presented in importance of position and diversity of traditional Chinese music in history. Traditional Chinese music could be divided to two parts, in general. On the one hand, to rulers and governors, role of music was significant to dominate the mass, maintain social rules and order. As written in article "history and development of traditional Chinese music and western music" published in 2008 by Yun Tang, a pianist in Chinese Musicians Association. (Tang,2008) she mentioned a typical example that "In Western Zhou dynasty, rulers considered music was an effective method of governing people to maintaining a feudal order". According to Tang, therefore, in this period, music was divided to different classes used in different occasions such as ceremony of sacrifices, presenting front emperor and etc. (Tang,2008). 
On the other hand, In folks, music was highly developed. Some individuals played the instruments for expressing feelings, some for improving themselves, and some for living. In almost every dynasty, different individuals composed different types of music and genres, which led to a high diversity of music. Article written by Tang emphasized that "In Ming and Qing dynasty, there are some genres of musical forms which had totally different features, such as "Ma tone" representing an candid character, "Yu tone" representing a and majestic and isolated character, and "Chen tone" representing a soft and mild tone. Generally, some new forms of instrumental ensembles appeared." (Tang,2008) Consequently, lots of folks contributed to the diversity of Traditional Chinese music, promoting a prosperity of folk art. 
Equal importantly, prosperity of Chinese traditional music appeared in abundant compositions and artworks. Though plenty of people don't familiar with those traditional compositions, it doesn't mean they don't exist. In China Music appeared in the every remote time and it lasted for a long time. Compositions were enriched, various and distributive in every stages in history. An instance from article by Liu Fang was that "Some masterpieces were transcribed successfully to classical repertoire nowadays and there are more and more musicians nowadays rethink the spiritual side of the classical tradition"(Liu, May 6, 2007). It can demonstrate that the value and the significance of traditional compositions. Besides, There were lots of great compositions such as "Ping Sha Luo Yan" in ming dynasty, "Yang Guan San Die", "Kong Zhong Niao Yu" played in Erhu and etc. 
Two main reasons can explain why people don't know so much about the Chinese compositions from two perspectives. Firstly, Tremendous valuable documents about Music was destroyed by replacement of different dynasties and political power. Even though, it can not cover the prosperity of music compositions and existence of great compositions. Professional expert <name> in Music College of Hunan Normal University can verify this point. In interview, he emphasized: "Social transformation in China was usually demolishing, which caused gaps between traditional culture and music, and lots of documents about the music and musicians vanished", And professor pointed out that we cannot deny that there were lots of musicians and compositions in different stages, and distributed dispersedly." (interview report) 
Secondly, method of remembering and recording music score in western music (which was much more common today) was totally different from that in traditional Chinese music, causing people unfamiliar with Chinese compositions and have difficulty to read and understand Chinese composition. <name> stressed that "Chinese folk music was based on Just intonation1 and Pythagorean tuning2 " and western compositions usually had the similar rules for determining musical notes, and their methods are totally different from each other (interview report). Consequently, different method and difficulty hindered lots of people to learn and understand more Chinese traditional music, leading them a illusion of deficiency of Chinese compositions. Thus, Traditional Chinese compositions are abundant and enriched in every stages, completely embody the prosperity of Traditional Chinese music in history. 
Some people insist that China in history didn't have many professional musicians like Beethoven, Mozart who created so many famous compositions. I thought so previously. However, after focusing on my research for a period, I reverse my thought. What I want to emphasize is that Western and Chinese music had different features and Characteristics in development. For Chinese music, who contribute most and promoted it to progress were folks and they might not "professional" musicians by definition like western musicians. But their creation was nature and spontaneous, from my perspective, which was exactly an exhibition of diversity and prosperity of music in history. 
In conclusion, Traditional Chinese music was very prosperous in history, which embodied in different aspects, particularly in the position of Chinese music, diversity of Chinese music and abundance of compositions. History of Chinese music was interesting and fascinating, and its development totally differed from western music. I will keep concentrating on it to better my research and conclusion. 
Reference: 
A Brief introduction to Traditional Chinese Classical Music-The Differences and Common Ground between Classical (literati) and Folk traditions from a Historical Perspective" published by Liu Fang, 2001, revised in May,2007 
"History and Development of Traditional Chinese music and Western Music" Written by Yun Tang in 2008 
1 Just intonation one of main series of combining musical notes, which is harmonious. 
2 Pythagorean tuning: another one of main series of combining musical notes, which has Chinese traditional features. 
