P5D1 
11/17/2015 
Should International Student Keep Their Identity While Dealing with Culture Shock 
For retrospect, the international education spread across the world, and the number of international students increasing in a rapid way. When the students come to a new environment to study, its easily to generate a mix of feeling which incudes sadness, depressed and homesickness which called culture shock. While dealing with culture shock, should students accept all the norms or should they keep their identity in the other country? I believed that its pretty important for international student to keep their own identity while dealing with culture shock., and that will also make the adjustment easier and efficient. 
The second reason is that to hold the identity will be helpful while one international student goes back to their home country. There's a term called reverse culture shock, which defined by reverse culture shock which is a feeling of shock when ones come back home as international fellowship and see it all with completely difference. According to the writer, Natalie Jesionka who is lecturer, reporter, and human rights advocate, who return to her own country with reverse culture shock. The author stated that the best way to reduce culture shock is to learn the local language, and that cause the problem of tongue-tied, which means it become difficult to when ones come back to the home country. Especially when using different language to explain things, that translation part always made ones feel discomfort. While holding the identity in the foreign culture must be the best way to reduce the possibility of reverse culture shock. 
The third reason was base on my own experience, and the conclusion is that to hold the identity while dealing with culture shock it's the best way I've ever tried. I went to America three years ago with a winter camp. That's my first time came to America and I experienced a hard time when dealing with culture shock. At that time, I try to make some American friends like my home stay family, and I also went to an American high school to make American friends for two weeks. That's part of the schedule and I spent a good time with my new friends. But I still can not understand or accept many of their behavior while comparing the two different culture. Among the day I spent in America that time, I viewed myself as an American and I did what American did, I ate all the food I never eat before even I felt them disgusting. Well, these time I came to Purdue, I hang out with Chinese friend and also make friends with Americans, this made the adjustment easier. 
Many other said the best way to adjust culture shock is a hundred percent accept all the traditions and norms since we are in another country. However, even ones accept all the local norms, he or she still need to hold his or her identity, and that identity is not easy to change. Even for a woman who married to American, she still holds her own identity. Maybe people will think, to blend in a new culture should be totally, but to keep the culture and identity is also crucial. There must be a point to keep these two balanced. 
In conclusion, international students should keep their identities while dealing with culture shock because it's the best way to dealing it, and it can relief the feeling of sadness when dealing with culture shock. Moreover, it can reduce the possibility of reverse culture shock. 
