Argumentative Paper 
11/1 
Why Robots Could Replace Human Labor 
In the recent past, technology has developed to a high space which human labor either been replaced partially or completely by robots. Companies and organizations have turned to research on robots instead of human labour. History proved that machines make the work easier. Work that was supposed to be done by several people could be done by one person who is controlling a machine. But not everyone agree that robots could replace factory workers. There is an argument which states if robots can replace human labour. In my opinion, robots can replace human labour because robotics are efficient and have stronger workforce. 
First of all, robots are more efficient than human workers. Machines have a very high efficiency and they perform certain tasks at a faster rate than humans. As I stated before, a machine can perform work which human being can take a thousand days in one day. This makes it efficient for the performance of most of duties especially where the time is a limiting factor. It's hard to believe that the machine can take more than 50 percent workforce of the economy. But that is what the industrial revolution did to the workforce of the early 19th century. Two hundred years ago, 70 percent of American workers lived on the farm. Today automation has eliminated all but 1 percent of their jobs, replacing them with machines. Because the workforce industrial robots provide is much more than a human did. Suppose a worker works 8 hours per day, machines are able to work without any break. Human labour may feel tired and need to rest. But a machine will not feel exhausted. On the other hand, robots can do more accurate work than people, especial the assembly line in the factories. Industrial robots follow the direction provided by the constructor from the system. Most of industrial robots do repeated movement, which means the probability of making mistake is low. 
Using industrial robot is also cheaper than hiring human labour. A report from Boston Consulting states that robots will cut labor costs by 30 percent in South Korea, 25 percent in Japan, 24 percent in Canada and 22 percent in the United States and Taiwan. Only 10 percent of jobs that can be automated have already been taken by robots. By 2025, the machines will have more than 23 percent, Boston Consulting forecasts. Robots are getting cheaper. The cost of owning and operating a robotic spot welder, for instance, has tumbled from $182,000 in 2005 to $133,000 last year, and will drop to $103,000 by 2025, Boston Consulting says. Also, new machines can do more. Old generation of robot were only able to achieve the operations in predictable environment. The newer robots which use improved sensors can deal with the situations which are unexpected. 
Finally, using industrial robots could save a lot of time for the manufacture. In a report from RBC Global Asset Management notes that robots can be reprogrammed far faster and more efficiently than humans can be retrained when products are updated or replaced - a crucial advantage at a time when smartphones and other products quickly fade into obsolescence. Before a person get hired, there are lots of steps including training, test, and courses. It will take a long period for a human to get familiar with a new career. Robots don't need this process because the program tell the robots what to do. At this point, using robots save lots of time for the manufacture. On the other hand, human worker feel tired and need to relax after hours of working. As opposed to human labour, most of machines can work for a full day without getting fatigued. This makes them be able to perform tasks which need to be performed throughout. For example, a lift can work for twenty four hours without getting exhausted. If it were a human being he or she may need to take a break after several hour. Machines will not have overtime. A machine is not governed by the laws of labour which means the work time for a machine will not be limited in 8 hours. 
Some people indicates that using robots replace human workers will make lots of people unemployed. I don't agree with this opinion. The displaced workers are not unemployed. Instead, automation created hundreds of millions of new jobs in the entirely new fields. Those people who farmed before were now manning the legions of factories that manufacture farm equipment, cars, and other industrial products. Since then, more and more new occupations have arrived, appliance repairman, offset printer, food chemist, photographer, web designer, each building on previous automation. 
Reference 
http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-robots-jobs-20150211-story.html 
http://www.wired.com/2012/12/ff-robots-will-take-our-jobs/ 
http://www.debate.org/opinions/should-technology-replace-human-labor 
