22th November, 2015 
How much is employment in service field threatened by service automation? 
	Attending the Industrial Roundtable career fair in Purdue University, I discovered the fact that the management major students who are going to work in service field will have less opportunity to be recruited, compared with students who can work on technology improvement such as programming and electrical engineering. This sharp contrast reminded me that automation, "the use of various control systems for operating equipment such as machinery with minimal or reduced human intervention" (Wikipedia, 1), can lead to service unemployment. (Guo, 1) Considering that eight out of ten most dangerous cities, the "fortresses of crime" in America (Stockton, Rockford, Oakland, Memphis, New Haven, St. Louis, Detroit and Flint) have unemployment rate above national average (Mc Intyre and Sauter, 3), unemployment indeed triggers social instability and people care about it. Unemployment of public service workers is a non-negligible component of the unemployment; therefore, there are always debate, happening on academic journal website such as the Atlantic, on the extent of damage that service automation brings to public service unemployment and whether this sort of unemployment can be revered. 
Admittedly, service automation may not always have a negative influence on service laborers' employment. As the interviewee of my interview report, [name] stated, some benefits are brought to service workers by automation. Firstly, the labor intensity, the work that a laborer is required to do per day, to some extent can be decreased by service automation. Some dirty and heavy work can be done by automation and some service employees can use handy machines instead of being replaced by the automation so they might feel the job easier. 
However, the benefit of decreased laborer intensity cannot be equally distributed to all the workers. The service workers who are able to get use of the automation are only a small segment of the people who originally working in service filed with no automation intervene. Since most of the jobs can be done by automation, fewer people are needed to produce the same amount of products. It is only the employees who are not substituted by automatic control can enjoy the utility of declined labor intensity. As for the other workers who should have been working with this employee but finally replaced by automation, they miserably lost their jobs. 
Some automation that completely replaces a job position cannot be ignored. For instance, self-driving cars are able to work without a bus driver. Compared with human drivers, these cars benefit people by reducing traffic accidents and congestion, helping increase the productivity in commuting time and saving energy. But the taxi, bus and delivery drivers pay for the convenience of the automated cars. Their jobs are taken by these "merciless" automated cars. "It is not a scene in science fiction any more when you see fully automated cars speed by. On the street of Mountain View in California, self-driving cars produced by Google can be seen. Also, on highways you can see automated trucks and on farms you can see automated tractors" (Wadhwa, 8). And as a journalist Vivek Wadhwa wrote: 
Uber just hired away dozens of engineers from Carnegie Mellon University to build its own robotic cars. It will surely start replacing its human drivers as soon as its technology is ready -- later in this decade. As Uber CEO Travis Kalanick reportedly said in an interview, 'The reason Uber could be expensive is you're paying for the other dude in the car. When there is no other dude in the car, the cost of taking an Uber anywhere is cheaper. Even on a road trip. (Wadhwa 8) 
There is no way to mention abating laborer intensity when only a few people are employed. Thus, it is not accurate to generally claim that automation is conducive to reducing laborer intensity due to the fact that the number of service workers whose jobs taken away by automation is much larger than the fortunate ones who are providing service with self-service machines. 
Another advantage that automation gives service laborer, [name] mentioned, was that automation will give birth to or give impetus to other service jobs to help more people being employed. [name] told me an example that the shopping is being transferred to computer automation. Online shopping will definitely promote the development of another service job, express delivery and will popularize use of the computer. 
Despite the fact that thanks to automation some extra jobs need more employees, automation has destroyed more jobs than it creates. It is common that in some shopping malls such as Wal-Mart, consumers check out by using a self-service machine and only one sales clerk is needed for just looking after several counters. It is much more efficient than the traditional approach of checking out because customers do not have to wait in a long line. Some of the automation services and management are so "smart" that they can replace employees in service sectors which require routine and repetitive operations such as money counting, data entry, bill calculation and car driving. "In US, the rapid development of automation is removing a big piece of the approximately seven million business and financial operation jobs." (Nisen 6) The number of jobs damaged by automation obviously exceeds that of the jobs created by automation such as delivery. 
Some people, who do not believe that service automation harms employment in service field, proclaim that automation unemployment can be recovered by reasonably stating that "there is nothing to worry about because we will create new jobs just as we did in previous centuries when the economy transitioned from agrarian to industrial to knowledge-based" (Andreessen, 1). Individuals who have this notion are more likely to be technology elites who promote automation. According to Wadhwa's words: 
Technology mogul Marc Andreessen has called the idea of a jobless future a "Luddite fallacy," referring to past fears that machines would take human jobs away. Those fears turned out to be unfounded because we created newer and better jobs and were much better off. (Whadhwa 19) 
After the Second Industrial Revolution, factories and machines are used, and the percentage of manual workers in the whole work force decreased with the increment of factory workers. That was a shift of production method. Laborers who previously worked as craft workers began to manipulate machines and achieved desirable production efficiency cooperating with machines. 
	Nevertheless, in the current era, recovery of service unemployment is no longer possible and only buffering the shock of this unemployment can be accomplished. With the development of modern technology, the service automation has reached a level that can perfectly substitute some grey collar workers or even blue collar workers. It is not the same as service laborers coherently working with self-service machines in a higher productivity, but it is a cruel massacre of service employees done by automation. Now the production is transferring to a totally new era, different from shifting from agrarian to industrial. 
And yet there are no signs of the trend reversing. Because technology is evolving faster than ever before with little to no oversight or regulation, the likelihood of more jobs being replaced by new tech is at an all-time high, Wallach told Business Insider. (Thompson 15) 
Automation has been frightening a large scale of service jobs, and many of the dismissed service laborers are not capable of being retrained in a short period to be technology engineers because the retraining usually takes three years (Dugan, 4). That is to say, putting all these service laborers to newly created job is unpractical and a perfect recovery of service unemployment cannot be realized. As a result, it is extremely likely that a large number of service employees who are regretfully replaced by automation will be in unemployed status with no income. But fortunately, as [name] pointed out, government can take actions to alleviate the sudden shock of service unemployment: 1) Decreasing interest rate. 2) Decreasing taxes. 3) Government Expenditure. 4) International Involvement. 
	To sum up from the research I have done, service automation would rather harm than assist service employment, given that the proportion of laborers expelled because of the introduction of automation far exceeds the ones who staying in work place and working with automated machines. And since in the 21st century technology is getting too "smart", the crash of service unemployment cannot be cured by redistributing work force. Service laborers are not ready for being trained as technology scientists yet. This fact implies a potentially jobless future instead of "Luddite fallacy", so government has the indispensable task to mitigate service unemployment strike and make a plan for the usage of service automation. 
Reference: 
1. Brenda Walker. "Technology Ethicist Warns of Rising Unemployment from Automation." VDARE. 5 June. 2015. 
2. Cadie Thompson. "We've reached a tipping point where technology is now destroying more jobs than it creates, researcher warns." Business Insider. 3 June. 2015. 
3. Douglas A. Mc Intyre and Michael B. Sauter. "The 10 Most Dangerous Cities in America." The Atlantic. 16 May. 2011 
4. Lord Skidelsky (2013-02-19). "Rise of the robots: what will the future of work look like?". London: The Guardian. 14 July. 2015. 
5. Max Nisen. Robot Economy Could Cause Up to 75 Percent Unemployment. Business Insider. 28 Jan. 2013. 
6. Vivek Wadhwa. Yes, a Computer Will Take Your Job. Can We Handle the Transition to a Jobless Future? Huffpost Tech. 8 July. 2015. 
