Argument Essay 
Purdue University 
(Final Draft) 
Argument Essay 
	There are plenty of people getting divorced in different part of the world but is there anybody who cares about the influences on their children? After parents get divorcing, children are most influencing by it and most of the time is corrupting influence. As a result, there are always bad influences on children that have been through divorce when they are young. However, there are ways that can minimize the effect of divorce on children such as paying attention to children, parents should have positive attitude on divorce and spending more time communication with children. 
After parent's divorce, children tend to have horrible relationship with their parent. As mentioned in Levitin's (1979) article called children of divorced, it talked about "there is a notable lack of control both by mothers, who become more restrictive and give orders but often do not follow through with appropriate discipline, and by fathers, who are initially excessively permissive and indulgent."(Reference 3, page 7) In this sentence, we can discover that children tend to lose control by their parent after divorce. Mothers try to control their children by restrictive orders, but for most of the time it won't work for children and turn to opposite direction, such as dropping out of from school, becoming criminal and so on. On the other hand, single father will likely to have slack of rules for his children because he is busy with making money for his children to have a better education in the future. At last, looking from both single mother and father's result, I come up with the consequence that there are always bad influence on children who live with single parent because children will lose control by their parent. In order to avoid broken relationship between parent and children, we can say that communication is the best solution for this situation because children will try to understand throughout talking and without having conflict feeling about his parent divorce because usually children tend to misunderstand the divorce is causes by them and feel self-accusation. A better commutation will help decrease the percent of horrible behavior happening on children. 
It might seem that children live in divorce family may end up more independent because they need to take care of themselves rather than by their parent. One of my classmates, <name> , a <position> at Purdue University who lived in a single-parent household since she was four years old. Her mother teaches her what are the right things to do both at school and society and her father makes more money to support his family. After all, <name> is becoming a girl that act decent behavior and nice grade. However, for most of the divorced family, children who grow up in divorce family are likely have lower grade and inappropriate behavior. As Gordon Berlin (May in 2004) told us in the article "children who grow up living in an intact household with both biological parents present seem to do better, on average, on a wide range of social indicators than do children who grow up in a single parent household." (Reference 2, page 2) For example, parent will spoil their child because mother and father wants to fight for the right to have their child or trying to be nice to their child in order to help him go through the dark side of divorce. In this situation, parents give too much love to their child and it may change their children into spoilt child that acting in a horrible way because child will thinks that his parent will never punish him for fault behavior and also his parent will agree with any request his asking for. The consequence of this situation is different than my interviewee but it is the result for most of the single parent children. And the solution for without getting a children with too much love is by their parent is that they should control their spoil action by paying normal attention on children but at the same time doing a sport or some else to fulfill life with interesting stuff. If parents attention rather than focus on how sad the divorce is, they are more focus on continuing live a better life with your children and it will decrease the horrible effect on their children. 
During the Elliott and Richard's article, It support my point by saying that "But breaks and continuing change in these relationships can be associated with low self-esteem, depression and anxiety, acting out behavior, and poor relationships with peers."(Reference 1, page 1) There are always fighting between parents in which it is the main reason for negative outcome of children after divorce. It will be very stressful and distract for children to know that their parents are going to separate so they may release this stress by acting in a different way than before. Parent also can find ways to solve problems between them without divorce. "The discovery of marriage education programs seemed to provide the missing link. To the surprise of many, not only did these programs exist, but there was a body of evidence, including more than a dozen randomized trials, indicating that marriage education programs could be effective. " (reference 2, page 3) For example, a marriage education program is a program that help out couples who have problems about their marriage and having difficult to solving it. This program will help you out and it looks very efficient. 
Finally, horrible marriage is happening all over the world and the influence of divorce on children may turn out into horrible relationship with parent, lower grade at school and even criminals. We can't stop divorce happening but instead we can decreasing effect of divorce on children by several solution that I mentioned, such as spending time with children, joining a marriage education program and so on. Even though, the influence of divorce is always bad on children. 
