Entrepreneurship 
Nowadays entrepreneurship is pursued by more and more people. Although it is argued that successful entrepreneur are supposed to drop off from college to start business, it is my personal view that it would be much more profitable to start business after tertiary education for several reasons, of which recognizing promising opportunity, generating good idea, accurately analyzing feasibility and writing a inspiring business plan are evident. 
The first reason is that people with college education can recognize more promising opportunities than people who did not. According to the The Entrepreneurial Journey: From Entrepreneurial Intent to Opportunity Realization the first essential thing to develop a business is recognizing an opportunity (44). To find a promising opportunity, an entrepreneur needs to be familiar with the environmental trends and business trends. People who graduated from college learned more knowledge about the trends, and analyze it more comprehensively. On contrast, people without enough knowledge about business may miss one of the trends, which includes economic trends, social trends, technological advances and political and regulatory changes. Even if they know they need to find out the trends, they do not know how to analyze it, and they would predict wrong trends, which is devastating for a new business. Furthermore, Cha, M.-S. and Bae, Z.-T says that the window of the opportunity must be open, so that entrepreneur can enter. This means when a product is established, its window of opportunity opens. As the times goes on, the market matures, and window of opportunity closes. Search engine is a good example, because today it is very hard to create a new search engine firm that can compete with Google, unless entering a niche market (Cha, M.-S. and Bae, Z.-T). college students have plenty resource about cut-edge research, which is way ahead than other resource. One step ahead finding opportunity means success and one step behind is failure. 
The second reason is that individuals who have tertiary education can accurately analyze the feasibility of business. Doing a feasibility analysis is not easy, and it has four key areas: product/service feasibility, industry/market feasibility, organizational feasibility, and financial feasibility (79-81). People need to analyze those feasibilities one by one, and if one of all fails, the business fails. Both primary and secondary researches are needed to conduct analyzing feasibilities. Compared with people who did not attend college, college students did a lot of research and analyzed data, so they are experienced and skilled to do feasibility analysis, and thus they have higher chance of winning in the business. Moreover, Bruce R Barringer said some entrepreneurs jump directly from recognizing idea to writing business plan, but it is important to test feasibility of a business idea before write a plan (79-81). People without college education tend to skip this step, because some of them, without attending business class, do not even know there is a step of feasibility analysis. Without doing so, the risk of failure is much higher. 
The third reason is that well-educated people can write better business plan. Business plan is really important. First, writing a business plan is conducive to the founders consider systematically the business which they want to launch and develop a concrete blueprint. Second, writing a business plan will be very helpful to create a selling document for a company, which need to present to anglel investors, potential partners, and someone else who will produce significant on the new business venture ( Liao, Jianwen (Jon) and Gartner, William). People with college education are usually more skilled in writing, so do this important document. With a promising business plan, entrepreneur can get more money from venture investment, trusts and helps from angel investor, also they can follow the business plan running business consistently. 
All in all, by following these three steps of recognizing a business idea, testing the feasibility of the idea and writing a business plan, entrepreneurs with tertiary education will have more probability to get a successful start. The feat of accomplishing a good start of the new venture, which will inevitably reduce the chance of enduring business failing and contribute to a high speed development. The entire feat that entrepreneurs achieve above will conducive to even more solid achievement. This is virtuous cycle toward a company booming. 
