Argumentative essay (Final) 
04/27/2015 
Word count: 920 
Which is a better place to learn business, workplace or college? 
Introduction 
My research topic is to find out which is a better place to learn business between workplace and college. In order to collect enough data to make a final conclusion. I went through three steps: first, I have read some papers related to my topic. Second, I interviewed a Ph D student from <place>. Third, I collected data to determine how many CEOs from Fortune 500 have a business related degree. My thesis is: compared to learning in the workplace, business schools seem to be the better place to learn business; however, there are many real world examples of Fortune 500 company's being led by CEOs without business school experience. I will discuss this topic in details from three perspectives: 1) Demonstrate ideas from the research literature 2) Show the arguments collected from the interview. 3) Reveal the data that I collected for the Fortune 500. 
Supportive arguments from the research literature 
To start with, I have include arguments from three papers in my bibliography. The first article "How business schools lost their way", author Bennis mentioned three negative sides of business schools, First He said business schools hired professors only have academic experience. (Bennis, 2005, p. 95). He also mentioned business schools teach students "scientific" knowledge, which is not very useful in real business world. (Bennis, 2005, p. 97). He also pointed out that employers thought the MBA graduates from business schools lack of skills they needed at workplace. (Bennis, 2005, p. 102). These 3 statements have one thing in common: they are stating the facts that both business students and professors lack of real workplace experience. 
The second article is written by Gerber, R. (1998). "How do workers learn in their work?" 
He mentioned 10 aspects of work-based learning. But I only listed three most business related skills here: 1.) learning by combining theory and real practices, 2) learning by solving real problems, 3) learning by communicating with others. All these three skills we don't have enough chance to learn at business school, that's the advantage of the workplace, combine business theories with real work practices, make business skills useful at particular work positions. 
The third article I have read was written by Birchfield, Reg , "MBAs, are they worth it?" 
Birchfield pointed out that CEOs with a MBA performed better than average during financial crisis (Birchfield, 2010, p.28). And he also mentioned that many MBA programs are up to date and students can learn business skills from real business word, "we bring market place into the classroom". (Withers, 2010, p.34) 
Supportive arguments from interview 
I got some significant information from the interview of <name>. She is a business Ph D student from <place> School of Business, and she studied business for 8 years. She gave me two explanations to state her opinion about my topic: 1) Students can learn whole package of basic business knowledge such as: finance, accounting, organization behavior, management, strategic thinking. Armed with these background skills, students will have a big picture in their mind. This will help them make less strategic mistakes in the future careers. <name> put it this way: Business school graduates will "do the right things" than "do things in right way". These back ground knowledge they cannot learn from workplace. 2) Learning business at workplace, you can practice concrete skills from concrete activities. But the workplace confined you in a particular position, so the knowledge you have learned at current position also be confined. For example, Alex works as a salesman, if he promoted to a higher position (e.g. manager), the work skills he have learned from former work position maybe no more useful at current position. However, you can use this knowledge at multiple position. For instance, no matter you are working as a salesman or manager, the management and accounting skills are useful at both positions. 
Examples from Fortune 500 companies 
	As a part of my independent research, I investigated how many Fortune 500 company presidents or CEOs did not have a business school degree. I found 71% of first hundred CEOs (Chief Executive Officer) from the fortune 500 have business education certificates (bachelors, MSs, Ph Ds, or MBAs). During the data collection I also noticed that many of these CEOs are not business school bachelors or Masters, they are MBAs. These people got their MBAs after they worked for many years. When they promoted to high positions (such as: CEO, CFO (Chief Financial Officer), COO (Chief Operating Officer)), they went to business school to have their MBA degree. Because if they want to be capable at the new position, they need more business knowledge. 
Conclusion 
According to my research and data collection, business schools can teach students a whole bunch of business skills that people cannot learn at workplace, however, many business school only teach students theories, which makes business school graduates not prepared well for jobs. Workplaces provide people good opportunities to combine theory with real practices. Here comes my conclusion: Compared to workplace, business school is a better place to learn business, because business schools can teach students lots of business skills, help students make right decision in the future, but if students equipped with real working experience, they know how to imply these knowledge they learned from business school to real work, so they will benefit more than those who do not have working experience. 
Reference 
Bennis, W., & O'Toole, J. (2005). How business schools lost their way. Harvard Business Review, 83(5), 96-104. 
Birchfield, R. (2010). MBAs are they worth it? New Zealand Management. 57(4), 28-34. 
Gerber, R. (1998). How do workers learn in their work? The Learning Organization, 5(4), 168 - 175. 
