Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
16th November 2015 
i OS vs Android: Security Decoded 
I, as user want my information, data to be safe. The users have to be trust the operating system for their data security. Mobile operating systems must have security as their first priority. I strongly believe that i OS provides better security to their users. I am only going to consider i OS and Android in this paper. i OS was developed taking the future into consideration. They have tight control over security. Citrix Systems in 2013 published a report which estimated the adoption rate of mobile OS in business. Citrix (2013) also presented a graph indicating mobile OS adoption rates by different industries. It was inferred that overall i OS was preferred by the business sector. 
It is almost impossible to break into i OS. It uses UNIX's security features to implement its security features. It is developed on a UNIX platform so it inherits the basic security features of UNIX (Ahmed & Masoom, 2015). Apple has very strict screening process for 3rd party applications. This means security threats through them is highly unlikely. The pre-installed applications that we see when a new i-Device is bought is the only opening for the threats to enter. But it is very difficult and resource consuming task to find a flaw in the pre-installed applications. In contrast, Android has a less strict screening process and its very easy to exploit their applications due to open source approach. 
Also, the methods used by i OS to run their applications and processes boosts its security. Both Android and i OS run their applications in such a way that none can affect or interfere with each other or the operating system. But i OS steps up here and makes sure the applications are completely detached from any other process running (Phifer, n.d). One could imagine it as running it in a dark empty room completely isolated from the outside world. In an i OS running device, it would rather be impossible for malicious application to enter the device in the first place. Even if it does, its complete isolation from the rest will make it difficult to launch an attack. i OS has made itself pretty much unbreakable while Android is just giving way to malwares. 
There are not many bugs or malwares discovered for i OS. An article from foss Bytes (2015) supports this. It informed the readers of a newly discovered malware for Android devices. The application once installed fakes itself as a Microsoft Word application and tempts the user to open it. Once, the user opens the application the malware gets installed. The malware steals all the sensitive data it may find and mails it to the attacker. "The beauty of this attack is that the user won't have a clue of what is going on and neither (s)he is able to install it" (foss Bytes, 2015). 
It doesn't imply that Android is not secure. It is relatively less secure. But, it is in the market and is the most popular operating system. The approach taken by Google towards its design and development makes it vulnerable to attacks. It definitely supports a wide variety of hardware and gives its user immense freedom. But, it comes along with a con. The freedom given is often exploited against Android. At the moment, it fails to provide the security i OS provides to its users. 
i OS has always taken steps to ensure user's privacy and security. The results and reports are also in the favor of i OS. Majority of industries are making a transition to i OS for more security. The way i OS and Android run their applications and processes is quite similar but due to very fine differences i OS just nudges past Android. Google is really in an awkward situation. They have announced Android to be and open source access and have always taken an open approach. They invite attackers to attack them. They must step up their application screening process and impose some restrictions on the users. One restriction I would suggest is to completely disallow the users to download apps over the internet from an untrusted provider. Only through the Google Play Store, they must be able to download apps, music, videos, etc. 
