Ashes is a test series played between Australia and England once every four year. Since its inception, the series of 1932 has been the most controversial series mainly due to England using the bodyline to win over their counter parts. Due to the physically threating nature of bodyline deliveries, this tactic gained widespread attention and criticism both in public as well as the media. Even though most of the cricketing world believe that the use of bodyline has led to England's victory, some believe that the English played better cricket in order to snatch the ashes from the Australians. England won the ashes because they played better cricket, not because of bodyline. 
Firstly, in practice, bodyline is a kind of leg theory where balls would be bowled towards the leg side (bodies) of the batsmen and fielders would be placed accordingly in order to stop the run flow. Even before 1932 series, West Indian pace bowlers used this tactic. Therefore, this tactic was not something that was invented but it was used more extensively during the 1932 series. Bodyline gained widespread attention mainly due to reporters and analysts who used the term "Bodyline" instead of leg theory to grab attention. Secondly, bodyline nullifies the advantage that batsmen naturally had due to the nature of the sport. It is believed that bodyline bowling gave the bowlers an unfair edge over the batsmen. During that era, cricketing laws were mostly in favor of the batsmen. Since ball change laws were not present, batsmen could freely score runs after the ball became soft due to wear and tear. Body line bowling was one of the ways that this advantage could be nullified and maintain balance in the game. Thirdly, bodyline was not used extensively during the ashes of 1932. According to sports reporter Massie, of all the legal deliveries, about 10-15% were short pitched and directed towards the batsmen. Most importantly, these deliveries put the batsmen in discomfort but rarely were wicket taking balls. The total amount of wickets taken by bodyline deliveries were very limited. The most important reason for England's victory was that they had a better team. The Australian team was dependent on Sir Don Bradman to fire but overall quality of the team was below that of the English. Moreover, the English team had a great bowling line up which was far superior to the Australian's. The Australian team relied on a few part time bowlers rather than seasoned fast bowlers. Thus English team was able to post big totals and put pressure on the Australian's. (Massie) 
The main reason why body line is still considered to be the reason for England's victory is due the physically threating nature of the tactic. Body line forced batsmen to play at deliveries generating chances for taking wickets. Yes it's true that bodyline was physically threating mainly because the protective equipment during that period was not sophisticated enough to protect the batsmen. Yet most of the batsmen had a problem facing the pace rather than the bounce. Moreover the bounce of the ball was limited when the ball turned soft. 
Even though it is believed that bodyline was a major factor in England's ashes victory. In reality, England team played better cricket and used better strategy to win the Ashes. The significance of this tactic is immense to the evolution to the sport. Since the ashes, the attitude towards a change has been mostly negative. New inventions such as switch hits, scoops, reverse hits have been criticized. But people need to know that these form of innovative tactics enhance the sport rather than violating the spirit of the game. 
