P5d2 
November 18, 2015 
Trump's Deporting Proposal and its Inhumane Implications 
The United States 2016 Presidential Elections are upon us and as the debates are heating up on which candidate could provide the people a better future, there is one who promises to begin fixing the countries problems from within. Donald Trump, a renowned billionaire and candidate to represent the Republican Party, has proclaimed that the reason why the United States has so much unemployment is because of the undocumented immigrants who are stealing American's jobs. He has proposed to resolve this problem by saying that he will deport 11. 4 million undocumented immigrants, mostly coming from Mexico and other Latin American countries. I believe that this is an unorthodox approach to solve the immigration problem since this is not ethically, economically, nor physically possible. I suggest for Trump to go back to the drawing board and propose new feasible ideas. I also believe that the media should do a better job providing the public with more accurate information towards the topic. 
	Looking back at history, deporting an ethnic minority has never resulted in good public relations. As we could easily go back and see the history books and look how hunting down people and moving them out of their homes has never been a good idea. In World War II, Stalin managed to deport an incredible amount of people out of their homes and to Central Asia and Siberia. In 10 years (1934-1944) Stalin and the Russians managed to move 1. 9 million people1 from Eastern Europe. These people who were deported were considered enemies of the state. So making a connection to what would happen if the US would follow on Trumps proposal would be unimaginable. The worst thing about this is that the vast majorities of the undocumented immigrants are hard workers, willing to boost the economy of the United States. They left their home to follow what is known as the American Dream. I believe that these immigrants are just as innocent as those in Russians. Just because Trump says so, does not justify his inhumane statements to be correct. People should make this connection and realize that this proposal would repeat the tragedies of the past 
	Looking at an economical standpoint, moving 11. 4 million people would take a vast amount of resources. Trump would have to hire thousands of more personnel to manage the undocumented immigrants; thousands of field officers who are going to track down the immigrants; find forms of transportation that are willing to transport 11. 4 million people and finance the costs of food for the immigrants, cost of transportation, cost of gasoline, etc. There are things that can rack up to a cost of hundreds of billions of dollars. And who has to pay it? Taxes will have to increase which will cause more distress in the majority of the population. This will also leave many companies especially the ones in agriculture with a great loss of labor since many of the undocumented immigrants are willing to work at a lower pay in arduous jobs such as farming. Farmers will have to cut low in production that will decrease the amount of food on the market. The US citizens would be frustrated with the increase of taxes while at the same time will be having to pay more for food. This will only lead to create while at the same time having to pay more for food an unbalanced economy. 
	Following on this, Trump should have acknowledged the impact of this proposition on the families. Immigration is not a new topic in the United States and that means that there are many mixed families between undocumented immigrants and US citizens who would be forced to separate. Separating families would be considered unethical and there will be many people against this. It will receive international attention that human rights violations are being ignored all over this proposition. It is not as easy as one might think to deport people who are already involved so much in one society. Many of these immigrants have children who are qualified as US citizens. What would happen to these children? Would they lose their parents? The consequences for these actions are much more than the benefits that come from it. 
	There are those who follow Donald Trump since they believe that those undocumented immigrants have come to the US without evading legal measures. Well, many of those immigrants don't have any other choice due to strict measures the immigration office imposes not even giving them a chance for a future in the US. Also, immigrants founded the United States and there is even a national holiday (Thanksgiving) that celebrates the day when the Native Americans accepted the immigrants to their native land2. So the US is the world power it is it is today due to immigrants. There are those who believe that say that immigrants are stealing the Americans job opportunities. Actually, immigrant jobs are complimentary to US jobs. The job market for new coming immigrants is different than those desired jobs of US citizens. 
	In conclusion, Donald Trump's idea to deport 11. 4 million people from the United States is completely and utterly one of the biggest mistakes the United States could make in their history. It violate the human rights of these immigrants, it would cost a fortune to execute, and would make the US and Donald Trump look even worse than Stalin's Russia. The media should make this clearer so that the population is informed of what would really happen if they follow Trump. Also, Trump has the responsibility of being the candidate that had the idea he proposed. He should actually acknowledge what he proposed and create a much better way to improve the country he supposedly loves. 
1 A. Bell-Fialkoff, A Brief History of Ethnic Cleansing. Foreign Affairs, 1993, 110-122) 
2 http://wilstar.com/holidays/thankstr.htm 
