Argumentative Assignment 
First Draft 4/9/2016	 
The importance of sleeping 
Sleeping plays an important role in our lives because good sleeping is essential for individual's mental health and physics health. In my high school, I began to learn serval subjects at the same time which made me stressful. I had to do a lot of homework and to prepare my exams until midnight. In this way, I could not control my routine time schedule to sleep. Sleeping late was harmful for me because it seriously affected my daily performance and caused insomnia. For a long time, my grade was fall behind with my classmates and my mood was very depressed. I decide to care about my health. To find out the relationship between sleeping pattern and individual's daily performance, I did both a secondary research on articles and a primary research through interviewing Katherine H. Default, a senior assistant director in Student Academic Success Center of Purdue. After I done so many research, I think irregular sleeping may lead to visible and invisible effects on students' daily life, such as body temperature, mood, sleeping quality and even students' academic performances. I will use some data and examples to illustrate my own views. 
The first point we need talk about is that irregular sleeping will cause invisible results. Irregular sleeping is a risk factor to get illness. For example, in winter, individuals are much easier to catch a clod or have a fever because irregular sleeping might have a significant negative effect on their immune systems. Besides, as Michael H. Bonnet indicates in his research, the body temperature will be much higher in the irregular sleeping schedule compared to the results of regular patterns. Irregular sleeping is also a factor that contributes to high blood pressure according to Kristen Hedger Archbold and Monica M. Vasquez. In their essay, Effect of Sleep Patterns and Obesity on increase in Blood Pressure in a 5-Year Period: Report form Tucson Children's Assessment of Sleep Apnea Study, they find that a relation between sleeping quality and prehypertension in childhood and adolescence since "the decreasing the sleeping time in a 5-year period elevates SBP not DBP in the presence of an increasing BMI" (29). Computer, cell phone, social affairs take over person's night that will disorder people time schedule. 
	However, the opinions on the relation between academic performance and sleeping pattern are divided. Some of them insist that there is no direct relationship between class performance and sleeping pattern. When I interviewed with Katherine H. Default, she mentions that GPA reflects students' academic performance averaged over all the courses by making an elevation based on attendance, homework, quiz and exams. However, the sleeping pattern may only affect the attendance. Students can take control of the daily pattern in their favor way since the schedule of the classes is flexible. In other words, the effect of sleeping pattern on academic could be avoided. 
In my opinion, good sleeping quality is benefited for students because it can refresh students' brain and reduce the pressure of learning. Students can concertation on the content of class and pay attention on homework. Students also get an attendance point that help them improve the evaluation of GPA. Learning efficiency is important method to get a higher GPA Good sleeping quality refresh our brain and bring us energy so that we can study more effective. 
All in all, based on the researches about the article and interview with Katherine H. Default, a senior assistant director in Student Academic Success Center of Purdue that help me to know the the relationship between sleeping pattern and individual's daily performance. It also finds out Irregular sleeping have visible and invisible effect on person's health. Irregular will cause people to get an illness and result daily bad performance, but it may not direct effect on students' GPA. 
Cited 
