P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15, 2015 
Teaching Assistants Should Provide Limited Help 
When students meet teaching assistants (TAs) in their labs or classes, the students often bring up the questions they encountered during study. Are there any limitations of these questions? In my opinion, teaching assistants should only provide limited help for students to let them think more and learn the material better. That is, rather than explain every detail of the answers, TAs should only give the general methods to students. 
Giving limited help will let students think more and not rely on the TAs. Sometimes, the kind help from TAs will make students lazy. When TAs answer every question from students explicitly, the students will accept them directly without considering. After that, the students will be more likely to ask questions before thinking for a while. In the interview with <name>, a teaching assistant of a CS course, Chen was worried that students would rely on the TAs too much so that the students would think less and less. In the article "The Role of the Teaching Assistant (TA) and Assistant Instructor (AI)", the author stated, "Establish your standards (within the instructors' guidelines) and stick to them. Your goal should be to provide intellectual challenge along with instructional support." It points out that there should be a standard in teaching and it is a TA's responsibility to let students solve more challenging problems. Therefore, TAs should provide less help in some basic questions. 
	Only providing general solutions instead of explaining all the details will let more students be helped in a lab or class. Basically, it saves a lot of time if TAs only give the hints, which ensures there are more chances for students to receive help. In the article "The Art of TAing, A Guide for Tutorial Teaching Assistants", the author Kostas Pagiamtzis mentioned, "There are questions that are too basic or off-topic to take class time to answer. It's okay to say there's not enough time to answer that question effectively and then offer to answer it outside of class time." It shows an idea that in order to help more students in the class, the TAs should have limitations of the questions they answer. 
	Some people my contradicted the idea by stating that teaching assistants are paid to work so that what they should is to provide help as much as possible. However, although TAs earn money from teaching, their goal is to help students achieve success in studying. Kostas Pagiamtzis claimed, "The point of a tutorial is to help students learn the course material through solving problems." In order to learn the course material well, it is important to conduct individual thinking. 
	In conclusion, for teaching assistants, answering questions with limitations is better for students. It will make students consider more before asking and make more students helped. In that way, the students will learn the materials better with their own understanding. 
