11/21/15 
Plastic Surgeries on Dogs without Health Benefits Should Not Be Done on Dogs 
Nowadays, we are living a rapid development world. Things around us change quickly and we cannot really follow up that quick. People now can not only change what our appearances are but also our dogs'. Although there are a lot of different kinds of plastic surgeries, those surgeries without health benefits are not necessary for dogs. In my opinion, we should not do the plastic surgeries only for better appearance on dogs because dogs have their own feeling that we can never know and dogs are not things belong to us that we can do whatever we want on them. The most important reason is that dogs are our friends, it does not meter if our friends look good or not. 
Many people think there is no harm to do the plastic surgeries without health benefits on dogs and they can have a better looking dogs after the surgery. It is true that there is no harm beside the dogs will suffer during the time of surgery. But we do not know what our dogs are thinking about the surgery. We have no idea if our dogs want to change the appearance or not. It is the same thing with people who cannot tell their feelings. Many people may say that dogs and people are not the same. Those people must do not have a dog before because if you have a dog that dog is a part of the family. Think about if one of the family member become PVS for some reasons, and he or she cannot say a word about their feeling and the finger is in bad shape but do not effect normal life. Will the family make the decision to cut off the finger for him? Most of the family face the same situation will say no. It is the same situation with dogs. We cannot make decisions for our dogs just because they cannot tell us what they think. They have their own felling and people who love dogs should follow our dogs felling just like we follow our family members' felling. 
But there are also some people think that they are the owner of the dogs, they have the right to do anything they want to do on dogs. The thought of them are not true at the beginning. Dogs are not any dolls or other things we buy in the store. Dogs and all the other pets are different with things we buy. They are living creature in the world, all the living creature in the world have their own right, and belong to nothing but the world. The world give us how we look like and does not give us the right to change the appearance of others. People are the most powerful creature in the world. There are so many other creature have much more power than us. Dogs may seems like have less power than us. But in fact, we can never know since it will be a very bad injury if they bit us. As a result, dogs do not belong to us even we are the owner of them. 
The most important reason for not doing plastic surgery on dogs is that dogs are here to help us and they are our friends. People should not care about what our dogs look like since dogs are human's friends. Most of dogs come to our life to help us and at the same time we are helping the dogs. For example, my dogs help me a lot. They teach me so many things, such as to be patient. And they bring so many happiness to the house and make my life much more colorful. It really does not matter how they look like. There is a period of time that one of my dog was really ugly and stinky because she was facing skin problems. But I never dislike her or avoid her. Dogs are always with us when we need them and that is what friends or family are. People should not dislike friends or family members if they do not look good. People do not have the right to make the decision to change the appearance of a friend or a family member. 
Dogs are very important in our life and they can even count into one of our family member. They have their own right and felling that we cannot ignore. People should not care that much about the appearance of dogs and make them suffer through the surgery when it is not necessary. People should think about the felling of dogs more when they decided to do the surgeries. And at the same time think about if their dogs really need the surgery that much that they have to suffer for the outcome. If people really love their dogs which they should, they will not chose to make their dogs suffer just for a better looking dog. 
