The Most Important Piece of the Puzzle 
April 19th 2015 
Purdue University 
21st century sports are filled with fanatic fans that support their teams so excessively that they see it as a religion. Fanatic fans that passionately support their teams live their lives based on their team. The psychology of a fan and the relationship of a fanatic fan with his team shows similarities between a fan's identification with his team and how people can be identified by their nationality, or ethnicity. Fanatic fans are also defined as people who "are tying up a lot of who they are in their identity as fan of X-team" and "derive a lot of their positive and negative affect from what their team is doing." (Wang, 2006). However, fanatic fans are only half of the story when it comes to modern sports because unfortunately the scandals in sports have took the place of the beauties in sports from the headlines. All illegitimate scandals and incidents hurt sports greatly however, match fixing has been the biggest threat to sports in the 21st century and has to be stopped before it destroys the sports we love. 
Fans are the most important piece of the puzzle that makes up the beauty in sports but unfortunately the recent match fixing scandals and the violence in sports are affecting the fans in many ways. When fans see that what they have paid for, believed in and supported was all a scam they feel betrayed and disappointed. Sports take a big hit this when fans feel betrayed and lose passion because consequently when scams like these happen the fans stop coming to games. In the match fixing incident in Turkey Fenerbahce's president Aziz Yildirim was convicted of forming and leading a criminal gang to fix four games in the Turkish league to take his team to the top and benefit the club with around 58 million dollars by going into Champions League group stages. Although most fans stood by their team's side it wasn't seen as ridiculous. Fanatic fenerbahce fans' supporting attitude for their president is a perfect example of unconditional loyalty, just as most people would expect from fanatic fans. However, even though fans were still supporting the club, they turned their back against the football federation and the government and boycotted by not coming to games. This action of fans did not only greatly hurt Fenerbahce but also Turkish football as well. 
As a result of scandals and disappointment of fans, athletes lost passion too when fans stopped coming to the games and the chain of events brought the greatest danger to the sport we love. After the match fixing scandal and the ongoing investigations, the Turkish League was postponed to another date and most people knew that the leagues might not even be played that year. That was the closest time when a well-known league came to an almost end. Although after months of investigation the court found enough evidence to let the league start, there wasn't enough time to have full year league so the federation tried to squeeze the schedule and have weekday games as well as weekend games. This decision lead to many player's injuries because of the tight schedule and many well know world stars like Emanuel Emenike and Andre Santos have left the league after seeing the situation. Unfortunately that was not the end of the destruction that Aziz Yildirim and his 'gang' caused. 
The scandal tore apart Fenerbahce fans and made them stop coming to the games by boycotting however they found a new way to regroup and 'act as Fenerbahce fans' by violence. Scandals like these that hurt the fans can be seen as losing faith or severe disappointment and so fanatic fans can react violently towards scandalous incidents. In this case Fenerbahce fans turned all their hate to the federation and the government. They protested them violently by starting riots and fighting the police, which made the leagues stop all the time. As we can clearly see this kind of scandals hold the biggest threat against the spirit of the fans and the games we love so much. 
Match fixing is the biggest threat to modern sports and the match fixing incident in Turkey that involved Aziz Yildirim is the best example to see the magnitude of the problems that can be caused by scandals like this. From parting of football stars to riots organized by disappointed fans who want to protest the football federation and the government were great threats to Turkish football and can act as an example of dangers of cheating in sports. Match fixing is a serious risk for the sports we love and has to be stopped immediately. 
