Unit4 final draft 
April 15th 2016 
Nuclear Energy: Future Option of Energy 
Nuclear energy and its development have recently become a controversial topic globally, and many people in countries like India, which proposed to develop nuclear energy, opposed their government, industry, and foreign investment to construct more nuclear plants. The reason why they disagree with such development is mainly due to potential damages to the environment from nuclear radiation. However, although those people in certain countries argue that nuclear energy cannot perfectly be utilized because of its environmental impact, I still believe it is a reliable future option of energy. Unlike those people, I think that nuclear energy has relatively a stable present, a better improved new vision, and far less negative impact on environment. Thus, we should expand our dependency on nuclear energy in the future. 
The popular argument of people who oppose nuclear power can be reflected from a news report by Lakshmi and Denyer from Washington Post in 2012. In this news, the local residents argued that since there were nuclear accidents like that in Fukushima that had damaged the environment with consequence of health issue like high rate of cancer, the nuclear energy was not safe and reliable to be chosen as an option. Subsequently, their goal was also to request the government to abandon the plan to use nuclear power as the main source of energy for purpose to protect the environment and the heath of local people. However, the reality is different from what they imagine. 
In fact, nuclear energy is not so dangerous as most of opponents imagine. The current nuclear technology is reliable as long as we have experts trained through professional procedures to regulate the operation of nuclear reactors. In the interview with Professor <NAME> of Nuclear Engineering at Purdue University, Prof. <NAME> described nuclear energy as safe energy. In his argument, he claimed that the nuclear reactors are under inspection of technicians and regulation of government specialists so that they normally operate under safe condition. Even though general public may not be able to understand such operation, it does not mean the nuclear energy is a threat to people's lives. In most of case, current technology can ensure the safety of nuclear reactor, and the accident such as Fukushima is hardly to take place. Therefore, the nuclear energy is relatively more stable in the present time than people expect. 
Besides current safety insurance, the future generation nuclear reactor will also improve the degree of security and eventually avoid the uncertainty of nuclear energy. Currently, the main problem that causes disasters is the material of core unable to resist high temperature and pressure and that the water is unstable as a medium of heat exchange. In contrast, the next generation nuclear technology can solve two problems above. In journal article written by Shiga (2011), he presented a new conceptual technology called liquid fluoride thorium reactor(LFTR). In his article (2011), he stated that this technology used salt to replace water and to reduce the degree of radiation of waste. By this improvement, nuclear reactor is unlikely to explode and reduces the negative impacts on environment. As a result, in the future, the nuclear energy will be more stable to control so that it will have very low risk to have accidents as those took place before. Thus, the security should not be an issue for the future development of nuclear energy. 
Additionally, the environmental issue of nuclear energy is not as horrible as those who oppose expect. Actually, nuclear power stations produce little emission that creates pollution and far less greenhouse gases such as CO2, NXOX, and water steam. According to Prof. <NAME>, the issue of environmental damage is always misunderstood by general public. In the same interview, he mentioned that in face some universally approved energy such as coals and hydroelectric power generate even more harm to our ecosystem. Specifically, the firepower station will leak more ashes and greenhouse gases, and the hydropower will flow over the preexisting ecosystem. In contrast, the nuclear power, if regulated properly, will not have such destructive impacts on our environment, and it is considered to be a clean energy in the academic point of view. In other words, nuclear power prevents the pollution caused by using fossil fuels and other renewable energy in an environmentally friendly way. 
The society always has oriented view that nuclear energy has huge potential harm, and people who oppose it have many objections to justify their native arguments. However, the nuclear energy is a reasonable future energy option in the professional view because of its stable present, improved vision of future, and its nature of little environmental pollution. In the next generation, since people are going to face crisis of energy shortage and climate change, such reliable and environmental friendly energy should be considered as a future option to reduce our dependency on traditional fossil fuels energy. 
Reference 
Denyer, R. L. (2012, September 16). Amid energy drought, Indians protest nuclear plants. The Washington Post. Retrieved from http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P2-33654099.html?refid=easy_hf 
Shiga,D. (2011). Rescuing nuclear energy. New Scientist,209 (2805), 8-10. Retrieved from: http://web.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/ehost/detail/detail?vid=7&sid=b061f18f-b164-4253-aa88-ed0044a6cd46%40sessionmgr4002&hid=4114&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc3Qtb Gl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=61015043&db=aph 
