Argument Essay 
ENG 106I 
Words: 1038 
There is no track to find the origin when the world is divided into eastern and western. Indeed, the different between the eastern and western world is only more significant than people usually imagine, the culture, the society, and of course education. Education seems a less important and inclusive topic comparing to culture and society, but it is much more than an industry or a career that produces labors and entrepreneurs. All the signature culture and social facts are developed and carried on by education. The United States, center of western world since the World War II, and China, the center eastern world for thousands of years, have distinctive educational systems. Through my research, I have found the most critical differences between Chinese and American educational systems, and I want to argue that American education is more favoring students than Chinese education. 
American student have less pressure than Chinese student in many aspects, such as upgrading pressure, freedom of study, and financial requirement. Chinese upgrading system is probably effective and fair than most educational systems in the world, and it is also the most inhumane system in the world. When Chinese students are in high school, they have to choose to study as a "liberal-art" student, or a "science" student, when they have insufficient knowledge to the world, and their interest. Both sides will have to face the college upgrading examination, which test on Chinese, Math, English, and three major fields of study, depending on "liberal-art" or "science", totally six courses. In contrast, the SAT test only tests on reading, writing, and math, which equals to English and Math in Chinese upgrading exam. Besides the academic pressure on multiple courses, Chinese upgrading system has no consideration about GPA and leadership. This makes it fair for all students, because the upgrading system is ultimately everything. In addition, the peer pressure due to huge population is strengthening the chain on Chinese students, which tie them tightly onto the upgrading exam. 
In terms of freedom of study, American students enjoy a huge advantage, partially because of the upgrading system, and the educational expectation. According to an interview with <name>, both experienced to be an exchange student from Chinese to American high school, and a transferring student from Chinese college to American college, he concluded that the most important aspect of American high school education is freedom. In Fairfield School, students only had classes for 5 hours on average from Monday to Friday, and the most valuable time is the activity time from 3 pm to 5: 30 pm. They can choose the courses they are interested in, because they will never be on the SAT exam, and their GPA contributes to their application packages. Moreover, their parents and the society expect them to learn what they are interested in and choose the career they love. 
Financially, Chinese students are mostly self-sponsored, whereas American students enjoy a lot of support from government and charity organizations. American students face much less pressure until they get into college. Government pays their tuition to the end of high school, and in-state students will enjoy huge discount at state universities. In the year of 2011, the U.S. government provided total in $146 billion financial support, including financial aid and student loan, to post secondary students. In the fall of 2012, the total student loans, which contained capital from financial institutes, non-profit lender, and government, reached $956 billion. (Aud et al., 2013) The sufficient educational resources and numerous financial supports give American students confident to pursuit what they dream for. 
After the transition from high school to college, Chinese students and American students have different situations in college. After Chinese students diligently study for three years in high school, and they finally out-compete most of their peers and get into a good college, most of them are wasted and devastated. In addition, colleges in China try to copy the style of American college education, which have minimal requirement to attendance and regulations. These two reasons cause Chinese students to drop their own academic requirement from A to C, and lost passion in study. In contrast, American students, who have tried different fields of studies, and finally secure their interest, start to pursue their academic excellence in college, due to the motivation from gradually increasing interest. 
On the other hand, colleges in China are constrained by government. American public schools are funded by governments, but they are not a part of the politic system. Private schools have mature and successful business modes. Both public and private schools are not required to follow orders from governments. Therefore, they can seek the balance between financial investments and enlarging admission volume. In addition, American education, especially private education is expensive for families. The successful business model of American universities allow them to independently operate, and the high cost of tuition add motivations for colleges to expand admission as much as they could get, because it will generate profit. The profit of education drags tons of private investment, and it created countless resources for students. In contrast, Chinese colleges are mostly government founded, and college presidents are government nominated. Therefore, Chinese education is basically controlled by government. 
The control of government causes educational researches in colleges are less effective, comparing to American colleges. According to Y. Zhao(2008), researchers in China are more interested in macro issues that have a greater influence on the educational reform and policy of their nation. They did not pay attention to the micro issues that occurred in current education system. Even governors and politicians publish research reports depending on their personal experiences, which lacks empirical analysis and statistical supports. These research are invaluable comparing to American educational research published by college professors who develop researches with scientific methods. 
Citation 
Aud, S., Wilkinson-Flicker, S., Kristapovich, P., Rathbun, A., Wang, X. & Zhang, J. (2013). The Condition of Education 2013. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION. NCES 2013-037. Page 135-179 
Zhao, Y., Zhang, G., Yang, W., Kirkland, D., Han, X., & Zhang, J. (2008). A comparative study of educational research in China and the United States. Asia Pacific Journal of Education. Vol. 28, No. 1. 
Argument Essay 
