The Importance of Enhancing Sleeping Quality 
Being an essential part of human life, sleep has been seen as one way of restoring energy. However, those who have trouble with sleeping may feel tired instead of relaxed when they get up in the morning. People all want to get high-quality sleep to improve their life, but seldom do they know precisely how to obtain it. Thus, scientists have been conducting numerous research projects, trying to explore the secrets of human sleep. 
I've always been fascinated about sleep, mainly due to my personal sleeping troubles. I have been suffering from low-quality sleep for several years since senior high school and I am still struggling right now. I always feel tired during the day and sometimes fall asleep in class. This affects my study efficiency because I have to spend extra time after class to making up for my sleep in class. Of course, it harms my grades, too. Being a patient makes me feel the pain directly and has been driving me towards investigating the issue of sleep. Surely it became my topic when I was told to conduct a self-related project. During my research process, I become more and more worried about public sleeping health. Knowing the severe consequences of low-quality sleep and the sleeping trouble of modern society, I highly encourage people to pay more attention to their sleeping health and take actual actions to improve this situation. 
The sleeping pattern of modern people does not seem very optimistic. Taking Brown University's (n.d.) survey as an example, 18% male students and 30% female students there had reported insomnia within 3 months before the study. In America in general, insomnia is reported by 30 to 40 millions of people on an average night. Those people have difficulties falling or staying asleep, or they wake up earlier than they want to and cannot go back to sleep after that. These belong to the symptoms of insomnia, the most common sleep disorders. (The Division of Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School, n.d.) It is obvious, that the sleep-related problems affect lots of people nowadays, and it should not be neglected. 
While low-quality sleep influences lots of people, the effects brought by it are more severe than people usually think. People who suffer from low-quality sleep have higher possibilities of getting other health problems. Taking insomnia for example, its most common results are sleepiness, fatigue and cognitive impairment, which lead to lower performances in reasoning, problem solving, concentration and memory. For children, insomnia may lower their learning efficiency, and for adults, it causes memory problems. Besides these severe physical problems, insomnia can also greatly impact people's mental health, which many people pay less than enough attention to. People with insomnia are nearly four times more likely to have major depression than those without it. (Johnston, n.d.) Many people don't relate low-quality sleep with health problems as serious as these, but the public should be aware of it, and improve sleeping health to avoid those related health problems. 
Mentally and physically, people's health is determined partially by their sleep quality. As high-quality sleep does boost people general health, those with poor sleeping quality are constantly trying to solve their problems. Some may desperately search for a magic solution to end the pain immediately. Knowing the painful situation of numerous people, I want to help them attain sound sleep. To gain more knowledge about helpful tips for high-quality sleep, I interviewed Dr. Richardson, a family nurse practitioner at Purdue University Student Health Center (PUSH). Also, I searched for information about sleep and read several papers about studies on human sleep. 
During this project I realize that there is no magic tip for a quick treatment but four useful tips that may improve sleeping health in general. To enhance sleep quality, people need to pay attention to their regularity of bedtime, diet, exercise and stress level. Regularity matters because it determines the normal function of the body's inner clock. When the inner clock is disturbed, the body can not working efficiently and disorders may strike. Health diet means no heavy, greasy meal before bed. A wise choice may be food that is low in sugar since sugar increases blood sugar level and hinders from nice and sound sleep. The other way to improve sleep quality is exercising, especially walking, since it's gentle, fitting people from different age groups. There is still one thing about sleep quality that people always neglect: the level of stress. For college students, mental stress is one major reason of insomnia. It may be caused by exams, papers, relationships, etc. Keeping stress level low is more useful than lots of people think. The stress makes people relaxed, then easier to fall asleep. (personal communication, October 16, 2014) By following these tips, people should see an improvement in their sleep quality. These four aspects are only tips, but also reflect the things that people ignore in life. If people can be more aware of the relations between their lifestyle and sleeping health, they may take more actions to improve sleep quality. 
Most people, including me, believe that sleep is so essential to human that we need to make sure it goes well. There are different voices, however, arguing that people need not pay that much attention to sleep. That working and studying are more important and should take up the time for sleep is recognized by lots of people. I do admire their spirit of working, but their opinion is of no benefits. The reason why people want to sacrifice sleep for work is that they won't have trouble immediately. Since there's no instant harm, people neglect the potential damage to their future health and feel happy about the extra work they complete. In the long run, this is absolutely not worth it. That's why everyone should pay more attention on their sleeping health. 
From the whole project it is very clear that people should pay more attention to their sleeping health. By sleeping regularly, eating healthy, exercising and keeping good mood, they would see an improvement in their sleep quality. Also people need to keep in mind that health is the foundation of every success they want to have, and sleep quality is coherently related to general health, both physically and mentally. Since health is important, people need to take it seriously and consider that as the most valuable capital they have for their whole life. 
Reference 
Brown University. (n.d.). Sleep. Retrieved from http://www.brown.edu/Student_Services/Health_Services/Health_Education/common_college_health_issues/sleep.php 
Johnston, S. L.(n.d.). Societal and workplace consequences of insomnia, sleepiness and fatigue. Retrieved from 
http://www.medscape.org/viewarticle/513572 
The Division of Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School. (n.d.). An overview of sleep disorders. Retrieved from 
http://healthysleep.med.harvard.edu/healthy/getting/treatment/an-overview-of-sleep-disorders 
