Argumentative Essay 
Friends play a huge factor in our lives. In today's society, friends seem to be even more important than ever. We are competing on a global scale, and such a competition requires manpower. Although some people think that parents have more important influence than other people on their success at any time, friends can give more support at this point. However, friends is the most influential factor on student's academics. Friendships can have both positive and negative energy on academic achievement, social and overall happiness in school, time allocated for homework and much more. 
On one hand, it is true that parents play an essential role in our life, they take care of children and teach them lots of things. They really impact so much in their children's, such as they teach child how to eat, how to talk, and how to be a good person, but they can't impact everything in child's life at any time. When one is confused, he will turn on to his parents and get help from them. But when a person grow up, he got into a bigger world and meet more and more types of people, those people will help him and give him advice instead of his parents. Also, a young adult is more likely to accept friend's suggestion than parents. They usually find it is easier to accept ideas from friends, since parents are older and they will have generation gap between each other. Therefore, friends become the most important factor that can influence a person when he left parents and attend to college. 
On the other hand, friends can effect college students on many ways because they always be together on campus. Recently I interviewed my advisor Dr. Morgan about how does friends influence college students and she mentioned that it is easy to learn something from others or changed by others especially those who usually stay with you. For example, when a person study in college, he has no longer live with his parents, which means he is out of control by his parents. So parents can't influence him too much since they don't know what happen to their child. That person met various kind of people every day and finally made several good friends. By compared with parents, he found that friends have so many similar hobbies and ideas with him. Therefore, he is more likely to talk with friends rather than talk with parents. And his friends will give him some advice which may positive and negative. As we all know, a correct suggestion will bring lots of positive energy and save him from trouble. On the contrary, a wrong suggestion may mislead people and let them come to a deadlock. Things will never get better when someone meet a bad friend. 
Moreover, I read an article named "Are friends important in educational outcomes?" It shows that students influence each other not only through how teachers respond to him/her, but also in how he/she influences classroom standards. A naughty student is more likely to break the atmosphere of study in classroom, disperse others attention and forcing the teacher to devote more time in class to discipline rather than transmit knowledge. For instance, when someone are talking loudly in the class, student's attention will be attracted. They won't listen to class carefully and maybe will join to talk with each other. As a result, a student's performance may be influenced by the role and behavior of his/her peers. Take Bill Gates for instance, he cooperated with his classmate in university and established the Microsoft which made great contribution to the world. This decision made Bill Gates become the richest person in the world during that period. There are so many similar examples that some of friends become copartners and set up a company to operate. It is not easy to start a business independently, but things will become easier if someone has a copartner to work together. 
From what has been discussed above, I'm strongly convinced that friends play the most important role on students even they are a factor of whether you will success or not. Since students spend their entire school day with friends, and they also play together during weekends and holidays, friends can easily influence each other on every aspect. A good friend will get improvement with you together and a bad friend may be with you as long as you have money or luck, but when you are down, they will run away. Therefore, it is very essential to choose a correct friend by observe one's qualities of character, especially honest, kind, and reliable. 
Work Cited 
Morgan Karen personal interview. 22 Oct. 2014 
Eleonora Patacchini, Yves Zenou, "Are friends important in educational oucomes?" CEPR Discussion paper 7060, published in the Review of economic studies 2009. 
