P5D1 
12/4/2015 
Students Should Learn Computer Science at an Early Age 
Computer science is the study of the principles and use of computers. It requires the ability to think critically both in abstract and concrete terms. In today's modern world, it is an inescapable fact that most of us heavily rely on computers as we use them on a regular basis. However, to date, according to the National Science Foundation1, the accessibility to computer science classes at the kindergarten through 12th grade levels remains extremely limited. It is no doubt that computer science is the center of technological progress as I consider computers as necessities in our life. Hence, I believe that students should learn computer science in schools from an early age. In order for that to happen, I suggest that the government needs to invest in the computer science field to produce qualified teachers to teach the subject, and the education system should consider computer science as a science subject. 
	I strongly agree that students should learn programming as early as they can because it has a lot of benefits beyond just obtaining a job in the technology field. It is an academic subject that can train students to think critically out of the box. This type of cognitive thinking is a skill that all employers would like their workers to have. Also, critical thinking will enhance a student's ability to deduce from what he or she knows and use it to solve problems. According to an article2 written by Kevin Maney, ". in 2030, when today's 10 year olds are in the job market, they'll need to be creative, problem-solving design thinkers who can teach a machine how to do things. Most of them will find that coding skills are about as valuable as cursive handwriting." In order to encourage students to learn to think critically by learning computer science, I believe that producing qualified teachers play a major role in attracting the young generation to be involved in learning programming. 
	Also, learning computer science at a relatively young age will definitely help students in obtaining jobs in the future. Besides gaining the ability of thinking critically as mentioned earlier, the programming skills that students obtained from learning it will boost their future career. This is because in these days, most profession requires workers to have a little programming skill. Whether you work as an accountant, actuary, or engineer, most companies would prefer to hire someone who has some programming skills. Also, according to the U.S bureau of Labor Statistics3, there were about 913000 computer-programming jobs in the year 2010. That number is expected to increase by a staggering value of 30 percent from 2010 to 2020. Based on my interview with Professor <name> who works as a professor in Purdue University, I learnt that computer science only counts as an elective on high school level. Thus, the education ministry or government should make this course counted as a math or science course as I believe it is related to technologies and tough to learn it. 
	People may say that it is not necessary to learn computer science because there are many other career or jobs that are not related to computer science. They might be right, but the skills obtained from learning it, especially the cognitive process, will definitely give them an invaluable skill that can be applied in other fields. Some might also think that there are already too many subjects for students to take and it will definitely burden students even more if they are required to take this additional course. I do agree with them but I myself believe that learning the subject early will tell students about what computer science field is all about before they start choosing a field or subject to major in when preparing to go to college. Last but not least, opponents of my topic will say that money invested in the computer science field should be allocated to more important situations such as developing rural areas, helping the poor's and others. Though they may be right, it is definitely worth investing in computer science, as we would want the country to be competitive compared to others. The investment in the computer field might not have any impact in the economy in the short-run, but in the long-term, it will prepare more students to work in the computer technology field, which is expanding rapidly. 
	From my personal experience, my home country of Malaysia did not offer any computer science classes back in my high school years. Luckily, my older brother introduced the subject to me when I was still attending high school. After about a few months learning JAVA programming language, I managed to create a simple game, which was "Tic-Tac-Toe. With the sense of self-accomplishment and the admiration of my school friends for my creation quickly developed an interest in me to pursue more knowledge regarding computer programming. Thus, I believe that everyone should have an opportunity to try out or study computer science, which is a really interesting field. Perhaps with the involvement of the schools, government and the people, we can improve the education curriculum to attract more young students to study the subject. 
1 http://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=133577&org=NSF&from=news 
2 http://www.newsweek.com/2014/06/06/computer-programming-dying-art-252618.html 
3 http://readwrite.com/2013/05/31/programming-core-skill-21st-century 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
