Argumentative Essay (First Draft) 
April 11, 2016 
Psychology Regenerates People 
	Psychology is an amazing science that lies beyond every person that has ever existed in this world. People live in harmony because of psychology, they imagine, they see and they forecast thanks to psychology. Even though most of the people feel that it's a boring social class that is only worth to kill time Psychology is an amazing life class that extends people's perspective. It teaches how to live, how to see and how to believe. After learning Psychology people will have improved a bunch of skills. 
Psychology needs to be learned by everyone because it gives a new perspective we say but what kind of perspective does the psychology really grants us? What enables us to see the bigger picture? To answer a question like that I can tell a great example of history "Fan Zhonyan". According to the Fan Zhonyan story (Yang pg 1 - 10) Fan encounters many challenges and difficulties in his life. After a certain point he loses his joy to live and his ability to be happy. While his life seems unbearable he realizes the bigger picture. With his instincts he creates a psychologic approach and he finds the source and sorrow of the people. He decides to heal the world with what he sees and observes. Eventually he becomes a better person and his benevolence changes the people around him in a good way. Even though Fan Zhonyan didn't learned Psychology he acts like a true psychologist. Maybe on of the reasons he had to find out Psychological approach in a tougher way was the fact that Psychology didn't exist that years. Luckily we do have a chance to learn Psychology and heal the people around us. Making a positive difference in this world will make us happy and peaceful. Psychology not only heals people but also grants a new perspective. According to my interviews with a professional psychologist there were many other methods to understand human behavior and accordingly we have many opportunities to understand the person we are interested in. This is a great opportunity that needs to be exploited. Accessing inner persona (inner self) enables us to be closer to the other people. Psychology gives us passion because Psychology enables us to change human personality. According to the interview I had with one professional, with right techniques and right motivations we could be able to change any person's personality. Having a power like that is amazing and great. 
Even though Psychology seems unbeatable it has weaknesses. Sometimes Psychology leads to wrong decisions and wrong acts. For example, in order to understand human mind, the techniques sometimes can lead to wrong decisions. Consequently, we might act to the person in a different way that he or she wants to be treated. One of the other weaknesses that Psychology has is that it can change someone's personality. Politicians or other oppressive people can abuse this power and can be able to brainwash the people to vote for them. Psychology has seriously dangerous powers. Another problem with psychology is that sometimes it may lead to be cocky in front of the people. Since the people who took psychology can think that they know everything and anyone they see they might go forward and be cocky. These problems could lead to serious problems in society. 
Like everything in this world Psychology has medicines for it's own poisons. First of all, Psychology needs practice without practice like anything else in this world every method of Psychology would fail. Consequently, a person needs to practice fully in order to comment about other people. While Psychology has the power to change one's personality it can also teaches people how to protect their own unique responses. By teaching how to avoid corruptions Psychology gives protection to people. People can act cocky but this is not because of Psychology. On the contrary Psychology teaches people to respect, observe and to be able to see the beauty in one. Like any other thing in the world everything has weaknesses but Psychology is different from others. It teaches how to protect yourself against the dangers and problems. 
Finally, Psychology is an amazing lifetime opportunity that everyone needs to exploit. It teaches great techniques and grants one a whole new perspective. It has weaknesses but also it teaches people to how to defend themselves against its own unique tricks. In order to be a kind and insightful person everyone needs to learn psychology. 
2 
