Argumentative Essay 
D j Vu Is Possibly Caused by Our Daily Dreams 
D j vu is a strange but fantastic phenomenon that happens to everyone: people will feel so familiar with the situation around them that they have to believe they have already been in that environment before. There are a lot of hypothesis of the principle of d j vu telling about how people would get the feeling even if they have not really experienced the events, and all of them sound scientific and convincing. However, the feelings are so strong that most of people still can't accept the theories and believe that they must have been in that situation some way. Since it is easy to check that they actually have never experienced the situation, many people would blame the puzzle to dreams. So, in my opinion, among the hypothesis of the principles of d j vu, the predictivity of dreams is possibly the cause, since the properties of dreams make it possible and there are undoubtable truths that dreams do predict the future. 
First of all, the properties of dreams make the idea that d j vu is caused by dreams valid. When we are having d j vu, we feel that the situation must be something that we not only already experienced but, also, already forgot, and then reminded by d j vu. So, if the part of our dreams wants to d j vu us, it should first be forgotten. In Diana L. Walcutt, Ph.D's article, he suggested that the brain activities of sleeping people are forming a cycle: from stage 1, the superficial sleeping, to stage 5 and stage REM, the deep sleeping, and then back to stage 2 and follow the cycle. The article claims that, according to the brain activity, only in the stage REM people is dreaming, and if people can remember their dreams, they are probably awake in the stage REM. So according to the article, since people can only remember the dream in the closest stage REM and there is a cycle that repeats REM lots of times, there should be a vast amount of dreams that people totally not remember when they wake up. So, that property suggests that it is definitely possible that part of the dream is reminded by d j vu even if people never remember it after waking up. 
Also there are a lot of well-known events showing us dreams do predict future in some ways. The essay titled "Precognitive dreams" by Rebecca Turner shows a lot of true evens of precognitive dreams: dreams have predicted the sinking of Titanic, the death of Mark Twain's brother, and even the death of President Lincoln. In fact, precognitive dream is even happening for each people. In my interview, the mentor of Chinese brain forum, Biology Ph.D, <name> told me that since there is no scientific explanation of precognitive dreams, most of scientists have to hold that precognitive dreams are just coincidences because people dream every night so it is possible that one day the person's dream may coincidently match what happened in the next few days. However, the idea of scientists is mostly because of the preciseness of science, and the frequency of precognitive dreams and the closeness between dreams and reality are enough to prove the predictivity of dreams. So the examples of precognitive dreams can convincingly suggest that dreams have the ability to predict the future. So, since there are big parts of dream that we can't remember clearly, and the dreams are able to predict the future, if the part of dream precisely predicts the future, the d j vu will happen. The inference is now both soundly and validly. 
Admittedly, there are many other theories about the principle of d j vu, which all sound much more scientific. The article "The Neuroscience of D j Vu, D j vu: brain tricks, or predicting the future?" by Jordan Gaines Lewis tells the most famous and widely believed one: when people feel d j vu, their brains are mistakenly storing the current memory into the part that should be used to store the past memory, so the current events are felt like something in the past. This theory is a more scientific explanation and recognized by most of people. However, in my interview with <name> , he suggested that this theory is still only a hypothesis, because the theory is hard to be tested. He said, although it is possible to test the theory if someone can pay enough time and have enough volunteer to do the observation, there is no one have done this experiment yet. So since the hypothesis has not been observed, it is still not the authorized explanation. 
So, dreams' property makes it possible to let some forgotten dreams be reminded in d j vu, and the facts show that dreams do have the ability to predict the future. Also, even the most recognized explanation of d j vu is just a hypothesis and hasn't been authorize. The predictivity of dream is possible to be the really principle of d j vu, not only because it can cause d j vu soundly and validly, but also there is no authority that can refuse the idea. 
Work Cited 
Walcutt, Diana. Ph.D, Stages of Sleep, 10 Jun. 2009. Web. 30 Jan. 2013. <http://psychcentral.com/lib/stages-of-sleep/> 
Rebecca Turner. Precognitive Dreams, 17 July. 2013. Web. 15 Oct. 2014 <http://www.world-of-lucid-dreaming.com/precognitive-dreams.html> 
Jordan Gaines Lewis. D j vu: brain tricks, or predicting the future? The Neuroscience of D j vu, 14 Aug. 2012. Web. 25 Mar. 2013. <https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/brain-babble/201208/the-neuroscience-d-j-vu> 
