Yi Gu (Ivan) 
11/29/2015 
The importance of facial expression and the future use 
For most people, facial expression is very distant and fancy. Usually it appears in detective novels or TV series instead of our real life. However, it is a very important part of our life and it deserves more attention. A facial expression is one or more motions or positions of the muscles beneath the skin of the face. According to one set of controversial theories, these movements convey the emotional state of an individual to observers. Facial expressions are a form of nonverbal communication. They are a primary means of conveying social information between humans, but they also occur in most other mammals and some other animal species. ( Alan J. Fridlund ,1994) 
Facial expression is probably the earliest form of communication between different people, before written or spoken language, we tend to use facial expressions to express our emotions. People used to be very good at reading facial expressions because people have to read facial expressions because facial expression is 'language' at long time ago. If someone in long time ago meet an animal in the jungle, he would immediately would express fear in his face to let people around know that there's danger. Right now because of the development of technology and other ways of communicating or different types of languages' emergence. Recognizing facial expressions still plays a very crucial role but people don't have that kind of skill as they did before. 
If we talk about the professional field of reading facial expression, the Facial Action Coding System FACS: 4 is a human-observe based system which is designed to detect subtle changes in facial features and capturing the subtlety of human facial expressions. Those trained observers can manually use that system to view videotaped facial behavior in slow motion and by referring to a code of action units to determine a individual or combined motions to detect the facial expressions. FACS is made up of of 44 action units, thirty of them are based on the anatomically structure of human's face muscles. And the rest of these 14 units are still unknown structures or could be the combination of different types of action of our muscles. Many action units may be specified as symmetrical or asymmetrical which means it's parallel to each side of our face. Although those specific combinations of FACS action units represent patterned or fixed expressions of emotion, emotion-specified expressions are not part of FACS, they are defined as different and separate systems, such as EMFACS [8]. FACS itself is just a code of different type of actions in the face. Only throughout converting FACS codes into EMFACS or other systems, face images could be coded for different types of emotions such as joy or anger as well as many other types of positive or negative emotions. ( Kanade et al. 2) 
And facial expression is very useful in our real life. We all know that the agents of FBI and even some police officers are trained to learn a little basic facial expression to help detect the criminals and potential threats. Although it might not be as accurate in the TV series, it's still very helpful. Also I have interviewed Dr. <name> who is an assistant professor in Consumer Science and the Director of <name> at Purdue University. Dr. <name> field of research is using the facial expression on sales. By using facial expression analysis and behavior training to tell you what the world see on your face and give you feedback. After the analysis, a businessman can intentionally train himself to behave what you need to show the world which could be pretty important in sale. This is a very important usage of facial expression for now since facial expression recognition is not mature enough to be used on the very high-demanding fields. Dr. <name> also made an imagination of another branch of facial recognition. One day, once you walked into Mc Donald's and your order has already been placed since the camera recorded your face and what you always order. That use of facial recognition makes amazing things. Also facial recognition could also be used as people's identity because it's more accurate than fingerprints. In some extreme conditions, fingerprints can be forged but the figure of people's face are constant. It's pretty exciting that people's face can be used as our signature. These are very promising fields that facial expression could be used to serve people even our whole society. 
Also recently, Microsoft's emotion-reading tool is available to developers in beta now. The company's Project Oxford artificial intelligence team has concocted emotion-reading technology that uses knowledge of facial expressions to identify specific human feelings conveyed in photos. The tool was on display at Microsoft's Future Decoded event here Wednesday, and it has been released in beta to developers. It trains computers to recognize eight core emotional states: anger, contempt, fear, disgust, happiness, neutral, sadness and surprise. Although right now it can only be used for entertainment, if we develop it properly, it might be very useful.( Collins, 2015) 
Although the recognition facial expression itself is benign and useful, it could be used by people with bad intentions. There could be possible bad consequence because of the recognition of facial expressions like gamblers or conman. But there's always bad people and bad intentions. Con artists have existed for more than thousands of years, that doesn't make the reason we should stop exploring facial expressions because it's always very important and it's the nature of humans. We can not stop our pace of exploring facial expressions just because of the possible abuse of facial expressions. However, it's still very important to control who can get command of the knowledge of facial expression and when to use it. Otherwise there will be ethical debates. 
In conclusion, it's really important to develop our knowledge of facial expression and try to find the use in the future, because we cannot stop exploring our true nature. We need more than ever to teach people what different types of faces mean. Children used to naturally learn facial expressions when playing in the school, but with more and more structural schools are becoming, knowing facial expression is more important. It's part of the development of our EQ, knowing others' feeling and make people feel better is always crucial in whatever situations. Another branch is on lie detection, predicting human behaviors. If we have enough database and evidence to build a system to predict people's next move, we can stop criminals like some episodes in the movies. The episode in the movie or in the TV series could become the reality because your face will betray you and the facial expression never goes wrong. 
Reference 
Alan J. Fridlund (1994). Human facial expression (1 ed.). San Diego: Academic Press. 
Katie Collins. Surprised? 'Yeah, Microsoft's tech knows that's how you felt' . November 11, 2015 
