The Chinese student adaption to America life 
With the development of Chinese economics, an increasing number of Chinese international students appear in American universities. However, coming to America does not represent a student can live a qualified life and study well in America. Actually most Chinese international students have the difficulty of adapting to American life. In this case, for the better adaptation, Chinese international students need to make great efforts for instance jumping out of the comport zone and finding a appropriate job. 
The fact that most Chinese students cannot Adapt to the America life does exsist due to two main reasons below. Firstly, Chinese culture leads to the characteristic of students to be shy and face-saving. They always reject to talk to strangers. Secondly, the weakness in English aggravates the situation. Chinese English teaching model results in the poor vocabulary and the influenced oral speaking skill of Chinese international students. With these issues, they are afraid of talking to American native classmates because they probably made mistakes in talking. Adaptation to America lifestyle is really a big challenge and this problem is severe because its negative effects. A research did by a yale university study group showed the result that among 130 Chinese international students who have been surveyed, 45% of students had depression symptoms and 29% of them are related to anxiety symptoms (). In the long term, the lasting depression and anxiety could cause the mental illness, which means the difficulty in adaption could impact the psychological development of teenagers who study in America and even make the irreversible influence to their whole life. 
In light of the current situation of Chinese international students, great efforts and large progress are needed. A better way to shorten the time international students need to adapt to America life is working on campus. Working on campus provides international students a great chance to communicate with other native speaker because their colleges are likely American students. What's more, working can help international students better understand the American way of thinking and working. In working, sometimes Chinese students are pushed to socialize and actively participate in the host culture. The research shows the less degree of depression when a student has more contact and communication with Americans around you because when you talk to them and try to understand them, the unfamiliar people becomes friendly and the unfamiliar environment becomes familiar. 
However a small part of people owning the opposite view that it's unnecessary for Chinese international students to worry so much and make large efforts. They consider Chinese students can only play and work with Chinese students and they can form a group that every Chinese feel comfortable in this zone. Actually it is an unrealistic idea because a Chinese student can never avoiding contact to Americans even though there are thousands of Chinese around him or her. Their professor is a American, the group mates distributed by TA are Americans, drivers of school bus and even the sellers of a bookstore are Americans. In u.s, American guys are the main steam and communication and interaction with them are parts of life. a person who stay in the comfort zone cannot make progress and get success. The time a person feel difficult and challenged is also the time a person can learn and grow. Also some people consider doing a part time job can influence the study. Actually, many students get a good grade while working on campus. As long as you schedule your time reasonably, there is no confliction between studying and a part time job. 
The problem that most Chinese international students cannot adapt to America life does exist and cannot be ignored. Further, Chinese international students can better accommodate in American environment when there is more communication and interaction between international students and domestic students. The final goal for international students is blend in the native life and society, which cannot success without several years of efforts. Every Chinese international student must experience this challenge and change if he or she wants to stay in America and live well. So a lot of works still need to be done for them. 
