P5D3 
Apr.18th 
Why Nuclear Battery Will Change the World 
	Over the past decades, human technology has been growing exponentially in nearly every aspect. Currently researchers are more interested in artificial intelligence or augmented reality, and nuclear battery is not catching much attention. Some believe that nuclear battery will be harmful to the environment; some are pessimistic about whether nuclear battery is technically possible, but the majority are not aware of how important it is. On the opposite, in my opinion, nuclear battery is not only important, as a solution to large amount of technical problems, nuclear battery will change the world in the near future. 
I am going to explain the importance of nuclear battery with some examples. There is a curious fact that with the smartphones being more advanced, we are losing rather than gaining, the convenience of recharging. People need to recharge their cellphones 3 or 4 times more frequently today than in 2006. This is because the speed at which battery is developing cannot catch up the demand. In fact, people are able to make very fast CPUs today, but those CPUs can hardly be applied to smartphones or laptops. An important reason is that a faster CPU also consumes more power, thus shortens the standby time. As recharging has already become a frequent need, shorten the standby time even more is not what we want. Thus, battery has become a bottleneck in the development of cell phones. Another example is electric transportation. Although some electric cars perform just like patrol vehicles, their short cruise mileages and long recharging times keep thousands of customs away. Electric cars are also limited by battery. That is not all. Drones, smart glasses and robots, virtually everything is deeply limited by battery. Bucket effect refers to the fact that the overall performance of an integrated product is limited by its weakest part. Noticed or not, our life is literally limited by battery. Increasing the energy efficiencies of devices is a way to overcome these limitations temporarily, but as devices become more advanced and thus more energy consuming, battery bottlenecks would appear again. On the other hand, a revolutionary battery technology can solve all these the problems once and forever, that is why it will change the world. 
In search of a revolutionary battery, we have basically no choice but nuclear battery. That is because so far nuclear fuels are known as the most energy-concentrated materials in the universe. To be intuitive, one gram of Thorium yields energy of 7500 gallons of gasoline ("Truth Theory", 2014), allowing a car to travel for about 10 years, or an i Phone 6 to run for 100,000 years, which is much longer than human history. Other types of battery just CANNOT contain more energy than a nuclear battery does, in physical meaning. It's true that among all types of batteries graphene battery is catching more attentions currently, but nuclear battery will be more competitive in the long run. Graphene battery can be recharged very fast but it needs to be recharged frequently just as any other types of battery. Sometimes even a one-minute recharge brings trouble, for example when applied to air/space transportations. 
Some people may question whether the idea of nuclear battery is possible, as it is very different from the batteries we use today. They forget that we have been successfully applying nuclear batteries to satellites and pacemakers for half a century and that our technology is developing so fast that a conceptual idea can be achieved at any time. On the other hand, lots of successful experiments have been conducted in this field recently, and our nuclear battery has been much more sophisticated, powerful and efficiency than 50 years ago ("A review of nuclear batteries", 2014). Researchers have solved many problems that were once considered extremely hard to solve, such as utilizing beta emission of an isotope without damaging the electrode material ("Plasmon-assisted radiolytic energy conversion in aqueous solutions", 2014). Thanks to those researches, people are having deeper understanding of battery science. There is a benign cycle between experiment and theory. Although today nuclear battery is still far away from our life, I believe people will be able to find solution to all the technical challenges in the near future, since nuclear battery is theoretically possible, and is becoming more mature. 
When talking about nuclear under any circumstance, safety is always a major concern. Many people regard nuclear energy as a double-edged sword, it brings power but at the same time also brings harmful radiation and horrible leak accidents. The fact, however, is right the opposite. The catastrophic consequences of leak accidents fool the public as if nuclear energy is always that terrible. Just like people are usually more anxious when taking an airplane than traveling on a highway despite that they are statistically more possible to die under the latter situation, it is human nature to value the consequence more important than the probability of consequence. Actually, even when taking all the most terrible leak accidents into account, nuclear energy is so far the safest energy in the world (deaths/MW*h). It is safer than solar energy and even wind energy. It is basically a single-edged sword. The leak accidents have once forced several governments to put limit on nuclear energy, but most of them have been aware of the actual safeness of nuclear energy recently and are re-enabling it ("Nuclear energy policy by country", 2014-2016). 
In conclusion, I believe that nuclear battery will not be dangerous as someone believes. It is also a possible technology; researchers should not be afraid of the seeming hardness of achieving it. With the help of nuclear battery, a large number of technologies that was once limited by battery capacity can be made possible. That is why I think nuclear battery will change the world in the near future. 
