Mobile Game Explosion 
My usually poor gaming experience and the flowing of negative mood about the gaming future in gaming videos have led me to question whether the traditional games market, which made up with consoles gaming market and personal computer games market, is going downhill. After having an enjoyable interview with an expert in the field of personal computer games and a research on Internet on my own, I came up with a solid position on the question I started. Traditional games have been depleted its energy in attracting players, and its leading position in entertainment will be taken over by mobile games. The statistic data and comparison will be present in order to support the position. 
	Statistically, mobile games show their unlimited potential aptitude of profit producing, gaining huge attention from world famous companies (Wingfield 2012). As a new industry, mobile games has an incredible growing speed in sale volume. The managing director of game investigation bank, Digi-Capital, predicted that the sale volume of mobile games will achieve an increase of 23.6% annually through 2011 till 2017, while the increasing speed of traditional gaming market remains as 10.1% per year(Wingfield 2012). Having such a big difference in potential, mobile games easily draws attention of big companies from traditional gaming to its own. An article on New York Times shows that one of the biggest telecommunications provider in Japan, Soft- Bank, decided to acquire half of the stake, of a mobile games company by paying 1. 5 billion dollars (Pfanner, 2013). Even though the mobile games company is quite small in size and new, I believe this decision is still reasonable since this mobile games company owns two wild spread mobile games, which make a net income of 350 thousand per day on Apple store. Besides Soft-Bank, there are many other companies showing interest in mobile games, including famous companies in Japan, like Sega and, - Nintendo, and companies in America such as Electronic Arts and Microsoft. The amount of money and energy of a company are fixed, paying more attention on mobile games will surely decrease the attention which used to put in traditional games. There is a clear tendency of shifting to mobile games from traditional gaming among the top companies. 
	Mobile games do not only produce huge profit for big companies but also understand the public needs. I believe the reason why mobile games are a better fit for now is that mobile games are cheaper to players, and they require less time at each time playing. It is obvious that mobile games are cheaper to the players than either PC games (personal computer games) or consoler games. Generally, the device requirement for mobile games are just a smart phone, which is widely seen around us, and the cost for the game is usually less than ten dollars; however, pc games are usually above twenty just for the games, not including the computer. People with opposite opinions would say that smartphones and computers are both widely spread, and the cost between pc games and mobile games is not huge. This is correct indeed, but traditional game includes both consoler gaming and pc gaming, and at the same time the consoler for consoler games is either widely used or cheap. 
	Besides the difference in cost, mobile games also have an advantage on having a shorter time requirement. A solo game (one-player-only games), either on computer or consoler, usually takes about 30 to 50 minutes for each single task, and multiplayer games for both computer games and consoler games require much longer time because people cannot leave their teammates easily, and also because multiplayer tasks are usually much harder than solo tasks. For those reasons, each time one player playing a solo game or multiplayer game, he or she has to have a chunk of time period for at least 30 minutes. In the same time, I find out that mobile games are less likely to have multiplayer games and require a time of one round in more than 10 minutes, and also you can go back to home page and leave the game at backstage whenever you need to. 
The games on smartphone are also usually much smaller in data size with lower quality of games screen, thus consuming less internal storage of the smartphone. It is true that computer games can also leave to the backstage, but the overall performance of the computer will be deducted (Feijoo, Gomez-Barroso, Aguado, & Ramos, 2012). Games on pc often take up to 50% of the CPU and lots of memory. High percent of CPU using will cause high temperature in pc and lead to perpetual damage to pc. Working on others applications with a game at backstage might be available to the expensive and more advanced computers, but there is no way to carry such a computer around like a smartphone. 
	 Mobile games will increasingly gain its popularity in the next few years or even decades. Because the total amount of attention from public is approximately fixed, traditional games will facing theirs winter soon. Mobile games are surely cheaper, cost less time, and more easily to play with. Traditional games can barely overturn this circumstance, but they can avoid competing with mobile games at those fields where it is much harder for traditional games to improve, and developing in other sections for instance harder game experience which requires more button on key board need be used, and better sight in games. 
