December 11, 2015. 
Argumentative Essay Draft 3 
Jewish Financial Success in Twentieth Century America 
Introduction 
	Jewish conspicuous achievements are frequently attributed to the statement, usually in an anti-Semitic tone, that Jews are the Chosen People of God. Not only does it induces discomfort among both Jews and Gentiles, most Judaic theologians would suggest that the conferment of such "divine favor" is vastly misinterpreted. Regardless whether such peculiarity was the works of a supreme entity, Jewish economic success could be explained through analytical reasoning: Jewish history, culture, and religious teachings formed a cultural capital that fostered financial literacy among Jews during the mass immigration in early twentieth century America. 1 Jewish cultural capital incorporated with the existing American capitalist economy, therefore, catalyzed financial success of American Jews as a whole. 
	Additionally, the American capitalist setting was necessary for the burgeoning of Jewish prominence that was neither attainable in the past, nor in later Israel as capitalism facilitates social mobility in the most efficient manner, complemented by the American political and social landscape constituted of individual freedom and rights that ensured equal opportunities to all. 2 
Religious implications upon individual and corporate values 
	As values we possessed determine our attitude towards a particular subject and subsequently affects our behavior that generates various consequences which either affirm or refute our initial values. In the context of American Jews, Judaic doctrines possessed attributes that contribute to the instillation of individual values favorable in a capitalist economy. In general, all religious creeds disdain monetary obsession as it deters an individual from higher spiritual attainment. 3 Constructed on such beliefs, most people are quick to convict the affluent for depriving the needy, partly due to a zero-sum economic fallacy, though mostly instigated through jealousy. 
	Instead of simply equating asset accumulation to monetary obsession, Talmudic teachings went a step further to provide alternative interpretations on the subject of business and wealth that would eventually engender favorable attitudes towards capital accumulation. From a Judaic perspective as Tamari noted in The Challenge of Wealth: Jewish Business Ethics, the observance of God's Commandments leads not to eternal blessings of the afterlife, but to an abundance of worldly wealth while there is no virtue in poverty and disasters are punishments of divine anger (48). Since all Jews are obligated to study the Torah, most Jews ruled that one should devote his time unto learning, laboring and resting with equal proportions (47). Also, Friedman proposed in What Is the Ideal Occupation? The Talmudic Perspective that the occupational proclivity was partly due to religious needs, as mentioned in Talmudic texts, that encouraged occupations in businesses as they were more lucrative, pleasant and allow more time for spiritual devotion than agriculture (10-13). Ergo, when one is liberated from the constant distraction of a dire lack of physical needs, he or she is able to devote more time unto learning and spiritual development that in turn diminishes immorality and reaps divine favor. Theoretically, the result would be an upward spiral of spiritual and physical affluence. 
	Unfortunately, one of the greatest arguments against capitalism lies in the unjustifiable inequalities of wealth and its embodiment of greed which seemed to contradict the importance and obligation of Tzedakah in Jewish Law, which demonstrated greater resemblance to socialism. That said, Lifshitz whose work, Foundations of a Jewish Economic Theory, proposed that the relationship between Judaism and socialism were wrongly identified as the socialist utopian to achieve economic equality was foreign to Judaic doctrines. Lifshitz observed that socialists commonly justify for economic equality by stating the importance of charitable giving. However, it was supposed to be an expression of righteousness instead of a call for the restructuring of society in the interests of the poor. Judaism advocates for the uniqueness and abilities of humans to create, which is an expression of dominion among all creation in portray of God's image, rewarded with worldly wealth for actualizing the hidden potential of God's creation. According to the Judaic approach to property, economic equality is not only impossible, but even undesirable for it denies the uniqueness of each individual. Wealth disparity, a priori is not of moral corruption but evidence of individual abilities (34-58). Abnegation resolves neither wealth disparity nor the greed and insecurity of human nature that instigate immorality. Instead, through wisdom and understanding, one could leverage the potential of wealth to attain both spiritual and physical affluence. 
History and social marginality as a catalyst to the cultivation of collective behavior 
	Jews were often the marginalized minority throughout history and were constantly on the verge of eviction due to conflicting religious beliefs, ethnic exclusion in later history, and ultimately their threatening economic conspicuity, despite their specialized economic competencies being the greatest reason that had enabled them to reside in various countries. Constructed on existing values, environmental coercion led to the gradual embodiment of a capitalist spirit among Jews. In a dynamic capitalist economy, it is more than just staying in the right industry at the right time, but is also about knowing when to leave declining parts of the economy. And the Jews knew exactly the right thing to do. 
	Since ancient times, Jews were known for their involvement in trading and money lending, an occupation which was immensely detested, where usury was regarded as an abomination4 and was condemned by Greek philosophers for deriving profits without physical labor due to failure in recognizing the role of knowledge and risk evaluation (Muller). Yet, Jews had strived in the profession where such proclivity was perfectly illustrated during the Romanov Dynasty. Muller explained that an increased in trading volume due to harvest surplus accompanied by the lack of capital induced an escalated demand for credit. Hence, Jews were pardoned from such mandate in order to facilitate business transactions in most of European Christendom. 
	Furthermore, Jews were deprived of agricultural occupations due to forbiddance in land occupancy at that period of time and were denied admittance into artisan guilds that were religiously exclusive. Lederhendler indicated that Jews were creatures of habitat instead of habits. As a result, Jewish economic success in America was partly attributed to the social and economic conditions they encountered in America (qtd. in Shapiro 518; Muller). Muller mentioned that Jews had demonstrated a propensity for discovering virgin markets and were more willing to move on as new opportunities arose considering that they lack a craft tradition. 
