Modern Physics Research and Public Opinion 
Abstract 
The following paper discusses problem of negative public opinion of modern physics. A strong negation of research continue and fear of new discoveries may lead to stop intermittence of the progress, so more care has to be taken on what people think about this science. The paper analyzes mass media problems in elimination of scientific discoveries, as it has greatest influence on public opinion. In addition, the article investigates groups of people who are more likely to share negative point of view in order to find particular ways to change their opinion. Psychology, religion, and education level are the main criteria to determine these groups. 
Modern Physics Research and Public Opinion 
In my opinion, more care has to be taken on what public thinks about physics, as this science opens a door to the world of the future. All new technologies, which have improved our lives so significantly, are impossible without discoveries in science. Although some groups of people, even those who follow a modern lifestyle, think negatively about physics and feel afraid of new discoveries. It is vital to continue the research, as humanity still has not investigated the world completely and solved all technical problems. People's disagreement with this point of view may lead to negative consequences for civilization, because it will stop to develop. 
In this paper, I analyze the influence of mass media on public opinion, possible ways to stop irrational fears and the groups of people who are more likely to have a negative point of view. On one hand, people might be conservative because of some psychological reasons, like religion or fear of the unknown. On the other, mass media has a great influence on public opinion and serves as a primary source of scientific information for most people. Additionally, it is important to remember people's scientific education level that influences their attitude towards science (Evans & Durant, 1995). We should find special ways to influence the opinion of the each particular group. 
Mass-media coverage of science 
One of the most important areas where more attention is needed is in mass media and popular publications. As stated by <name>, <position>, (personal communication, October 22, 2015), "some editions do a particularly good job in reporting scientific discoveries." Some TV shows and magazines represent not only high-quality scientific information, but also do that in a way that is interesting for the public. The problem is that these sources are not very popular among people. Talking about other articles, a survey shows that, in opinion of scientists, journalists do not understand material well and do not work enough on its communication, because they serve the purpose of sensational representation (Hartz & Chappell, 1997). A low quality of these main sources influence people's opinion and makes them feel afraid about new discoveries. 
Journalists change truth trying to make materials more interesting. I want to give an example of my personal negative experience with local TV channel in Russia. They made a short story for evening news about a new unique and very expensive microscope in my high school. Two hours of serious interviews with a professor, teachers, and the best students were combined into a five-minute video, which presented us as children who got a new toy. The teachers commented that the Russian media usually simplified scientific achievements in a similar way. In more important situation, as representation of new discovery, this method is completely unacceptable. 
Additionally to fabrication of facts, lack of knowledge and absence of review by scientists lead to articles that exaggerate the danger of physics. For example, Krupp (2009) says in his article about the Doomsday 12/21/2012: "Most of what's claimed for 2012 relies on wishful thinking, wild pseudoscientific folly, ignorance of astronomy, and a level of paranoia worthy of Night of the Living Dead." Because of significance of these problems, more attention has to be given to quality of popular articles. Journalists should understand the subject better and collaborate with scientists to make reviews of their articles. 
Religious reasons 
Another possible reason that makes people think negatively about scientific progress and physics is religion. Prof. <name> claimed that, "We are the only species who asks the question 'Why?'" (personal communication, October 22, 2015). Humanity always has been curious about everything around them. Ancient people looked in the sky and wondered, what stars and the sun are, why they follow certain paths. They asked, what influences harvest, who created this world, what is the purpose of life. The professor said that in the past religion gave answers to all these questions, so now people are accustomed to them (personal communication, October 22, 2015). They do not want to listen to new explanations given by science. To change opinion of this group of people, one has to find a special way. For religious people opinion of important person has the greatest value, so if religious authorities understand value of science, they might influence usual people. For example, the Bishop of Rome Francis "is starting to build a bridge between science and religion on the traditional wedge issue of climate change." (Baer, 2015). Religious people are the big part of population, so their opinion should not be forgotten. 
Scientific education and funding 
The funding of research projects directly depends on public opinion. According to Prof. <name> (personal communication, October 22, 2015), the government approves funding for projects that are relevant for the public. They use people's opinion and general predictions as main criteria for resource allocation Projects with the most popularity, like Mars expedition or a cure for cancer, get the most funding. Thus, future of physics research is directly connected to people's opinion. That proves importance of taking care of it. 
The research results analyzed by Evans and Durant (1995) show that scientific knowledge makes people's opinion more consistent and less manipulated by form of information representation. From over 2000 responders, ones who know more about the science think more positively about it. However, they also choose to support useful and general scientific projects instead of non-useful or morally contentious research. At the same time, less knowledgeable responders were less consistent in their choices, even if they are generally positive. Thus, better scientific education of people may lead to right directions of future research, as public will understand its needs. 
The reality of the danger 
Scientists and journalists have to do more to explain to the public that research is not dangerous. At least in Russia, the most of population is still afraid of it. Although modern now safety control level is very high, people might not know that. Additionally, the public may be afraid of big research centers, as Large Hadron Collider or laboratories with nuclear reactors, because they do not fully understand what happens inside of them. We need more news on this topic. For example, article by Johnson and Baram (2014, February 10) shows awareness of possible risks. Because update of Brookhaven National Laboratory's Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider ("RHIC") may lead to dangerous consequences that are connected to high-energy research, a special government commission will analyze all possible risks before project start. 
The danger of all modern physics research is not comparable with risks for humans in biological research. The spread of viruses or bacteria because of an accident in a lab will be catastrophic. Additionally, Penzenstadler and Young (2015) write that the US biolabs do not provide enough information about safety rules violation and technical accidents to the government. Some of them even conduct research without approval and permission. This example emphasizes that physics is not as dangerous as people think it is. 
Positive propaganda? 
An important point is not to go too far in creation of positive opinion. One particular example is propaganda of idea of "atoms for peace" in the Soviet Union. From initially military research, scientists and propaganda started an idea of peaceful use of nuclear energy. They claimed its benefits as fuel of the future, cheap, clean, and totally safe. All these legends were destroyed with the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl. By the opinion of Josephson (2000), "The tongue-in-cheek slogan symbolizing this disaster, 'Chernobyl-the peaceful atom in every home,' became the essence of the Red Atom." (p.5). Additionally, they did not overcome problem of dangerous radioactive waste. 
One may ask, if there was no totalistic emphasizing of only positive points and opposite point of view was allowed, would this catastrophe happen? However, in my paper I said mostly about objective representation of truth, which appears to be positive, and better scientific education of people. In my opinion, solution of these problems in future also prevents not only from over-negative reaction, but also from too positive consideration of the research. Research has to be presented not in positive, but in accurate way. 
Conclusion 
To sum up, fear of unknown and religious reasons with improper work of mass media sources form the negative thoughts about physics. It is time to take care about people's point of view and form opinion that is more positive. The best solutions for this problem are to review scientific articles in public sources, to conduct special work with particular groups, like religious people, and to raise the level of people's understanding of science. Another important point is to continue improvement of safety control in research centers with analysis of conducting research consequences. Work on this problem today will lead to the faster scientific progress and hence to the better future. 
