Introduction: Decline in undergraduate employment, decrease in entry level salary and recession in the number of self-employed, China faces a severe talent crisis. Many people blame that the Chinese National College Entrance Examination, also known as Gaokao, should be responsible for current situation. Thus, the huge reform in the Gaokao test aimed to optimize the talent structures and provide talents with unique pathways. Specifically, the society encourages students to be well-developed, to be specialized in science subjects or to be technicians. To precisely select those three types of talent through the Gaokao test, I have three proposals: 1) Eliminate Science and Arts tests segregation. 2) Set up advanced science subjects tests. 3) Separate the technician test from the traditional Gaokao test. 
Paragraph1: Combining the Science and Arts test will give students tastes of all kinds of knowledge and will encourage students to be comprehensively developed, with critical thinking from Arts and organized minds from Science. 
Paragraph2: To select the science talents and estimate their potential, we ought to set up the advanced placement tests in certain science subjects and set students' performance as additional but very important criteria in college admission process. 
Paragraph3: Setting up an alternative technical skill tests as the Gaokao test for technicians will largely encourage more students to engage in technical areas, for instance auto repair, professional operators, etc. 
Refutation: Some people may argue that high school is the place where students should have strong knowledge base in all subject rather than specialize in one. Nevertheless, the society favors people who know everything in a certain area rather than know only a little for every subjects. To avoid typical dilettante, we should encourage students to discover their interest and potential and decide their future path. However, the huge problem is that students do not have clear career plan during high school and they apply for college simply based on their test scores. To solve the issue, we'd better encourage high school to set up career plan classes to help students clearly define their goals. And the reform of the Gaokao test will better help them achieve their goal by providing the direct path to the destination. 
To sum up, combining the Science and Arts tests, establishing the science advanced tests, and providing technical test, will motivate students to think about their future and take the right way to pursue their dream. After four years learning in college, the talents will be well prepared with professional knowledge and job readiness. In turn, the society will greatly benefit from those talents who have their own strength in various territories. However, the way universities cultivate talents also should be altered, providing the right direction and necessary education that will instruct the potential talented people to eventually become talents and lead the development of society. 
