P5d3 
April 18th 
The Inevitable Failure of Privacy Protection 
	 The great idea of "connect one isolated computer to another" was formed in the last century when some of the PC companies were trying to develop a workstation system with higher communication efficiency. This idea has given birth to the Internet, which turns out to be a double-edged sword for our society. Social engineering is one of the common techniques that hackers use to complete intrusion. It has become a major threat to personal privacy. In general, I am pessimistic about the possibility that we could survive a customized social engineering attack. In the end, even an ordinary level hacker could get the information that he needs from us and there really isn't much we can do about this. To reduce potential loss from the attack, my suggestion is that we should use critical thinking skills and try to learn the basic knowledge of the Internet. 
	One of the reasons why we will inevitably fail to achieve privacy protection is that most of the people underestimate the possibility of the attack. During my interview with a computer science major teacher assistant, even the interviewee failed to aware how easy it is to apply basic social engineering techniques to an individual. One of my friends used to be a young hacker in China, he was only 14 years old when he joined one of the biggest Chinese hacker league. According to him, it is very common to apply social engineering attack even when he does not have a PC in hand. For example, he used to make excuses in order to insert a specially-made U-disk that can automatically download all the Word document from his teacher's laptop. It is not detectable because this action does not require any program to be run. He could easily cut down the WIFI network in a public place and capture all the confidential information going through the router using a smartphone. For example, once he was sitting in a public library and he saw a middle-aged male is doing stock trading in a chair not far from him. He firstly cut down the man's network and the man became anxious and restarted the computer so that it connect to the fake router he made up to capture information (he just did it for fun but he did get the password of the man's trading account ). He believes that is it impossible for normal individuals to protect themselves even from a low-privileged hacker like him, "Sometimes I am frightened by what I could do. I have several ways to get the information I want even if I don't have a laptop. Most people don't even realize when the actual crime is happening to them." 
	Beside the unimaginable power of the attacker themselves, the defensive system that individual can rely on is incredibly weak. Not like big companies, individuals can only obey the existing policy of internet, such as WIFI protected access 2 and Hyper Text Transfer Protocol. The problem is that all these widely used protective policies are somehow out of date and full of bugs. My hacker friend used to joke about the anti-virus software companies: "We write the code of a Trojan program in 20 hours, it shall be detected by anti-virus after 3 months." With the development of mobile internet and social networks, those vulnerable protective program and policies become even weaker as time goes by. 
	But many people would say that we could protect our privacy if we stop uploading our personal information to the server and start raising awareness of the issue. I have to admit that it was my expectation that we could protect ourselves using this kind of solution. However, it won't help much. The social engineering attack has a chain reaction on all your information. Once the attacker manages to break through one of the loopholes in your unprofessional self-defensive system, there is nothing much of you to do. The information won't protect themselves: once the hunter in the darkness found out the breaking point, they are like lambs to the slaughter. On the other hand, some people think that it is safer for people who is already being protected by a system, major threat to personal privacy. According to "Psychology: A Precious Security Tool", the author provided several feasible methods for large organizations such as companies to protect their highly confidential information, but he also emphasized that those methods work only under the circumstance that the company creates a security culture. Without a security culture deeply rooted in the gene of the organization, all the protective methods will be nothing but hindrances. 
	In conclusion, I believe the war against social engineering is a war that normal individual will never have the chance to win. In my opinion, new technologies such as consumer drone and the internet between things are only to make the situation even worse. My suggestion is to stop being addicted to social network and documenting ourselves, that would help reduce the possibilities of facing from such attacks. In short, we have to stay sharp and smart to fight against invisible enemies. 
