Lose weight, from the wrong way to the right path 
It is apparent that current people are getting more concern about their physical figures, which in turns brings up circumstance that many of them become obsessed with weight loss. A data shows that about 75% of people who have weight issues are applying the extremely wrong way to lose weight, such as dieting, fast, or single food diet. However, those people are not aware of the negative consequences of these approaches, which will cause the significant decrease of modern people's health. Undoubtedly, it is vital to remind people the suitable way to achieve the goal, which are working out frequently and eating scientifically. 
First to be mentioned is that unhealthy weight loss methods cause severe consequences towards human beings' physical statues as well as psychological conditions, since people intend to be both physically and emotionally sensitive when they are on a diet or applying other wrong ways to be slim. Belinda, who is my fitness coach, gave an outlook of the physical decrease that wrong weight loss approach brought to us. She noted that the limited calorie absorbed would lead to weak condition such as less energetic and even faint. More serious, life secure will be influenced. To be more specific, in the article called "How Crash Diets Harm Your Health" that is published on CNNHealth by Bryan Miller on 2010, it states that the rapid weight loss slows metabolism, leading the future weight gain and depriving the essential nutrients of the body. Even more, it will weaken the immune system and highly increase the risk of dehydration, heart palpitation or more serious diseases. As for the emotional effects, my and my aunt's experiences can fully demonstrated the idea. After I have lost 10 kilograms, my total attitude towards life had been changed to be no more passive. Meanwhile, I did not feel like studying or engaging in any other thing. All of those resulted me being on the hospital for nearly a mouth. And those days are the darkest day of my life so far. As a result, all of above shows that working on the unhealthy weight loss methods would damage people both physically and psychologically. Therefore, people should choose the right path in order to be fit. 
Besides, it is not difficult to follow the guild of healthy weight loss and, meanwhile, it brings plenty of advantages towards human beings. Combining both working out and eating is the only way to obtain the goal. For how to work out appropriately, the essay "The Absolute Beginner's Guide to Exercise" make a guideline about proper exercise to lose weight. To be more precisely, the author Dulce Zamora suggested some options to work out which include walking, dancing, gardening, biking, even doing household choices. Moreover, people should do at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activities. Also, he recommended people to do some stretch before or after exercising. Meanwhile, Belinda states that both aerobic and anaerobic exercise are important to develop body physical status. An ideal weight loss method should not only include exercise but also a proper eating habit, which means ones should healthy food which includes high protein food, such as egg white, and fish, and superior carbohydrate, such as oatmeal, whole grain bread and beans. After applying the above procedure, total status of your own will be improved. For example, the skin condition will enhance, attitude towards everything will be positive and optimistic and so many other advantages. In conclusion, being fitness can be as easy as you think, as least you attempt to do it. 
It is a common idea that working out to lose weight costs a large amount of time. As modern people always have the limited time to do exercise and prepare for everyday meal, it becomes difficult to follow the steps. And most of them want to get the effect quickly, they also do not have the desire to go fitness to do work out. Since it is true that working out to be slim need longer time than dieting, fast, the above concepts are all easy to understand. However, only time would tell the truth. After short period of time applying extreme diet without scientific methods, people just get the negative influence on them while letting the body be in an unhealthy condition. 
People want a satisfied body, which is a universally acknowledged. And a satisfied body does not only mean being slim but mean being healthy, being fit. So in this way, a scientific approach to lose weight should be applied by most people, which is to working out regularly and eating every meal properly. 
