P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
May 3, 2015 
The true effect of Gaokao 
Gaokao as a popular topic has been discussed for many years because of its importance. It is a college entrance examination of China, and it also seems to be one of the most significant events in students' lives. As turning points for millions of students, in today's society there are a number of debates about Gaokao. A lot of people have negative ideas about Gaokao due to its high-pressure, regional difference and long preparing time. Does Gaokao work for every student? Does Gaokao have actual effect for people for lifetime? Although Gaokao is referred to as the toughest exam in the world, Gaokao fits with Chinese situation greatly. However, I have the different view about Gaokao, Gaokao is practical and influential, and it has significant influence on student's life. What people see is how terrible the pressure of Gaokao could be, but I suggest that people should focus more on the effect of Gaokao for students' future. 
As one of the toughest tests in the world, Gaokao has long stoked conversations about its reliability. Actually, Gaokao has scientific reasonable design for the Chinese situation. This exam which is used to evaluate high school students has the authority to shape not only a nation's future, but the character and development of the children who take them. The students who would take this exam could be changed to tougher and more aspirants because they know there is a great and drastic competition. Also, this high-pressure examination gives our students chances to increase their abilities to crush resistance. Those personalities that Gaokao offered could be utilized in the future when those students come on the stage. Those students can have superior working efficiency and they can work under extreme pressure. 
The article "Are Your Kids Smart enough for China's Toughest Test?" introduced Gaokao using the view of a top student Tao jones who performed well in Gaokao and has deep understanding of Gaokao in China. Tao is a top student of his high school. In order to retain his grade stable, Tao have made great effort to study everyday. Tao have mentioned that if students did not pay enough attention and effort to study. They would be weeded out of competition. In fact, Gaokao have strict systems to preserve its fairness. For example, teachers who participate in designing Gaokao cannot leave education center which is far away from downtown until the end of Gaokao. And in the article, Tao had already got his grade of Gaokao which was outstanding. For this reason, we can feel the excitement of Tao. He stated that because he had this grade so that he could enter the best universities in China. That means that he could become a college student who top companies would pay attentions to. According to the article, Gaokao is a turning point for every student and it can change students' life tremendously. 
Before I compile the present paper, I already had a wonderful interview with a professor of <name> in <place>. Her name is <name> and she had worked in the department of education in my city. In addition, she has made a lot of contact with Admission Office of numerous universities. <name> told me a story about how Gaokao affect personal life during the interview. The protagonist of the story is called <name>. <name> told me that <name>'s family was so poor that they even can not support her to go to high school. In order to save this talented child's future, <name> used her own wage to support Huahua wang to attend school. Finally, <name> did not let <name> wasted her effort. <name> received the offer from <name> which is the top university in <place>. Huahua wang's life had changed tremendously. And now she settled in the big city and has a stable job in top internet company in <place>. After telling this story, she concluded that the knowledge of Gaokao could be forgotten, but the impact of Gaokao could be forever. 
There must be some argument that Gaokao will take Chinese students' happiness away and kills the creativity of students because students always use rote-learning to prepare for Gaokao. Also, the influence of Gaokao could be temporary because the student will get away from this pressure. Students will be lazy and lose their passion for study. However, what we have to understand is Gaokao was designed in order to fit with our domestic situation. Gaokao still is the fittest test in China because of the situations which have large amount of people and drastic competitions of country. What Gaokao could offer is not just a piece of paper that record wonderful score, but also student's future jobs opportunities. Gaokao honed students' tough mind and a brave heart in the harshest of all environments. Boring and repeated practice, gave students ability to let theirself work efficiently. Those influences of Gaokao could be life-long because it truly makes an impact on students' personalities and it could benefit students for a long time. 
In conclusion, sometime we cannot judge one thing in a single view. Although Gaokao is tough and time-consuming, its benefit still could be life-long and can change personal life tremendously. Gaokao gives students opportunities to choose their future life, and experiences the process of fighting for future career. Instead of changing the Gaokao system, students should pay greater attention to become well-rounded students. Gaokao exists in our world in different ways and it is practical and influential, and rare events can compare with Gaokao's influence. 
