Management Models in Chinese Family Firms 
It's very important to have a comprehensive understanding of management model before analyzing what is the best management model for the Chinese family firms. A management model is simply the set of choices made by executives on how the work of management gets done(Kim, 2010). For example, about how they define objectives, motivate effort, coordinate activities, and allocate resources. The concept of management model is very important for the firms when it comes to their sources of revenue, their cost structure, and their make-or-buy options. The concept of management model is very important for the firms when it comes to their sources of revenue, their cost structure, and their make-or-buy options. An enduring and hard to copy management model is the new form of competitive advantage that makes a company more valuable. Which means a more advanced management model is like a treasure to a company that makes it more competitive in the market. 
There are many people arguing about what management model is the Chinese family firms truly need. As the market becomes more competitive, surviving is the most urgently problem that tons of Chinese family firms are facing at. For example, in China, the macro-control system is not smooth as developed country, the economic policy for the small business is relatively unfair, and the legal safeguard system is also not advanced (Tang, 2010). Those factors make the Chinese family firms even harder to stay in the business field. In my opinion, a successful management model is the key factor weather a company can survive. In this paper, I will mainly discuss on what management model is best suit for the small and middle sized company in China. In my opinion, the Chinese family companies should mainly adopts the institutionalized management model and uses the family-oriented management model as the auxiliary. After I have done massive amount of research on this topic, this combination of management models is the right choice for the small business owners. 
There are many weakness if a company only use institutionalized management model. The institutionalized management model emphasizes that all employees should comply with all the rules and disciplines which bear the spirit of contract. Just as the law of the country, everyone must comply with it, and no trampling shall be allowed, including the relevant relatives. But in real life, in a family firms, manager can not treat his family members like other staffs. relatives always need some privileges because they are in your family and also the core member of the company. Like I mentioned before, only use institutionalized management model in family firm is impossible to success. 
In contrast, only use family management model is also hardly to success. Family management model is a commercial organization in which decision-making is influenced by multiple generations of a family-related by blood or marriage-who are closely identified with the firm through leadership or ownership. For example, when the company is proceeding the family-oriented management, it does not damage the company's management but pays more attention to the incentive mechanism. The company, on the premise of ensuring the other employees' satisfaction on the incentive mechanism, will take out a portion of the profits to motivate those relatives who have been working hard for a long time and won the trust of the company. Adopted in the phase of imperfect credit system and legal system of current China, the family-oriented management model is very effective, especially for the labor-intensive small and medium-sized companies without so complex management levels. But in other way, without institutionalized management model, some family may do whatever they want, and in that case, the management of the company is damaged by the relatives. So only use family management model is not an option. 
In my opinion, the combination of the family-oriented management model and institutionalized management model is the best choice for small and middle sized family firms in China. The company mainly adopts the institutionalized management mode and uses the family-oriented management mode as the auxiliary. After years of operation, the company will establish relatively standardized rules and regulations in various departments, and all these have been generally accepted and observed by the personnel from top to bottom. I think this kind of the model is a best suit for small family firms in China. In the interview report, my interviewee's company combined those two models and have a great success in the business field. That's also a reason why I believe one model is not enough for the company. 
After research the evidence above mentioned. It can safely conclude that the combination of the management models is the key part that weather a company success or not. Advocate the consciousness of responsibility in the company, and advocate the consciousness of honesty in the company. The enterprise abides by its commitments, fulfills its promises to the employees no matter how hard it is and never loses the employees' trust. Make efforts to build a learning oriented and innovative company. That is also a reflection of successful management model and the key factor to success for a small company. 
