P4d2 
March, 29, 2016 
VR technology Benefits Studying Process 
Data Analysis and Virtualization Technology (VR) is a new technology that is developing at an amazing speed nowadays. This technology works in a two - step procedure, which is to analyze data first and then use special program and devices to reproduce a virtual simulation of the original objects. VR technology is nowadays applied on not only to video games but also much more areas that are far beyond our imagination, like studying and training. Since this technology is widely being discussed, lots of opinions appears towards the development of VR. Some hold the opinions that VR technology will have a bright future while others insist that VR technology is not so useful and may do harms to human body. Personally, I strongly hold the opinion that the VR technology is helpful, especially fort its positive influence on study. 
VR technology significantly improves study efficiency. In my recent interview to Mr. <name> who is a staff researcher working at Purdue University <name of a lab> , Mr. <name> said that the <name of a lab> is dealing with some repair training projects which is required by some car companies. It's usually time-costing to teach students how to repair cars, since students need to actually operate on cars to get a better study experience. However, with the use of VR technology, real cars are no longer needed. Students are allowed to operate on a virtual car reproduction model to gain all the knowledge about car repairmen with the VR helmets on. Which obviously minimize the effort those training staff need to pay to rent all the cars and teach students one by one. What's more, since the teaching process is digital, which make it possible for students to watch and learn for more than one time, students usually will get better understandings of car repair. With lower cost and better result, the efficiency is greatly improved. 
VR technology also help keep the safety during study. As Mr. <name> said, like in the car repair training, traditionally students are taught with real cars, which has some potential danger during the training process. Students may get hurt easily when they are operating on the cars. Meanwhile, cars could also be damaged because of students 'inexperienced operating. However, with the use of Virtual Reality technology, students just need to operate on virtual cars (they function the same as real cars) with their VR helmets on. In this way, the safety of both students and cars are ensured. 
VR technology also makes people more interested in study. According to Abbott, Brian, Emmart, and Wyatt (2004), with the using of a virtual-reality program called Digital Universe Atlas, scientists are able to reproduce a 3-D model of universe that simulates the real universe. They declared that the simulated universe provides not only science field learners but actually everyone with a closer touch with the real universe. Even lots of young kids got interested in the universe after visiting the simulated universe and decided to learn more about universe. Also, Abbott and his fellows declared the digital universe makes people feel more connected to the universe, which will definitely give them more feeling of belongings. 
Admittedly, VR equipment are kind of costly nowadays, however, its influence on improving efficiency, keeping safety, attracting people worth much more than the price of those VR equipment. What's more, with the advancing technology, the price of materials that are needed to make VR equipment has been greatly lowered. Also, scientists are paying attention to make the price of VR equipment lower. Thus, personally I don't think the price will become a huge problem with those efforts. 
Above all, I strongly hold the opinion that the development of VR technology will benefits studying process. Since this technology is not totally mature yet, I think more tests on improving quality of VR technology's functions should be done on this technology and people should hold a more positive attitude towards the development of it. I believe that VR technology will have a bright future and will bring more benefits to the whole society. 
