Should People Trust Nuclear Energy 
Purdue University 
Should People Trust Nuclear Energy 
	In the twenty first century, the shortage of fossil fuel energy is becoming more and more serious and clear. People and scientists are seeking new energy resources to ensure people can continue living on this planet with sufficient energy. Nuclear energy is one of the most common and practical new energy that can produce enough electricity with reasonable occupation of land. But the past accident that happened in Chernobyl, Ukraine, Three Mile Island, and the most recent accident that happened in Fukushima made people wonder if they should trust nuclear energy; this have became one of the most controversial topics. People seem to be afraid of nuclear energy by the impacts of those three accidents. It is important to discuss if people should continue trusting nuclear energy, because we need sufficient amount of energy urgently, safely, and neatly. Based on my research, information support that the past accidents of nuclear energy were mainly caused by avoidable human mistakes from either operators' sides or designers' sides; moreover, the safety records could show that those issues could be minimized by more comprehensive training and better devices. 
	Due to the serious consequences of three recent nuclear energy accidents-the Chernobyl Nuclear accident in Ukraine, Three Mile Island nuclear Accident in US, and Fukushima Nuclear Accident in Japan, a lot people lost trust in the nuclear energy. 
	The earliest nuclear accident was at Three Mile in 1979, United States. This accident was caused by avoidable design defects and uncomprehensive training, and finally caused reactor melt down. According to WNA (2012) that "The operators were unable to diagnose or respond properly to the unplanned automatic shutdown of the reactor. Deficient control room instrumentation and inadequate emergency response training proved to be root causes of the accident (Three Mile Island Accident, 2012)" Based on WNA's report (2012) the accident was caused by the avoidable design failure that could not provide enough information to the controller, which was the inaccurate indication of the reactor's valve, and also the controllers' uncomprehensive training (Three Mile Island Accident, 2012). Therefore, the accident in the Tree Mile Island was caused by avoidable human mistakes, the accident could be circumvent without the designers' mistakes and the controllers' misunderstanding. WNA (2012) suggests that there were no injuries or death resulted in this accident, but people began to feel 'uncomfortable' with nuclear energy (Three Mile Island Accident, 2012). According to the United States Nuclear Commission (2013), the accident of Three Miles Nuclear Power plant affected the whole industry of nuclear energy, because people were scared and became not to trust nuclear energy. (Backgrounder on the Three Mile Island Accident, 2013) In order to ensure the safety and regain the trust from people, the United States Nuclear Commission issued numerous changes to ensure the safety of nuclear energy. According to United States Nuclear Commission (2013), the major changes were improving the design and equipment standard to ensure the isolations, clarifying the human responsibilities by strengthening training, improving the emergency preparations, and strengthening the regulations. (Backgrounder on the Three Mile Island Accident, 2013) 
	Chernobyl Nuclear accident, which happened in the year of 1986 at Chernobyl, Ukraine. Chernobyl accident had the most serious consequences ever, and gave people more fear over nuclear energy. The WNA (2015) suggests that this accident causes about 5% of radioactive reactor core, which is about 5200 PBq divulge into the air (Chernobyl Accident 1986, 2015). The WHO (2005) report shows that "A total of up to 4000 people could eventually die of radiation exposure from the Chernobyl nuclear power plant (NPP) accident nearly 20 years ago, an international team of more than 100 scientists has concluded (Chernobyl: the true scale of the accident, 2015)". The information of those two reports give us a view of how serious the consequences are. But the accident itself was not totally due to the nuclear reactor itself, the major trigger was human mistakes as well. The WNA (2015) report that the accident was triggered by two stuff that were not well-trained operate the reactor with defect that was not mentioned in operation procedures (Chernobyl Accident 1986, 2015). WNA also suggests that although the responsibility of decreasing the reactor's operating reactivity margin should be taken by the operators, but the designers should have considered the defect of reactors and emphasized the safety instruction in the procedures (Chernobyl Accident 1986, 2015). Those information all suggest that the accident was caused by avoidable human mistake; either from the operators' sides, or designers, sides. Due to the huge consequences that the accident caused, more people joined in to question if nuclear energy should be trusted. 
	 The Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan is the most recent nuclear accident in 2011. The WNA (2015) intestates that although the accident seems to be triggered by unavoidable natural disaster tsunami that disables the electricity of cooling system, but the serious consequences are actually caused by human error as well (Fukushima Accident, 2015). According to WNA (2015), the stuffs of the nuclear reactor operated a restimation of the sustainability of the nuclear reactor, which received a value higher than the designed value. Some reinforces were made to the nuclear reactor, but they were tested to be insufficient in the accident (Fukushima Accident, 2015). The more serious defect is that the regulation branch was not function individually with justice; the investigation finally discovered the omission of the regulation branch. From the report of WNA (2015), the nuclear reactor noticed that there are potential dangers might cause the electricity disable, however, the regulation branch did not supervise any reinforcements of the nuclear reactor; the regulation branch even told the operators that there is no need to reinforce it. The disabilities are caused by the lack of emergency operation experiences and an incomplete manual. Also, the culture of Japan made them not willing to question authorities and powerful side, and obey the authorities with no principles make the regulation become a difficulty (Fukushima Accident, 2015). Therefore, Fukushima accident was also caused majorly by human mistake like those to accidents introduced before, but the Fukushima accident was unique, because it's also related to culture difference. 
	Basing on the information that provide by authoritative organizations, it's clear that the three most serious were all caused by avoidable human mistakes whether in the end of designers or the end of operators; it's not because the nuclear energy itself has. 
	Prof. <name> who is an assistant professor at the <name> Department of Purdue University pointed out that people tend to be afraid of things that they don't understand, and nuclear energy is just one of those things problems. Due to this reason, media also tend to make nuclear energy looks dangerous either because they don't understand this field or because they have to make news looks serious so that more people would watch their program; as a result, fear would be separate around people and make people feel afraid (Personal interview, Nov 2, 2015). 
	However, the truth is that nuclear energy had a good record throughout the safety records of nuclear energy. WNA (2015) suggest that the three accidents mentioned before were the only three accident, Chernobyl accident was the only one caused serious consequences (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors, 2015). Moreover, according to WNA (2015), "16,000 cumulative reactor-years of commercial nuclear power operation in 33 countries" (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors, 2015). Although the impacts of disasters could be tremendous, but people should not lose trust on nuclear energy due to three accidents within 16,000 cumulative reactor-years. 
	Also, engineers are always improving the system. According to WNA (2015), the western nuclear power plants are all installed with containments, which are like containers that isolates the reactors with outside to prevent any leak. As an improvement of safety, those Russian made reactors are all closed to ensure the safety. (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors) Therefore, people could prevent nuclear energy enter an unsafe, and incontrollable situation. World Nuclear Association (2015) suggests that in order to achieve the convenient of cooling, the designer would chose locations nearby the cost, thus, tsunami or flooding could be threats to the safety; although the natural disaster could be a trigger of nuclear accident like Fukushima nuclear accident, but engineers make improvements on the structure to prevent an accident like nuclear accident. For example, some French reactors are close to the sea, engineers build sea walls to prevent flooding and tsunami; although Fukushima accident was caused by tsunami, but Fukushima's sea wall could be useful if they would have the regulations like today (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors, 2015). Therefore, the risks could be controlled with will managed and rigorous operations. People should trust nuclear engineers' technologies, which they have ensured 16,000 reactor-yeas operations. 
	Moreover, people should not just reject nuclear energy because nuclear energy is the most practical high efficiency clean energy over others; reject nuclear energy would cause energy shortage and economic issues. According to the WNA, after the Fukushima nuclear accident, the result of the polling about the public opinions of nuclear energy shows that about 90% of people oppose the development of nuclear energy; therefore, German is shutting down nuclear power plants due to the wide protest on nuclear power; the half of the electricity in German is now powered by fossil fuel (Nuclear Power in Germany, 2015). WNA suggest that the cost for German to replace nuclear energy by other new energy would be extremely high about 1000 billion, moreover, the new energy that is planning to be replaced would not be as efficient as nuclear energy (Nuclear Power in Germany, 2015). Prof. <name> suggests that "German had to import electricity from other countries to ensure the electricity usage; ironically, the electricity they imported was generated by nuclear energy" (Personal interview, Nov 2, 2015). Therefore, people should not reject nuclear energy just because the fear of not understanding nuclear energy. 
	Based on the research, the risk of having accident could be minimized. As the world is having more and more environmental issues, reject nuclear energy would not help the world to recover its environment since there isn't any new energy as reliable as, and as practical as nuclear energy. Although Prof. <name> said that engineers could not eliminate the risk since there would be situations that system could not deal with, human must be operating the system no matter how well the system is designed; however, comprehensive training and well-designed system could minimize the risk. The media should do their research before reporting professional topic like nuclear energy, since nowadays people are usually getting information by media; report with misunderstanding or selling strategy would only make people to have more fear over something they should trust. People who are not trusting nuclear energy could also find out some knowledge from academic paper and try to understand this technology, except those people who are pretending to sleep. In conclusion, people should trust nuclear energy as it has a good safety record within long term with minimized risk by modern technologies. 	 
Reference 
United States Nuclear Commission (2013, February 1). Backgrounder on the Three Mile Island 
Accident. Retrieved October 5, 2015. Retrieved from: http://www.nrc.gov/reading- 
rm/doc-collections/fact-sheets/3mile-isle.html 
World Nuclear Association. (2015, October 1). Nuclear Power in Germany. Retrieved November 
2, 2015. Retrieved from http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/Country-Profiles/Countries- 
G-N/Germany/ 
World Nuclear Association. (2015). Chernobyl Accident 1986. Retrieved October 14, 2015, 
Retrieved from http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/Safety-and-Security/Safety-of- 
Plants/Chernobyl-Accident/ 
World Nuclear Association. (2015). Fukushima Accident. Retrieved October 14, 2015, Retrieved 
from http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/Safety-and-Security/Safety-of-Plants/Fukushima- 
Accident/ 
World Nuclear Association. (2012). Three Mile Island Accident. Retrieved October 14, 2015, 
Retrieved from http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/Safety-and-Security/Safety-of- 
Plants/Three-Mile-Island-accident/ 
World Health Organization. (2005). Chernobyl: The true scale of the accident. Retrieved October 
14, 2015. Retrieved from http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2005/pr38/en/ 
Running Head: Should people trust nuclear energy 2 
Running Head: SHOULD PEOPLE TRUST NUCLEAR ENERGY 1 
