P5d3_arp 
April 28, 2016 
College Students Should Not Always Challenge Authority 
Usually people are regarded to have independent idea from their tens, because since then, instead of simply following they tend to challenge instructions from their parents or teachers. Challenge defined as "to question formally the legality or legal qualifications" in Merriam-Webster Dictionary. (N.A.) In fact, according to IB Theory of Knowledge teacher Amy Li in Shude High School, students tend to challenge information from authorities since their high school age. (Personal communication, February 27, 2016) Students are welcome to doubt the truth or rationale behind everything provided by any authority. This phenomenon has been encouraged by most people nowadays. However, the encouragement makes challenge authority become easily and simply doubting and criticizing everything without any justification. In fact, most college students do not have the ability to do so and there is not false to follow authorities for college students. Also, challenging is not always the best way for students to deal with information from authorities. Therefore, challenging authorities, in most of cases, is not necessary for college students. 
Almost every college student does not have enough ability to challenge authorities. For most of college students, although they may have their specific major, they are obviously not expertise in such field. They still have a lot to learn. Under such condition, not every student has enough knowledge background to challenge their professors. In fact, from professor Jack Spencer, in most of cases what students usually do is to question what contradictory with what they think they know. (Personal communication, March 2, 2016) In another word, without any justification, students just simply doubt the information which has conflicts with their common sense. Their common sense may be highly inaccurate comparing with professional knowledge offered professor. In this situation, there is no need to challenge, students probably should simply search further information or ask more detailed explanations. Besides academic field, college students are really new to society or life, they also do not have the knowledge to doubt authorities in their daily life. For example, there is no need to challenge doctors in hospital. Doctors have professional knowledge for medicine or diseases, but most of college students only have experience from their parents or friends. In such case, why should a college student to challenge information from such authority? 
On top of that, obedience, not challenging but following authorities, is important for not only college students but also for society as a whole. "Obedience is a part of the foundation of society. Without obedience, naught would exist but chaos and anarchy. Without stability, productivity and the well-being of the citizens become non-existent." (Nicholas P. Leveillee, 2011) It is in our common sense that chaos will not make our life productive. In fact, just like obedience making society ordered and productive, reasonable obedience in class will provide students productive classes and ordered environment. For example, if an instructor is keeping interrupted by students, the instructor may not able to finish his teaching plan. In this case, challenging is not efficient and a waste of time. Apart from that, obedience benefit students to learn. "Skinner, perhaps the most important behaviorist, argues that it is not a question of whether or not a student is shaped to exhibit particular behaviors. The only issue is who and what will do the shaping, and for what ends." (Debates in Education, N.A.) In the other words, teacher and parents, and their teaching and parenting processes are much more important than the desired outcomes people have on children. This is because, as long as children are teaching or parenting by good teachers or parents, they will automatically have expected traits or abilities. "Obedience is a key means of fostering the implantation of desired goals through appropriate shaping, whether or not the student is aware of all the dynamics of the reaming environment." (Vern Jones, N.A.) Hence, for college students, obedience to advisor, professor, or parents is helping them to build a structured knowledge background, to gain a greater academic achievement. 
Nowadays, college students are encouraged being critical. It seems like challenging is the way to prove that students are critical. Challenging is labelled as brave and categorized in impressive qualities for college students. However, The Carnegie Mellon University's faculty support website mentioned "In some instances, students act rudely to test the instructor, to flex their own intellectual muscle, or to show off to classmates." (Solve a Teaching Problem, N. A.) This is one of usual ways we see how students challenge authority. Also, sometimes students simply throw out opposite opinions just want to be seemed critical. The fact is, most of college students do not have the ability to be real critical. I admitted that the correct way for college students to deal with information from authorities is to be critical. Although there might be similarities between critical thinking and challenging, critical thinking is not simply to challenge. In the article Teaching for Critical Thinking: Helping College Students Develop the Skills and Dispositions of a Critical Thinker. Diane F. Halpern (1999) defined critical thinking as "the kind of thinking involved in solving problems, formulating inferences, calculating likelihoods, and making decisions." (70) That is to say, critical thinking instead of a strategies or a way of behaving it is a way of thinking. College students should have their opinion towards information from authorities, other than simply show off their intelligent and to mean to provide opposite opinions. After carefully thinking about information from authorities, students still could choose methods such as seeking further information from various scores, or ask detailed explanations and so on to deal with information from authority instead of simply showing disagree and challenge. 
In short, challenging authorities is not always good for students. Because college students may not able to so, and obedience instead of challenging has a lot benefits to students. College student should be rational and critical. Showing off the ability of debating is not the proper way for us to deal with information from authority. 
Reference list 
Carnegie Mellon University. (N.A.) Students are intentionally challenging the instructor's authority. Sole a teaching Problem. Retrieved from https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/solveproblem/strat-behaverudely/behaverudely-05.html 
David Zern. Vern Jones. (N.A.). Debates in Education. Curriculum Review. 31. 3. 6-7. Retrieved from http://web.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/ehost/detail/detail?sid=11ecedea-66e3-4e7a-aff5-13b64a6efe37%40sessionmgr120&vid=0&hid=105&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc3Qtb Gl2ZQ%3d%3d&preview=false#AN=9706306146&db=aph 
Halpern, D. F. (1999). Teaching for Critical Thinking: Helping College Students Develop the Skills and Dispositions of a Critical Thinker. New Directions for Teaching and Learning, 1999(80), 69-74. Retrieved from Wiley. 
Merriam-Webster online dictionary. (N.A.) Retrieved from http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/challenge 
Nicholas P. Leveillee. (2011). The Role of Obedience in Society. 3.05. Retrieved from http://www.studentpulse.com/articles/524/the-role-of-obedience-in-society 
