Technology, The New Teaching Aid 
Technology has grown incredibly the past decades and continues to grow exponentially. The use of technology is no longer an option, it's a necessity and everyone needs to adapt to the constant changes occurring due to this growth. Concerning education, technology available in schools for students and teachers, offers an educational system that couldn't have been possible previous years. Technological devices like tablets, mobile phones, computers and the Internet, offer students the possibility to learn at a faster rate and develop different aptitudes. Educational systems are changing to provide more interactive, creative and fun activities in schools. Having technology available inside the classroom could help improve these young children high order thinking abilities and their knowledge and life skills. 
With the use of technological devices and the Internet, group activities inside classrooms are more efficient and provide a group-working environment for students. These devices become time saving tools while students work in groups and improve student's communication skills. For example, if the activity is to create a presentation, all team members can work on the same presentation, at the same time, and from different tablets/computers. Young students benefit by learning to use these types of technological tools and become more technology-savvy compared to students born in the 90 s who struggled sending documents via e-mail. The use of technology in education is a great opportunity for new generations because they are able to apply what they learn in their academic, professional and personal lives. Technology is everywhere and implementing it for education improves life overall. 
According to Heather Grinager, when technology is used the correct way during activities inside the classroom, it improves and helps develop their high order thinking abilities. This is caused by the use of tablets and interactive screens that classrooms provide for students. Teachers also benefit because their teaching methods are more dynamic and create a more interactive environment where students don't get bored and pay attention most of the time. It makes students think beyond the average and come up with more creative ideas to solve any kind of problem or activity during class time. For example, there is a new app where students can download three-dimensional figures that can be stretched, shrunk and molded. This helps the students visualize the changes occurring to the figure, instead of just drawing it on the whiteboard. There are hundreds of apps that students can benefit from and improve their thinking skills instead of going along with a traditional education system. 
Teaching and learning with the use of technology might sound incredible, but there are some obstacles teachers and students can encounter. For example, when there are teachers that are not fluent and qualified and up to date with technology, students can have a hard time understanding and might think that technology makes things harder, instead of easier. This is why educators are constantly being capacitated to implement technology so that young students can benefit from their teachers skills and learn to use it properly. Teachers can now come up with innovative activities for hard and sometimes boring content. For example, children can download an app for math class where they can count using different figures and colors. These types of apps could be utilized by the teacher and plan interesting learning activities with the use of apps during class time. 
Young students have the opportunity of a new and exciting learning experience that was not available for past generations. Technology provides the Internet, devices, programs and apps that make students learning experiences fun and interactive. Students now enjoy going to school because they are able to use these devices. Technology available in classrooms for young students helps them improve their communication and group skills and high order thinking abilities. Students can benefit from technology because they can now visualize and apply concepts to real life. The abilities they learn from using devices and apps improve their daily personal lives and their future academic and professional life. Students learn to make their homework and school activities in a more efficient way, with more creativity and with an improved final product. Technology makes students go further an aim for higher goals, instead of just settling with a simple solution. This is why elementary schools should focus on implementing technological devices and making them available for students and teachers. As well, its important to consider that the training of teachers is necessary so they can transmit their knowledge to students and make them see home technology provides better-quality education. Having technology available for class use at a young age should not be the question, but what can we do to make this possible should. 
