April 29, 2016
Scope in Carbon-Neutral Construction
Greenhouse emissions have been a concern to environmentalists all around the globe. These emissions lead to a climate change and every society and culture come up with solutions to reduce such greenhouse gases. Narrowing it down to my project, Construction sector produces 36% of greenhouse gases in the industrialised countries (Zuo J. et al. 2013). This is where low carbon buildings and carbon-neutral buildings come into play. Although this is a viable solution, it lacks drivers for a change in the building industry. Researches all around the globe have come to the same conclusion (Zuo J. et al. 2013) due to the challenges and situations that occur in making such buildings. But, I believe there is a prolific amount of scope in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and carbon footprint in the construction sector.
In the interview conducted for the project, <name>, who has been in the construction industry for over 26 years and has constructed several Gold LEED certified buildings, suggests many possible design changes and material replacements that can lead to a low carbon construction. Concrete can be mixed with admixtures and additives like fly ash that make its properties green and durable. Concrete also has reusable properties that make it green. It can be used in demo buildings, can be ground and used as aggregate, can be put in the base of roads etc. (Rahil Nandu. 2016). Concerning electricity and energy use, there are simple but effective methods to keep the energy consumption down. Windows and skylights can be introduced in the design to allow sunlight to penetrate. Blinds and louvers can be fitted to adjust the amount of sunlight penetration (Rahil Nandu. 2016). For water, several local water filtration plants can be set up in the project itself where grey water can be used for irrigation (Rahil Nandu. 2016). Also, plantations on the roof can be done to keep the building cool and absorb the gamma radiations from the sun (Rahil Nandu. 2016). All these suggestions and methods are a simply pointing towards the scope in green construction that has not been, yet, exploited
All these things can be done but the government is not pushing the construction firms hard enough to employ such measures. The drivers for change can only come about when people realize how severely the climate has changed over years but it is too late to do anything or when someone or a group of people realize this beforehand and persuade to bring about the change. This 'group of people' has to be the government or some kind of organization, that is powerful enough, to bring about a change. As Mr. <name> said in the interview, it has to be the government leading the way to reach to such optimal construction (Rahil Nandu. 2016).
To prove my point that there is an urgent need and a substantial scope in carbon-neutral construction, let's look at the 'Pixel Building' that is a benchmark and a successful effort in making a carbon-neutral structure located in Melbourne, Australia. There are unpredictive irregular weather and climate patterns all over the world and nothing is done to counter it, but with this green construction and the 'Pixel Building' made successfully, it shows that there is a way and an urgent need to make more of such buildings. The engineers and architects faced many challenges but the knowledge and experience in construction was the key that took them to the road of victory. Like LEED, Environmental Sustainable Development (ESD) and Green Star Assessment were major organizations to help them in selecting materials. In an interview conducted for the research, the interviewee mentioned, "carbon-neutrality can be linked with Green Star Assessment" which indicated that this organization in Australia is very well developing and enforcing carbon-neutral construction (Zuo J. et al. 2013). The firm specifically designed a substitute for concrete and named it "Pixelcrete". 95% of the timber and other items like piping, flooring etc. were reused from other buildings. Many integrated engineering systems like smart windows, sun shading systems, vacuum toilet, gas-filtered absorption chambers were incorporated to reduce carbon footprint (Zuo J. et al. 2013). Renewable energy systems like wind turbines and photovoltaic panels for power generation, anaerobic digestion system for the building's black waste etc. were used to reduce the carbon-footprint (Zuo J. et al. 2013). All these and others were the most significant measures incorporated in the building and design to counterbalance the carbon emissions.
Even though there are not many incentives and drivers for change now in terms of profit, cost and efficiency, there will always be the incentive of sustainable development that is required so that our children can live a better and a quality life. According to the survey conducted and published online, the most power to influence the green construction lies with the owner, then the architects and lastly, the contractors (Parrish, & Holloway (2015)). Thus the contractors possess very low opinion on how the construction should be. The survey also reveals the main challenge or obstacle to sustainable construction. 90% of the respondents suggest that this obstacle is an illusion of 'high initial cost' (Parrish, & Holloway (2015)). The cost is not very high but the owners feel the opposite and turn down the idea. The other major barrier acknowledged by 57% of the contractors was the 'cost of certification', the certification required from LEED to label the building as green (Parrish, & Holloway 2015)) leaving the owner reluctant to go ahead with green construction. The evidence in the paper clearly states that the contractors realize the importance of green and sustainable development but due to the lack of power to influence, they are not always able to execute the idea. Thus the driver for change can come when the investors or the owners believe that it is time to start creating sustainable buildings. When this happens, the construction industry will minimize its greenhouse gases significantly, making this world a better place to live in. The appearance of academic discussion on carbon-neutral construction shows that people are paying attention to this problem but only the appearance of such discussions is not good enough for any contractor, investor or owner to reduce their profits.
As Mentioned above, all the solutions, a real life example and a survey to demonstrate the challenges and obstacles are a wakeup call for all firms and owners around the globe to start working towards carbon-neutral construction. Therefore, this reiterates my argument that even though there are several challenges, there is a brilliant scope in the construction industry to reduce the greenhouse gases and elude carbon-footprint and someone has to take the first step towards the broader and brighter future while compromising on profit and efficiency.
Zuo, J., Read, B., Pullen, S., & Shi, Q. (2013). Carbon-Neutral Commercial Building Development. Journal of Management in Engineering, 29(1), 95-102. doi:10.1061/(ASCE)ME.1943-5479. 0000127
Parrish, K., & Holloway, S. (2015). The contractor's role in the sustainable construction industry. Engineering Sustainability, 168(2), 53-60. doi:10.1680/ensu.14. 00026
(<name>, personal communication, February 25, 2016)
5
