P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15, 2015 
Best Use of College Courses 
There have been lots of debates about the university curriculum nowadays: some educationalists suggest that students should have the full freedom to choose whatever they want to study, instead of blindly following the university requirements. This suggestion sounds very attractive at first, but frankly, I think it is actually quite impracticable. On one side, lots of students do not really know what they really want to learn and what is important, and it is the easiness that let them choose a particular course. On the other side, university is actually responsible for educating students to be qualified employees, and students may not get enough professional knowledge if they just choose what they like. Thus, it is clear that a university should keep its curriculum and graduation requirements, pushing students to learn what they should learn. And beyond this, I think the education will probably be more efficient if the university takes some actions to let students know why these courses are important and necessary, evoking their interest. 
Those courses can be very beneficial, without any doubt, especially speaking about those foreign language courses. According to an article written by Zack Simon (2014), learning a new language is helping improve one's creativity. More particularly, a new language is also a new way of thinking, so it allows a distinctive perspective. And increasing creativity is not the only profit: more practically, foreign language ability may give students a remarkable advantage in their career development. It is the idea from Dominic Luddy (2008), a linguist, that students who speak more than one language will have more opportunities and earn more salaries after they graduate from college. And in my interview with the career development expert <name>, this perspective is conformed: <name> suggested that a foreign language ability does become more and more important since the economy is becoming global and the trend is unstoppable. These experts' ideas is showing the necessity of the foreign language courses, but they are not enough. 
On the other hand, although these courses are quite useful, students actually do not realize the importance or they fail to get the best use of them. According to a research conducted by Juan Antonio Thomas (2010) in University at Albany, most of the students take the courses just for fulfilling the foreign language requirement. Obviously, they will neither continue their study after the requirement being fulfilled, nor practice the verbal skills outside classroom. And there are also plenty of students who take these courses because they think these courses will bring them professional advantages in their career. But actually, few of them know how a foreign language ability will do so. This phenomenon suggests that they do not have a clear plan about their career development, indicating the university should put more efforts to help students in this way. 
If the university can help each student with his or her future plan, it will probably make him or her become more clear about what they need to learn in college in order to be competitive in job market. Also, if the university can hold some more foreign cultural courses and foreign cultural events, students may have more interest in learning the related foreign language, since language is the key to interact with another culture. 
I definitely think university should keep the foreign language requirement, but beyond that, there are lots of actions a university can take, in order to help students gain more benefit from those courses. 
