Argumentative Essay (Third Draft) 
April 25, 2016 
Psychology Regenerates People 
	Psychology is an amazing science that lies beyond every person that has ever existed in this world. The reason why people live in harmony is Psychology; furthermore, people imagine, they see and they predict thanks to psychology. I strongly believe that even though most of the people feel that Psychology is a boring social science class, Psychology is an amazing life class that extends people's perspective and view. Personally, I believe that Psychology teaches how to live, how to see and how to believe. After learning Psychology, people will improve a bunch of skills. In order to prove my point, I will be talking about the powers of Psychology. 
First of all, I believe that Psychology not only heals people but it also grants a new perspective. According to one of my sources, one of the greatest example would be the historical story of "Fan Zhonyan". According to the Fan Zhonyan story (Yang 1 - 10), Fan encounters many challenges and difficulties in his life. After a certain point he loses his joy to live and his ability to be happy. While his life seems unbearable he realizes the bigger picture. With his instincts he creates a psychologic approach and he finds the source and sorrow of the people. He decides to heal the world with what he sees and observes. Eventually he becomes a better person and his benevolence changes the people around him in a good way. This is a perfect example of a perspective difference. After interacting with Psychology, Fan gained a new perspective and be able to perceive the world with a different eye. Psychology was not only benevolent to Fan but it was also benevolent to the people around Fan. One of the interesting thing about Fan Zhonyan is that he didn't learn Psychology; however, he acted like a true psychologist. Maybe one of the reasons he had to find out the psychological approach by himself was the fact that Psychology didn't exist that years. Luckily we do have a chance to learn Psychology and heal the people around us. That's why people should learn Psychology and they must apply psychological methods to their lives. 
Consequently, making a positive difference in this world will make people more happy and peaceful. My second belief about Psychology is that we can be able to have a deeper idea about human emotions; as a result, we can be able to improve our relationships with others. According to my interview with <name> , a Ph D student who is currently working at <place> University, there are many other methods to understand human behavior and emotion. Accordingly, we have many opportunities to understand the person we are interested in. For example, <name> believes that if we want to be friends with another person, there are some methods that we can predict his/her thoughts and desires. Hence, we can be able to treat him/her the way she/he is wants to be treated. Treating the way, he/she wants to be treated will enthrall this person and it will make sure that he/she will be a friend of you. Accessing inner persona (inner self) of others guarantees us to be closer with them. This is a great opportunity that needs to be exploited. With Psychological techniques we can be able to achieve whatever we want. 
Thirdly, I believe that Psychology gives us power because interestingly Psychology enables us to change human personality. According to the interview I had with <name> and <name>, another Ph D student who is currently working at <place> University, with right techniques and right motivations we could be able to change any person's personality. For example, if we reward people when they behave the way we want them to be, for example giving a candy to a child when she cleans her room. On the other hand, if we punish people when they don't behave the way we want them to be, punishing the child when she doesn't clean her room. Eventually we can be able to change the personality of the person. Having a power like that is amazing and enthralling. 
According to some people every thing in the world of Psychology has weaknesses. Even though Psychology seems unbeatable it has its own unique problems. For example, sometimes Psychology leads to wrong decisions and wrong acts. For example, the techniques we used to understand human mind sometimes can lead to wrong decisions. Consequently, we might act to the person in a different way that he or she wants to be treated. For example, religious people are generally capable of understanding other religious people; however, if they try to understand non religious people they generally tend to fail. In addition to this they can misjudge people and their behaviors towards non religious people could be harsh. One of the other weaknesses that Psychology has that it has a dangerous power, it can change someone's personality. For example, politicians in oppressive countries can take advantage of power to change ones personality and can abuse this power by leading and forcing the people to vote for them. Psychology has seriously dangerous powers like these. Not only, is dangerous but it also creates disharmony. A great example for this would be being cocky. Psychology sometimes may lead to be cocky in front of the people. The reason for this is that people generally tend to be cocky when they have an idea or an information about something. Since people, who took psychology, assume that they know everything about the world and they know any personality psychologists might go forward and be cocky. One example to this would be a statement like I know you better than you know yourself. Accordingly, this can create disharmony and anger between people because generally no one likes to be with domineering people. Since Psychology gives ability to program, remodel, people these powers can be dangerous and can create problems in a society. 
Psychology can seem dangerous and something that needs to be destroyed, however, like everything in this world Psychology has medicines for its own poisons and problems. First of all, Psychology needs practice, like any other science in the world without proper practice Psychology will fail to tap into the persona (inner self) of a person. Consequently, a person needs to practice fully in order to use the tactics and the methods of Psychology. When understood Psychology will lead to improving comments. A good example for this would be counseling psychologists. People who do have social problems will generally tend to go to these kind of psychologists and solve their problems easily. Another thing about Psychology is that while Psychologies power to change one's personality is beneficial. According to <name> with right personality changing tactics psychologists could be able to change the people who are drug addicts. By changing addictive peoples personality psychologists could be able to save the people from the influence of the drugs. The best help for this would be able to change the addictive person's personality. Thanks to the Psychology we can easily help this person by changing his personality. Moreover, Psychology grants protection from mind tricks and corruptions. By teaching how to avoid corruptions Psychology gives protection to people. By learning the methods of corruption people can learn to protect themselves from oppressive people. In order to avoid corruption, we have to learn Psychology because corruption is everywhere: in advertisements, in oppressive politicians persuading speeches and basically in everything. Learn Psychology to defend yourself. Thirdly, people can act cocky but this is not because of Psychology. Psychology doesn't teach to demean people. On the contrary, Psychology teaches people to respect, observe and to be able to see the hidden beauty in one. Acting cocky would be the only one to proof that people don't know Psychology. I strongly believe that like every other thing in this world Psychology has weaknesses but I believe that Psychology is different from others. It teaches how to protect yourself against the dangers and problems. Since <name> strongly believes that Psychology needs to be learned and the weaknesses that it has can be beaten I conclude that Psychology is an amazing life class. 
Finally, Psychology is an amazing lifetime opportunity that everyone needs to exploit. Psychology must be learned by everyone because it teaches great techniques and grants one a whole new perspective. Psychology grants respect and it gives access to the hidden personality of a person. It has weaknesses but also it teaches people to how to defend themselves against its own unique tricks. In order to be a kind and a insightful person everyone needs to learn psychology. 
Citations: 
2 
