P5d2 
April 13, 2016 
Korean government's incompetence 
Education is the hottest keyword in South Korea. According to statistics, Koreans spend 48% of their monthly family income just on the purpose for teaching their children, which obviously shows how much Koreans are enthusiastic about learning. But as the old saying goes, "Too much is as bad as too little." Infinite competition and excessive private education have been the biggest issue in Korea: they are investing too much in educating their own children, and the problem is mainly because of the government's policy in college entrance. The college entrance program in South Korea requires students to be more than just a hard-working student, it makes them to inevitably enroll private academies or hire personal tutors. And the costs run into astronomical figures; students from low income families are not able to afford them. To straighten this out, government policies for college entrance need to be modified as suggested: To allow colleges to test students once again after the national college entrance exam and to reduce students being admitted by the "Admission officer system." 
To explain the reason why I suggested the first solution, Allowing colleges to test their candidates (also referred as students), is because the national academic event currently held in Korea, is failing to differentiate the academic achievement levels from students. According to the Ministry of Education, over the past 10 years, not only the range of the materials which the national college entrance exam covers became narrow, but also the level of difficulty has greatly dropped. Government's explanation of this situation is that making the test itself easier can lessen the burden from students and also reduce excessive private education. The reality is, however, people look for more of them because they need to get extremely high scores in the so-called easy test compared to others, in order to get admitted to elite colleges. According to the interview with <name> , who works at Daewon Foreign Language High School as a teacher, students who don't get admitted to those colleges study an extra year, getting themselves enrolled in private academies. "This feeds the private academy economy, which the government does not really like to be grown", says <name> . 
The reason I offered reducing the number of students admitted by the "Admission officer system" is because it has various types of flaws. To mention the biggest problem of that, it does not have a clear criteria; that means the college will pick students in their own taste. It looks fine from the outside because technically, colleges have the right to admit students themselves. But the dark side casts over the bright side. Over the past few years, 13 students got cancelled their admission because their parents were caught by bribing to one of the admissions office executives. This became a very big issue in Korea because people thought, up to that point, studying extremely hard and achieving great results is the 'firmly secured ladder' for the poor to move up to an upper class. But this scandal shocked the entire country leaving question-marks on the "Admission officer system". On top of that, an editorial written by Koo (2014) illustrates the hardships which Korean students confront with. He strongly argues about the sad fact that these students suffer from elementary school preparing for the "Admissions officer system", later in their future. 
I admit that my suggestions are not perfect, but I still think they are way much better than the current policies. People could say that, allowing colleges to test their candidates once more will give more financial burden on students, since colleges would require applicants to pay another examination fee. On top of that, they would say students would feel more pressure on their studies because they need to study more deeply than before. But what I would say is that the costs which students pay to colleges when they take another one, will not be too expensive. Furthermore, students have to pay an additional fee to each college they apply even at this point, so the costs for the examination would not be such a burden as expected. Moreover, by requiring students to study more, we can expect a higher level of knowledge from them compared by the past. Some might question me what the alternatives would be, if I want the number of students admitted by "Admission officer system" to be reduced, and refute that students admitted from this procedure might perform well in their college years. As I said, I would just want the reduction of the number of students, not abolition. Obviously there has been a lot of problems with this admission process and what I think is that we should start making amendments through time, not just admitting students without any plans. Plus, statistics show students admitted by this system performed relatively bad in their college years; this definitely show a problem. 
In conclusion, I think South Korea's education policies are quite unfair. And the gap between the wealthy and the poor is growing bigger and bigger. So, the government should make some changes in its policies such as allowing colleges to test the students once more after the national entrance exam and reducing students admitted by the "Admission officer system". 
