How international students successfully overcome and benefit from eating lives? 
Purdue University 
04/08/2015 
Abstract 
Eating lives act as problems in more and more international students' studying lives in the U.S. At Purdue, from my personal experience and communication with others, eating lives do negatively affect many international students a lot. The reason which cause the problem can mainly due to two parts: the big difference between culture eating habits and schedule, side-effects of not adapting to the new environment. After my deep research and interview at Purdue, I have found out several ways to relatively solve the problem. Keeping a relative balance and trying to fit the environment will be a beneficial experience to every international student. This is a way they can choose to deal with their eating lives. 
Key words: International students, eating life, new environment. 
How international students successfully overcome and benefit from eating lives? 
Introduction 
Recent years, the number of international students study in American college significantly increase, in 2014, there are about 900,000 foreign students enroll in U.S higher education system, which gets a 40% increase comparing with 2004.(UWN, 2014) Accompanying with the increasing of international students, many problem rising quickly. The daily eating life of these international students is just a typical one. Because of the big difference between home-countries and the U.S in culture and eating habits, finding uncomfortable experiences in eating is very common among international students. The reasons which causing the uncomfortable experiences are very complex, they may include different schedule, different types of foods, different environments of eating and many other factors. Therefore, it is really important for me to find out a way which can make international students deal with their eating life without difficulties. After interviewing two international students with different ages that from two different countries in Purdue, I found the main cause for foreign students at Purdue to having problems in eating lives. Besides, some methods for international students to truly conquer this problem are also concluded by me. Trying best to fit into the schedule of American eating habits and keeping a relative balance between American food and home-countries' food should be the best way for solving this problem. Studying in American is a comprehensive experience, it should include many aspects. Different eating experience is just one of them. Therefore, trying to change it from ourselves should be the best way. 
Causation 
When suddenly move to such a new environment, the transaction for a freshman student is very hard. Sometimes the most difficult part for an international student in the first college year is not the studying part, but the living part. Eating life is just a big factor in this transaction. According to an academic paper Impact of the American Diet on Newly-Arrived International Students during their first three months at Virginia Tech, (Almohanna 2010 Dec 4), there will be a big change on bodies of international students after a certain period of taking American food which is a totally new types of food. Although this kind of change is not always appear negative on every person, it does affect their lives in a huge extent. In Almohanna's paper, he claimed that these "new" American food mainly influence international students in energy and weight. In a scientific way, the sudden engage of American food which has high level calorie may cause international students gain some weight in a short period. And the side-effect of increasing-weight is the lost of energy for studying and working. This may cause many further negative effect in the future. If we view this problem in another way, we can conclude another reason causing eating problem. Because of the difficulties for accepting American food and meanwhile can't find other replacing food in a short time, some international students will cut their diet in short-run. The result of this is very obvious - lacking of energy, further and deeper uncomfortable with eating life. 
Solution 
Under such a situation, it is very hard for international to study in a good condition. "The first month I came here was not so bad, but in the second month, I really got tired of American food. I was really surprised about that I got tired of it such quick. As a result, during the second and third month, I only ate about 2 meals every day."(<name> 2015) This was what one of my interviewee said. The efficient and concentration for study will be really low when someone even can't make his stomach full. 
In an academic paper Changes in dietary habits following temporal migration. The case of international students in Belgium. (Perez-Cueto, Verbeke, Lachat 2008 Jan 29), they pointed out that the changing of dietary habits of international students should be an initiative action. International students should trying to fit into the environment but not waiting the surrounding elements to fit them. Actually there are many easy methods for overcoming this problem. From one of my interviewee <name>, what he did was "keeping a superficial balance between American food and Chinese food."(Chang 2015) In his point of view, making a true balance between American food and Chinese food is almost impossible for international students. But what they can choose is "having breakfast or lunch with American food which are easier to access and quicker to eat and cooking some Chinese food for dinner which are more delicious for us."(<name> 2015) Making the largest use of two different advantages of two types of food can be really an enjoyable solution for eating problem of international students. Actually I think this can be seen as a really good example of fitting into a strange environment: mixing different elements and creating an own way of living or eating. 
Conclusion 
Eating lives are very important to students' lives. It should be a process which is enjoyable and helpful to a student, but not a thing which concerned by international student who has already concerned about many other problems coming with the sudden shift to a new environment. In order to fit and adapt to a new types of food as quick as they can, international students can choose to try to keep a superficial balance between different kinds of food and find an own way to dealing eating life. Making the biggest use of advantages of different foods are really helpful to them. Trying to fit into the situation with the best they can is a process which present their transaction from their own culture to a new culture. Actually, this is just one part of the college study. 
