P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 9, 2015 
Internet Fictions 
	" <name> , stop reading those stupid online novels and focus on your study, now!" This is what my mom usually said to me during my high school time. With the spread of the Internet, online novels are becoming more and more popular among modern day people. And based on the huge amount of them, they include nearly all kinds of novels, the romantic stories, the science fictions etc. They usually will be so fascinating to teenagers that teenagers will even spend hours reading them instead of studying. Some people say that those online novels are good to teenagers because those novels can enlarge teenagers' amount of reading. However, I think although these online novels have some advantages to teenagers, they have more disadvantages to teenagers. 
	First of all, reading too much online novels will bring some health problems to teenagers. For instance, I was addicted to those fictions when I was in junior high school. I loved reading them so much that whenever I had time, I would read them. Especially during weekends, I usually would wake up at about 12pm because I did not stop reading the fiction until 3am. This often made me do not have enough sleep and grow some disgusting acnes on my face. What's more, I began reading them through my cellphones during the classes sometimes. Although those classes were not hard for me that time, I had to spend some time reading textbooks and my classmates' notes to learn. And the result was that I have even less time to sleep. Finally I was too tired, so I had a fever and did not get a satisfying grade at the end of that semester. Novel on the Internet usually has millions of words, so finishing reading one novel will spend a lot of time for one person. For teenagers, because they have classes to take and have homework to finish, they usually do not have much free time. Then if they begin reading the story and in order to satisfy their own curiosities and find out the end of story, they will spend time reading the story instead of paying attention to the teachers in front of the classrooms or having a nice dream at night. This will be harmful to both their study and their bodies. 
Apart from the physical health problem, Internet novels will also bring mental health problems. Internet novels are usually about the imaginary worlds, thus reading them too often will let teenagers be unwilling to face the reality. For example, the time-travel fictions are about the protagonist's experience of traveling to the past and possessing someone important at that time. Because the history is a time we cannot experience and those time-travel fictions are often about t traveling back to the past and doing things differently, teenagers will be excited about experiencing the history as an emperor or the General. In those unreal worlds, they do anything they think is useful and "fortunately" works every time. However, the huge difference between the fictional world and the toughly real society makes modern day teenagers somewhat be unwilling to accept the real world and makes them be more nervous and difficult to talk to unknowns. Moreover, time-travel fictions often will let the protagonist become ten or more years younger after the time-travel. Then the protagonist will be favored by the parents and elders again. In this case, the teenagers who read them will addict to this kind of fake feeling. But in the real world, those teenagers are not that young so they think they are not loved enough and feel that they do not want to grow up because they still want to be favored. This means that those teenagers are unwilling to face the reality and want to escape from the family and the society responsibilities. 
From the discussion above, I can conclude that online novels are bad to both teenagers' physical health and mental health. They will usually make teenagers not only feel tired all day and hard to concentrate but also be unwilling to face the reality. However, online novels are not totally bad to teenagers. Students can sometimes benefit from them by memorizing and using the vivid descriptions in them. In my opinion, teenagers who are addicted to those online novels are not only because those novels are attracting but also those novels satisfy their daydreams. Hence I think one way to limit the disadvantages of those online novels is to lead teenagers themselves to realize the best way to treat those Internet novels. 
