LOVE-CUM-ARRANGED MARRIAGE IS BEST 
P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
				Love-cum-arranged marriage is best 
Marriage is one of the most important decision in an individual's life. While love marriage is presently the norm in most countries, there are some countries where arranged marriage is still practiced in some form. Arranged marriage is a type of marriage in which potential bride/groom for an individual is chosen by a third party. This kind of marriage sounds peculiar to the western world because they think that love is spontaneous and one cannot throw two supposedly compatible and tell them to fall in love. On the other hand people from South-Asian countries argue that no matter what, arranged marriage is better because of it's own advantages. Nowadays people in India are following a third kind of marriage called love-cum-arranged marriage. In this marriage potential dates are introduced by family members and if they fall in love they marry each other else their family continues the saga of bride/groom search. I believe that this love-cum-arranged marriage is the best among the three because it takes all the good elements from both love and arranged marriage. 
	One of the main reason why love-cum-arranged marriage is the best among three is because it has both flavors of spouse's love and parent's support at the same time. This marriage permits an individual to take their time and date the person of opposite sex to see whether they are compatible with each other. If that works out then they marry that person else they move on. The benefit of this is that potential chances of heartbreak is much lower in these relationships as compared to chances of heartbreak in love marriage. Before love marriage individuals move on from relationship to relationship to see whether they are compatible as a couple. Sometimes they feel depressed by the fact that they couldn't find the right one they would like to marry. Luckily, in love-cum-arranged marriage pre-screening for bride/groom is done by family members so the chance of fooling the other person is low and individuals try to behave like themselves because they are looking for the long term goal of marital union. 
	On the other hand when love-cum-arranged marriage is compared with arranged marriage, it is observed that they have the same kind of family support. Since bride/groom was once shortlisted by parents in love-cum-arranged marriage, at time of conflict they are more than happy to extend any kind of emotional or economic support at the bad times. Added to this, couples also have the love chemistry between them and they have confidence on each other that they will be there for them for love, support and any other marital needs. 
	Some may argue that it is better to be on blind dates and not depend on parents for shortlisting the candidates for love marriage because it makes one a better person by forming a complete relationship from the start. One learns how to socialize and meet new people. However, again some believe that one doesn't need to be on blind dates to learn socializing. They can learn that by making new friends. 
	Alsp, some may argue with the fact that in love-cum-arranged marriage short listing of potential bride/groom is done like arranged marriage i.e. on the basis of income or education level or any other criteria but again you can find that most of the dating websites in western countries do compare people by their income and education level. It is because of these criteria that two people click more with each other because of same standard of living, maturity and way of thinking. 
	So, in a nutshell I believe that love-cum-arranged marriage is the best among three because it has best elements from both love marriage and arranged marriage. It's like the middle way of two alternatives. This is reflected by the fact that marriages nowadays in India is so successful which is backed by summary statistics that shows that divorce rate in India is just 1. 1 (Wanderlust, 2013) percent which is much better than the global arranged marriage divorce rate of 6 percent (Wanderlust, 2013) and the global love marriage divorce rate. 
