Beauty or Pain on the tip of the feet 
Purdue University 
04/21/15 
	Most people have seen parents send their little girls and boys to the ballet school in their neighborhood. All of them were wearing pink dresses and pointe shoes and followed their teacher and practiced their movement in the mirror. Most of you have been to at least one ballet show. Ballerinas dress up like princesses and princes and use their pointed toes to finish every movement. There is no doubt that ballet is one of the most popular and beautiful dancing art form around the world. However, many critics say that ballet is a very dangerous dance that only looks pretty. Ballet poses so many health risks for all the dancers that cannot be ignored. They argue that ballet is an outdated art form that should disappear. On the other side, ballet is such a beautiful art form and it would be a shame if it disappears from history. Although it has a lot of negative impacts, we should try to overcome those risks and keep dancing because ballet is the passion for dancers and the audiences. 
	My interest on this topic started with my own hobby of dancing ballet. I took ballet classes when I was about 6 years old. It was an enjoyable experience, and I really loved it at first. As time passed, I found out dancing ballet is so hard and it hurts a lot. I was too young to make decisions. My mother said dancing ballet could hurt my body, so she decided to drop my ballet class and change it into hip hop class. After I grew up, I started to question if it was really true, and I began my research about ballet. 
	The most common physical harms for professional ballerinas are joints hypermobility problems and serious injuries. As we all know, ballerinas have to finish leaps and turns on the stage. So they have to practice thousands of times everyday to get that perfect figure. The overuse of joints will easily cause joint hypermobility problems (Grahame, 1972). Professor Grahame is an expert in human science. According to his research done in 1972, professional ballet dancers are at a higher risk for hypermobility problems than nursing students. In his research, Grahame and his team did a set of experiments on both professional ballerinas and nursing school students. Ballerinas have a higher risk to get hypermobility problems because ballet dancers have to stand on their feet for hours everyday and that increases the pressure between the joints. The next possible health problem is getting injuries. Ballet is not only a dancing form but also a kind of sport. It requires a lot of physical effort and very easy to get injured. Professors Ekegren, Quested, and Brodrick did a research study with different groups of professional ballet dancers from different professional ballet schools. They collected data for a whole year and recorded the number of injuries of all the dancers. The rate of injuries was surprisingly high. About 76 percent of the dancers were injured in that year and the total number of injuries was 378 (Ekegren, C). 
	Sometimes ballet can cause negative psychological impacts on dancers. Not a lot of people know that the ballet-dancing industry is highly competitive. According to Erica Leigh of Teen Ink magazine, "To pursue a career in dance a dancer must devote themselves to class, auditions, performances, and anything else that will land them jobs and improve their skills" (Leigh, 2007). The fact that it is really hard to get in a ballet company puts a lot of pressure on all the ballerinas. It requires not only dancing technique, but also talent and opportunities. Some of the dancers can't handle such psychological pressure, and that causes them to have psychological disorder. One of the most famous movie characters played by Natalie Portman called Nina, in the film Black Swan, expressed this reality to more people. The main character, Nina, in the movie is an excellent ballet dancer, and she became the Swan Queen in the new season of the show. This role required her to act as a pure swan and also an evil swan. Nina had a mental breakdown because she couldn't handle the pressure of this role and the competition among other dancers (Black Swan, 2011). 
	After explaining the negative impacts of dancing ballet, you may question why people still want to learn ballet even though they know they may get hurt. This was also the question of Gabriella Yannotti, the journalist from 
World Journalism Preparatory Academy. Gabriella was a ballet dancer and she did a lot of research on why people chose ballet. People gave her different answers. However, in a word, people enjoy dancing ballet. 
	I interviewed one of the ballet teachers at Purdue University, <name> . She was a professional ballet dancer when she was young. She had been dancing for over 50 years. During these years, she had multiple injuries and even hurt her quadriceps twice. Getting injuries are all professional ballet dancers have to be through. However, according to her words, the injuries are nothing compared to the benefits of ballet. Ballet gave people better body awareness, flexibility, body strength, appreciation of arts, better concentration, creative improvement from choreography, physical and emotional expression and release of pressure and so on ( <name> , 2015). I asked whether she regretted learning ballet at the end of the interview. She replied absolutely not because her life is based on the passion for ballet ( <name> , 2015). 
The article wrote by Chen in 2012 list several benefits of dancing ballet. Since dancing ballet requires good posture and alignment, ballet dancers will practice their posture again and again to get the perfect pose. So it will naturally improve their posture in their daily life. Doing the same work again and again can be boring. However, it is a process to teach to achieve perfection. We all know that perfect is hard to get unless you work hard. Keep repeating every ballet movement is a good way to help you be patient to achieve your goal. For some teenagers, they can learn how to be humble in the process and build a better personality (Chen, 2012). 
Dancing ballet can also give us a positive mood and improve our mental and emotional health. A scientific way to explain this is dancing can increase the level of serotonin and norepinephrine. The two neurotransmitters can help us get away the negative emotions and feelings and increase our attention and mental focus (Hackethal,2013). Dancing also release endorphins. Endorphin is a chemical in the brain that can naturally kill the bad mood and gives people a good feeling. So the more you dance, the happier you are. 
	Not every one loves ballet. There are people that think the negative sides of ballet can hurt our body and they quit dancing because of that. Yet, there is still a huge population of students learning ballet. The most important part of continue learning ballet is that ballet way to express your self. It's a way to tell other what you are thinking through every movement. Ballet can bring us pains and physical injuries. However, the benefits and beauty of ballet are so much more important. So enjoy this beauty on the tip of the feet and keep dancing! 
