There are many things that people value in life, such as happiness, wealth, reputation and knowledge. People spend numerous time and efforts to achieve what they think important in life. Then how important does happiness really weigh? Is happiness more important than a high salary job or equally important? Many people fall into such consideration after a tired working day and want to figure out a balance between happiness and money. Grasping a balance point between happiness and money is not easy. Understanding the meaning of life is critical in evaluating happiness. My thesis statement is being happy with work is more important than having a high salary job. Some people argue that money is more important than happiness because money decides how much happiness a person could gain. I believe happiness rather than money is the core of life. I have found three related articles and interviewed an expert on this issue to support my opinion. Money can buy people many things, but not happiness. 
Working hard and earning a decent wage surely means people have more chances of financial success. But it doesn't necessarily bring people happiness at work. We should never put an equation mark between money and happiness. Money does represents certain level of satisfaction, but more materially. Happiness is sense of feeling from everyone's heart, so it is more mentally. Having a well-paid job brings rich physical payoff, but it doesn't really bring a happy life. Feeling happy at work is something more important, since happiness brings people passion toward what they are doing (Buzhid, 2013). Solely works for money is a machine-type way of living, and the huge workload will finally makes people feel stressful and unhappy. If people have a bad job satisfaction feeling during most of the daytime, it is hard to imagine a successful life while being out of job. People could normally bring a negative attitudes to life during off duty time. And the most usual recipients are their families and friends, who have dinner and spend the rest of the day with them. In other words, feeling unhappy toward job not only makes people stressful during the daytime but also mess up the off duty time. 
There are always voices arguing that having a high salary job is more important than being happy with work because money can help you to have a better life. These people believe that money is almighty and can satisfy all purposes. They insist that people will feel happy as long as people own the almighty trump-money, which can be used to buy whatever they want, including happiness. So people should put having a salary job as priority and once they achieve that goal, nothing needs to be worried about. I don't really agree with their opinion on this issue. I believe happiness is more important than money and money can't buy people happiness. Happiness is something that can't be exchanged. I don't even think happiness could be measured, so money is not necessarily related with happiness (At Kisson, 1992). I interviewed <name> , who has lots of knowledge and thoughts about life philosophy, last month and asked his opinion. <name> agreed with my opinion and emphasized that happiness is more important than money and dissatisfaction with job could even take over people's life. Since job takes a person most of the daytime, feeling unhappy toward job means being unhappy during the day. It is not worth to feel uncomfortable and flimsy while working in exchange for a high salary job. 
There is an interesting circle existing between work and health. The circles describes that people work hard to earn money. But the years of hard work without happiness and huge workload ruin out a person's health in the long term. Since people don't enjoy their job and solely work for money as returns. They will suffer lots of pressure mentally and gradually lose interest toward their job. The lots of pressures in turn transform to illness, either physically or mentally. The most common illness includes office-related disease, such as neck pain, low back pain and deteriorated vision. The most important cause of office-related illness is stress. Then people have to pay for medical bills to get cured using the money earned from hard work. The worse their health gets, the higher the bills tend to be. And people will have to devote to a new round hard work again for following bills. If people feel imprisoned by the large workload of daily tasks, how could people have time to enjoy happy time with families (Buzhid, 2013). On the contrary, if people enjoy what they do during daily work, they will be less likely to have illness. Even the huge workload is still there, people don't feel stressful simply because they love their jobs. Now pressure is actually much more less when people enjoy what they do. Therefore, enjoying what you do and receiving happiness is way more important than money. In fact, being happy toward job help people get rid of illness and keep a good health. 
Besides the bad feelings and office-related diseases resulting from an unhappy job, feeling stressful during the daytime leads to lower work productivity as well. Since stress has an impact on people's life, especially people's productivity and performance while working, stress management issues are being critically analyzed in modern society. Stress usually contributes to lower performance of employee because of dissatisfaction and high turnover ratio. Statistical data shows that stress, whether originating from personal life or from organization, lowers employee performance (Imtiaz and Ahmad, 2009). Therefore, we need to figure out what our passion is and follow that passion. 
In conclusion, being happy toward the daily work is more important than having a high salary job. Happiness is priceless, which can't be bought by money. Feeling unhappy not only makes people feel stressful and tired during the daytime but also ruins the off duty time with friends and families. Furthermore, a bad job experience will also increase the likelihood of office-related diseases. The precious time spent hard working and later exchanged for medical bills is a big waste. Why don't people choose a happy job in the beginning even though which means making less money? Money can buy many things, but not happiness. Being happy is always more important than holding a high salary job in life. 
Reference 
Alan, At Kisson. 1992. The Importance of Being Happy. Retrieved from 
http://www.autismtreatmentcenter.org/contents/reviews_and_articles/the_importance_of_being_happy.php 
Edukam, Buzhid. 2013. Why Being Happy at Work Should Be A Priority. Retrieved from 
http://diseasecalleddebt.com/happy-in-your-job/ 
Subha, Imtiaz., & Shakil, Ahmad. 2009. Impact Of Stress On Employee Productivity, Performance and Turnover; An Important Managerial Issue. Retrieved from 
https://www.academia.edu/309089/The_Impact_of_Stress_on_Employee_Productivity_Performance_and_Turn_over_an_important_managerial_issue 
