Is the Chinese Government Able to Solve Food Safety Problems? 
China has been suffering serious food safety problems for several years. Accidents about food safety happen almost every day. People become afraid of the living condition they are currently in so they choose to turn to the government for help. Many people believe that the government in China has enough authority on food safety problems and the government can solve any difficulty they meet with. Ironically, once a food safety accident take place, the first thing people always judge is the poor management on food issues from the government. In a word, most of the people think the government should be professional to deal with food safety problems. However, I do not think the Chinese government can manage these problems efficiently. Instead, it's more efficiently to control food safety problems by people themselves. 
The Chinese government invests billions of RMB every year to rebuild food factories with unqualified processing condition, especially for those old factories which are located in rural areas. It seems like this measure is beneficially aims at improving food quality and people's health. Nevertheless, according to Yu 2015, people who know this investment in some of those areas report that the factories there have never received the money pp. 3-5. The poor condition of food processing has never changed. After long-term investigation, it finally comes out that these money is not appropriately distributed and used by the the government officers. Some greedy officers use the money secretly to purchase expensive houses and cars for themselves. They even consume high quality food in luxury restaurants with the money. Although the government do release the policy about investing money to improve food safety problems, it is corruption that always leads to the failure. 
On the other hand, the food safety problems in China is mainly caused by lacking knowledge about hygiene and contamination. An American reporter Huehnergarth 2014, who has been living in China for 15 years, once stated that Food factories prefer to employ workers who have less knowledge because they are all cheap labors pp. 7-8. Many of those workers even do not successfully graduated from primary school. It's difficult for the Chinese government to offer education chance for everyone due to an extremely large amount of population in China. Although the government have already added classes in high schools and universities about introducing the importance of food safety, these necessary classes are easily underestimated by students and teachers. In another word, the popularization given by the government on food issues is neglected by people to a large extent because people think the food safety issues are none of their business. The government should deal with it. Whether to learn or not all depends on every individual. There is nothing to do with to improve the current situation unless the knowledge level of the citizens being raised. This is the hardest part that the government cannot have access to. 
Moreover, the Chinese government today is used to concealing the fact of many serious accidents, including food safety accidents. The reason why the government decide to do this is to calm people down. They think the public do not have to know all the details. However, once they know that how many people died in the accident or how serious the accident was, the whole society will be placed in a nervous phenomenon. In fact, it's harmful to conceal the fact because people will easily neglect the danger around them if an accident take place again, but they do not have any solution. The more wonderful utopia the government make for the public, the more dangerous situation the public will be in. People have the right to get access to the truth. For food issues, there are still many inside stories that the public do not know. They will never learn a lesson from the previous accidents and pay more attention on protecting themselves. This is another reason why the Chinese government cannot deal with the food safety problem efficiently. 
Although the Chinese government have taken every effort to deal with the serious food safety problems, things are still out of control. There are many disadvantages existing. That is why I don not think the government can deal with the food safety problems efficiently. On the contrary, it is better to switch a direction of problem solving. Why not change the situation by people themselves now that the government cannot work effectively? 
