Chinese Basketball can turn back on correct track 
Purdue University 
04/14/15 
My standpoint is that Chinese basketball can get back on the right track. In my view, as long as three problems are solved entirely, Chinese basketball can get back on the right track. These three problems are the refereeing issue, output of outstanding youth basketball players and management of Chinese basketball association. Concerning refereeing issue, I think that the government should pay money to better train a new generation of referees, and these new referees should be sent USA to be trained and developed better. Chinese Basketball Association also should make strict and detailed rules to manage the referee organization. For example, to set a very severe punishment to alert referees to regulate the behavior of their own. In the matter of elite youth basketball players, I think the key to solve this kind of problem is to create a perfect college basketball association, like the NCAA .NCAA rules prevent student-athletes from receiving money, transportation, or any extra benefit or expense allowance not authorized by the NCAA legislation. This includes benefits from an agent or any agreement to have an agent market the player's athletic ability or reputation in that sport. Laura.F (2012,March 27) . Extra Benefits: Student-Athlete Violations and NCAA, and this pretty good college basketball association can give poor college basketball players enough financial support. This association has to be just and equal. If Chinese basketball creates a nice college basketball association, not only provide a platform for gifted young guys to show themselves, but also one outstanding youth player can choose which college he wants to after graduating from high school , which demonstrates that getting high test score is not only way to good college." With regard to the management of the Chinese basketball Association, I think that the Chinese basketball association can learn some from the NBA. In the NBA , there is an organization, which is responsible for supervising the operation of the NBA, consists of a few NBA players. If this organization finds out some notorious records from management of NBA, it can apply for strike of NBA players. This independent organization can help the NBA operate regularly, So, the Chinese basketball Association can mimic the NBA. Step by step, management of the Chinese basketball association will be clean and upright. 
Some basketball reviewers think that Chinese basketball may not recover any more. The reason is that they criticize that the important factor of Chinese basketball becoming awful is Chinese basketball association had been corrupt and venal. However, reviewers make sure that it is impossible to change and rectify the current situation of the corrupt and venal Chinese basketball association. The Chinese basketball association consists of many small sections which are responsible for their own obligation, and these all small sections are deeply connected. Thus, no matter what to renovate any one section, every section will be affected and changed. Maybe, the whole Chinese basketball association will be broken drastically. What's more, due to the corruption of Chinese basketball and the current situation of Chinese education. Students are forced to only focus on high scores in school, fewer and fewer elite youth basketball players are developed by Chinese basketball. It is a vicious circle that is not easy to be gotten back on the right track. 
To sum up, as long as the Chinese Basketball Association has enough determination and courage to re-input new and professional referees for Chinese basketball association, and learn the method of NBA management, I make sure that the Chinese basketball must be successful though Chinese basketball can face so many difficulties at first. 
DEVELOPMENT OF CHINESE BASKETBALL 
Running head: Chinese Basketball can turn back on correct track 
