P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
4/27/15	 
Argument for Artificial Flavor 
	Artificial flavors are everywhere. Most of the packaged food contains artificial flavors to gain back the loss of taste due to all kinds of food processing. But is it really necessary to add artificial flavors? I think we should find new ways in food processing in order to keep the natural flavor in the food other than adding flavors to the food to gain back the loss. Because using better food processing technique could make more enjoyable and natural taste. Also, artificial flavors are bad for our health and our environment. The addition of artificial flavors are not beneficial in long term. 
	Artificial flavors give us a potential risk in our body and our environment. Artificial flavors are the mixture of chemicals that give us the specific tastes but most of the chemicals that we take in as flavors give us potential risks because our ancestor didn't naturally have them in their diet. Artificial flavors have been developed within 50 years. According to Schreiber (2014) most of the artificial sweeteners are harmful for us because the substance will cause not only obesity like real sugars but will also cause an increasing heart rate and blood pleasure when absorbed by our body. According to a long term study artificial flavors can even gave us potential risk of easily getting cancer. (Frank, Oberndorfer & Simmons, 2008)So artificial flavors are surely harming our health no matter how little the amount is. 
Artificial flavors are also harming our environment too. Depending on what chemical is produced, there will be harmful waste produced in this process. For some esters they need fluorine in the producing process. As we know, fluorine is dangerous when release in the air, it will damage the ozone sphere. According to a professor working in Purdue, <name> , the changes made by artificial flavors are serious. The production of artificial flavors just like all kinds of chemical factories are harming our environment, and artificial flavors themselves are slowly changing our diet. (Personal communication, March 25, 2015). We eat more colorful and tastier food than before. But the nutrition of the food are decreasing because the food with less nutrition usually add more artificial flavors to make them taste better. <name> believes that the most serious problems related to the produce and usage of artificial flavor is allergies. Human didn't used to be allergic to food like milk and nuts. But the changes in our diet and environment surely changed our body and there are an increasing number of people who get allergic to something. 
We can't just stop using artificial flavors because they are cheap and taste stronger than natural food. Most of the food contain artificial flavor. But we should find other ways to gain more flavor than adding artificial flavor because artificial flavors are so harmful. Everyone want "magic powder" that could make food taste good. But there are so many disadvantages of artificial flavor that we should reduce using them. We need to find new ways to entertain our toughs other than artificial flavors. 
Artificial flavors are for gaining back the lost. on the food processing and make new taste of the food. So why don't we keep the original flavors in the food and there's no need to add flavor any more. More and higher technique storage systems had been invented to provide any flavor and nutrition lost. Now, companies are releasing more and more new refrigerator that can reduce the lost due to the storage. One example is Samsung Energy Star 28 refrigerator. This fridge uses new temperature and humidity control system that could lower the sublimation of water and flavor contained in the food. This is one way of using high technique to gain more flavor and more nutrition. New cooking system may also heat the food in a more suitable ways to prevent the flavor from losing. This is more beneficial than just adding artificial flavors because using better storing and cooking system will give us not only a better taste but also a meal that contains lots of nutrition. Everyone wants their food to be tasty. Instead of harmed by artificial flavors when consuming tasty food, better food processing gives us new ways on eating more tasty healthy food. 
Artificial flavors have its benefit of strong taste, easy to produce and stable. It's now a big part of the food industry. But we should limit for artificial flavors because all its dangerous potential risks. Better food processing conditions is one way to let food taste better and healthier without using artificial flavor. No one wants to get in to trouble just because consuming food. Finding new process to get better taste is more important than just adding artificial flavor. 
Reference 
Frank GK, Oberndorfer TA, Simmons AN, et al. Sucrose activates human taste pathways differently from artificial sweetener. Neuroimage. 2008 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18096409 
Baraniuk C(29 August 2014)BBC - Future - The secrets of fake flavours 
http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20140829-the-secrets-of-fake-flavours 
Argument on Artificial flavor 3 
