Since the first i Phone came out, the screen has been getting larger and larger. However, there have been no technical revolution on cell phone batteries. So the battery-life has always been a problem for all smartphone designers around the world. There has been much debate recently about what should be done to improve the user-experience of smartphones with the limitation of battery-life. Some say that the manufacturers should put a large battery into the phone in order to make the phone last longer while using. Others think that the designer should sacrifice some battery-life and make the smartphone thinner and lighter, in order to have a better hands-on experience. I think the designers should focus on improvements of hands-on experience by making the phone thinner and lighter. 
A larger battery can provide a longer using time. Most people would like their phone to last a whole day without charging. However, not every phone can do that. For example, the new i Phone6 has a battery of 1810 m Ah, which can provide about 12 hours of normal use. This is actually an ideal estimation provided by the Apple Officials[DC1]. As college students, most of us are always on our phone, either texting or dialing. With this kind of heavy use, maybe the phone could last about 6 to 8 hours. It sounds like a decent amount. However, if you want to go to a party or a meeting in the evening, your phone will probably be dead. On the other hand, this could hardly be a problem for us colleges students. Plug-ins can be anywhere on campus. You can even plug it into your laptop to charge your phone. Therefore, it is not crucial to have long battery life for us. 
The width and the weight of the phone can seriously affect the user-experiences. Moto X, one of the best smartphone in the market, has been regarded as the most "comfortable" smartphone that has ever been made. According to the designers of that phone, they collected over a million sets of human hands' data(shape, size, figer length) in order to shape the phone just the way our hands hold things. It has a curved backside. The thickness of the phone is different everywhere on this phone. Most importantly, the slimmest part on the phone is only 3. 8 mm[DC2]. That, the extreme slimness, is the crucial part of the phone that made it the most "comfortable" phone in the world. There is another example, the new i Phone 6. Apple has been trying to make their phone as thin as possible. Their phone is getting thinner and thinner. Til this year, the i Phone 6 is only 7. 1 mm in thickness and 129 grams in weight. Even with the imperfect "stick-out" camera, the customers still adore the new i Phone and regard it as the best phone ever. After all, even with the comparatively small battery, the new i Phone triggered the market with its revolutionary thickness and weight. 
Furthermore, a large phone with a large battery would have more parts than the thinner phones in order to fulfill the inner spaces. This will result in energy waste and battery consumption. For example, the Samsung Galaxy Note 3. It has a eye-ball tracking device which will be constantly searching for your eye-ball and scroll[DC3] down pages as you read. This is a very energy-consuming service and the feedback is not always so well. Sometimes it does not work at all. At the same time, the Note 3 allows you to wave above the phone to pick up a phone call. The motion detector turns on every time there is a phone call. It will also result in a waste of energy. All these parts can be removed and in exchange, we can have a thinner and lighter phone with a smaller battery. 
Last but not least, the programmers have been working extremely hard on saving energy when the phone is in use. For example, most smartphone will turn off part of the central--processing unit when the phone is not processing tasks in order to save power. These parts will only be turned on when they are needed. 
However, these methods might not be enough. The clever programmers have thought of other ideas. For instance, the designers for Samsung Galaxy S5 came up with some great ideas. When the battery remaining is less than 15%, the screen will be automatically turned black and white, and only the dialing and texting units will keep running. This way, the cell phone can survive another 20 hours with the most basic functions---calling and texting. 
In a nutshell, the cell phone designers should focus more on improving the hands-on experience rather than sacrificing it for battery life. Without the wonderful touch and look, using the phone will be somehow insufferable and tiring. Maybe it will be a good way to drive people away from phone and face the reality, but it is absolutely not the result a smartphone company would want. 
CITE: cite your source in parentheses. 
CITE: apply throughout 
VF 
