Discrimination and Chinese females' suicide rate 
Suicide rate never stop increasing. In all over the world, most countries 's female's suicide rate is lower than males. But in China the rate is different. I think, some particular concepts in China intrigue this phenomenon. Before I jump to the relationship between discrimination and females' suicide rate. I'd like to claim that discrimination is toward both males and females. Whereas, it harms females more directly. In China, this discrimination exists in thousands of years. Even in recent years, there are more individuals assert that discrimination is wrong, it still exists. 
In some region, to be a female is a stigma. Because one is a female, she cannot do what she like, but have to obey her male family members. This discrimination exists in especially poor area. Females are considered to be inventories but not human beings. According to Hyeon Jung Lee's research Lee, 2014, if someone would like to marry her, the spouse's family should pay a lot of money to the brides' family as a offset to the girl's family's loss. As a result, if a female commits suicide, others' will recognize her death as a loss of property. Though his research, we can see that females in some area are face extremely unequal treat. Actually, gendercide also exist in Chinese society for thousands of years. Until recent years, scholars find that there will be bachelor boom in China, people start to think about the effect of gendercide. However, most of them only focus on that gendercide causes males cannot find spouse and males have to pay more money to a girl's family. 
Another problem that put stress of females is glass ceiling. Trace back to 1960s, it's abnormal for a female to go to work, a work female often has to face harsh criticism from others. Even now, male labors are more than female labors. In China there are still some people think that the most important thing in a woman's life is marriage but nut career. As a result, many company prefer male employees than females, and they consider married females to be the worst option. Human resource department really believe females have to pay more attention to family issues so they cannot work as hard as male employees. And if a female is pregnant, some firms even will enforce her to quit. And it is harder for a female to get a promotion. Because if a female get promotion comparatively fast, people often believe that she has affair with her boss. In order to avoid rumors, a manager usually won't promote a female very fast. 
Some people may argue that some policies protect females than males, so females face less pressure than males. Actually, some policies seem to protect females, but in fact harm females right. For example, in China, some bridegrooms have to pay a large amount of money to brides' family, it seems that females can gain money form marriage, but in fact, brides' family would not give this money to their daughter, they would use this money to pay for their son or nephews marriages. Females cannot get any benefit from this process, and when males find they cannot pay that much money, they would say that Chinese females are all material girls. Another important point is that sometimes laws and policies do protect females' right but they are not effectively enough. For example, domestic violence is illegal in China, but police and individuals pay little attention to this kind of crime. The case of Dong Shanshan is a tragedy that caused by domestic violence. Dong Shanshan's husband tortured her during marriage and threatening her to kill her parents. During this time, Dong Shanshan called police for eight times, but police never helped her. At the end, the perpetrator killed Dong Shanshan. Dong Shanshan is dead, but the murderer was sentenced to the jail for only six and a half years. 
In conclusion, discrimination is a key factor that causes females have to face more pressure than males. And a more stressful group is always more suicidal. Stigma, glass ceiling and some inappropriate law deepen discrimination toward females. I know it is hard to eliminate discrimination, it's hard to work against the mainstream of a society, but everyone is equal, females also should fess less criticisms like males. If the society can be more tolerant, if the law can be more effective, females would not have to face so much stress. 
Bibliography 
Lee, H. J. 2014. Fearless Love, Death for Dignity: Female Suicide and Gendered Subjectivity in rural North China. China Journal, 2-4. 
