P5D3 
04/25/2015 
Long Distance Romantic Relationship: Too Hard to be Maintained? 
With technology developing, people get more chances to work, study or travel at a place far from their hometowns. Once you leave home and someone is waiting for you at home, the relationship between you and that person becomes long-distance. Many people may think that it is hard to keep a long distance relationship, especially for romantic one which requires a lot of energy and time. Some couples even deeply fear being separated at different places, so they break up before one of them leaves. However, I believe that long distance romantic relationship should be considered as normal and usual as kinship or friendship. The suggestion I provide is to treat your partner and the relationship as usual instead of being indifferent or overreacting. 
The first reason that I do not regard long distance romantic relationship as an overly tough experience is because opportunities for geographically separated couples to communicate with each other are almost the same as the closer one. As ways to communicate can have significant effect on a relationship, it has become more convenient to make a cross-country call through Skype or post a photo to share feelings on Facebook. According to Jiang and Hancock (2013)1, long distance couples report significantly fewer interactions every day and have more intermediate media than geographically close partners. Nonetheless, they also find these two groups do not differ significantly in reported relationship satisfaction or relational uncertainty. Long distance couples use intermediate media to chat, send photos or update each other's daily routine as geographically close couples do. With video chats, a couple separated at two different places can even make more "face-to-face" conversations without spending plenty of money and time to take a serious visit. As Suzanne Phillips says in "Love in Long-Distance Relationships"2, couples should exchange the timeline, the feelings and the expectations. Updated technology has allowed people to travel to another place with less time as well as to communicate with other persons with higher efficiency. Long distance couples should take advantages of high-efficiency transportations and interpersonal media nowadays rather than staying at the same place and keep complaining. 
Secondly, stability is also one of the reasons why long distance relationship should be taken as easily as other relationships. In a previous relational interview with <name> who specializes in academic field of long distance relationship, he mentioned that the break-up rate of these two kinds of romantic relationships are quite similar. <name> also emphasized that people who have experienced a long distance relationship tend to cherish a feeling more than people who have not, which makes long distance relationship somewhat more stable. If one is in a long distance relationship, he/she may have experience that people around him/her keep worrying about the stability, which does cause his/her awareness to pay more attention to preserve the relationship. However, geographically close couples seem more normal. Sometimes no "other people" warn them to devote more time and energy into their romantic connections so they forget it, which can also dilute and disrupt a geographically close relationship. Therefore, referred to Laura Stafford and Daniel J. Canary's research3, types of maintain strategies are similar, yet people in different kinds of relationship should learn how to behave properly and correctly. Maintaining a relationship neither sound much easier for geographically close couples nor too hard for long distance couples. 
People should consider long distance romantic relationship as a common relationship nowadays since it is getting prevalent. According to some researches and articles mentioned above, we also know that opportunities for long distance couples and geographically close couples are quite similar due to the development of communication technology and interpersonal media. The other reason is that stability of long distance relationship is somewhat even higher than geographically close relationship. Furthermore, high expectation of long distance couples to their partners, which is once a major concern, has been proved that it can benefit intimacy to some extent. Therefore, problems found in long distance relationship also exist in other types of relationships. People need to take a closer look into long distance relationship and find a normal way to deal with it. 
1http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jcom.12029/epdf 
2http://www.pbs.org/thisemotionallife/blogs/love-long-distance-relationships 
3http://spr.sagepub.com/content/8/2/217.full.pdf+html 
4http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jcom.12029/epdf 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
