Esther Chung 
Humor and laughter have become our old friends who have been staying with us regardless of where we are at. Because of this nonperishable existence of laughter and humor, we often forget to notice and appreciate the benefits of those in our lives. If we look around, we can realize humor and laughter often acts as catalysts that boost up our performance ability and make us to produce fruitful results. As a result, we should cooperate laughter and humor to our circumstances in order have fertile results. 
One of the situations that require laughter and humor can be educational circumstances. It can surely be thought that at educational places, the mood should be serene and serious, not jocular and hyper. However, ironically laughter and humor are crucial in those circumstances in order to make students more focused and productive, and also make teachers easier to teach as a result. In the article "Did you Hear the one About the Boolean Operators? Incorporating Comedy Into library Instruction," written by Kristin Trefts and Sarah Blakeslee, the authors talk about how they are going to incorporate humor into their library instruction. The authors, who are librarians shows the power of humor and laughter particularly in education and try to cast humor onto their library instruction to prevent people from getting dull; "Most librarians, and their students, would agree that a library instruction session that conveyed important information and was funny would be 100 times better than the normal ``dry'' instruction lecture." (Blakeslee & Trefts, 2000, p.369) Thus, the librarians analyze and study humorous stories and try to apply those to their instructions. For another evidence that can endorse my idea, I interviewed my Biology 121 professor, and he stated that he often utilize humor during his lecture, and he can see his students focusing more without falling asleep. Laughter and humor truly help educational circumstances work better by not making the mood dull but cognizant, and by making students more focused and productive as a consequence. 
Not only in educational circumstances, but also at workplaces, laughter and humor act as critical factors. Humor and laughter at workplace makes workers have better teamwork through their intimate bonds, created by humor and laughter, and lead to productive outcomes. In the article titled "Humor-an empowerment tool for the 1990s" by Jacqueline Miller, it is clearly showed how humor contributes to the workplace. This article says that having humors in the workplace promote the good relationships between workers; Miller (1996) states, "Above all, it includes having a positive sense of humor to be able to muddle through the many issues a team will face on the path toward goal achievement." (p.18) Just like the idea this article is elaborating, humor eases tension between workers and promote smooth relationships and working conditions. As a result, humor is a crucial factor that we should be familiar with at work place because it leads us to strong and intimate teamwork; "The team members need to identify a sense of humor as an integral part of human communication."(Miller, 1996, p.18) Also, when I was interviewing my Biology professor, he shared his idea saying that he works at college of science in Purdue, and through humor and jokes, he could break tensions between workers and have better teamwork which would lead to satiable outcomes. Just like what I stated, laughter help the workplace to produce fruitful results. 
Surprisingly, the benefit of humor also flows upon the medical field. Humor makes people healthier and make the patients feel better and overcome the pain. This idea surprised me because I didn't think that laughter would make us healthier and overcome diseases. In the article "Laughter Therapy for Patients with Cancer" written by Lynn Erdman RN, MN, OCN, how laughter aids the patients be healthy is clearly shown. According to this article laughter indeed has some medical benefits; "A hearty belly laugh doesn't just feel good-the literature also cites its identifiable medical benefits. "(Lynn Erdman RN, MN, OCN 1994, p.55). More specifically, this article says laughter decreases heart rate, blood pressure and muscle tension, which makes us healthy. Also, stated by the article, dopamines, which are chemical substances that are released when we laugh, release pain. Again, I've never heard of these benefits of laughter before, so as I was reading this article, I got truly enthralled by the idea, and realized that laughter already became essential factor in medical field already. 
While a lot of different benefits of laughter exist, negative effects of laughter exist as well. For example, inappropriate jokes can make the situations worse and make others affronted. This is not only make others offended but also make your reputation go down without limit which would make the outcome worse. Also, just like what my biology professor stated during interview, too much jokes can destroy hierarchy. For example, if the boss of a company makes too much jokes with his workers, the workers will feel too comfortable with the boss and respect him less. Just like these examples, disparaging parts of laughter and humor evidently exist. However, if we regulate the use of humor, and be careful with the negative consequences and avoid those, we can clearly use laughter to make the situation better. 
Laughter and humor clearly play decisive roles in our lives through their benefits that we need. Through humor and laughter, out performance abilities go up, and therefore, produce better results. Indeed, negative effects of laughter clearly exist, but those are avoidable by acknowledging and being cautious with those. All of the words that I stated, lead to the idea that we should cooperate humor and laughter into our circumstances to have advantageous results. 
Kristin Trefts &Sarah Blakeslee, (2000),"Did you hear the one about the Boolean operators? Incorporating comedy into library instruction", Reference Services Review, Vol. 28 Iss 4 pp. 369- 378 
Jacqueline Miller, (1996),"Humor # an empowerment tool for the 1990s", Empowerment in Organizations, Vol. 4 Iss 2 pp. 16- 21 
Lynn Erdman RN, MN, OCN (1994) "Laughter Therapy for Patients with Cancer", Journal of Psychosocial Oncology, 11:4, 55-67, DOI: 
