College Education in Malaysia and USA 
The debate on whether students should study abroad has become a hot topic among Malaysians. As the number of graduates increases every year, the competition between graduates in the job market seeking for job becomes more competitive. The competition among graduates has led to students studying abroad to seek for better tertiary education because they believe that an international certification will provide them with a competitive edge in the job market. This topic is significant to the readers because they can know more about some of the comparisons between college education in Malaysia and USA as well as the benefits of studying abroad. 
	Back in Malaysia, I enrolled in the American Degree Program in Taylor's University before transferring to Purdue University. American Degree Program was a transfer program offering students two years of a four-year Bachelors degree program. In Taylor's University, classes are held in small classrooms with 30 students instead of large lecture halls because the enrollment for each semester is about 200 students only. Thus, students have the opportunity to be more involved in classroom activities such as discussing homework problems with the lecturer after class. While at Purdue University, classes are usually held in large lecture halls with more than 150 students. Students have fewer opportunities to interact with the lecturer as there are too many students in the class. 
	After a semester in Purdue University, I realized the some of the significance of the education system in USA. The education system in USA is more multidiscipline and flexible where I was able to have an even distribution of technical and non-technical classes. Although I am majoring in Mechanical Engineering, I am required to take a few general elective subjects which widen my perspective in knowledge as a student. As a student in Purdue University, I also have the freedom to choose my major whenever I want. I believe the freedom in choosing major allows the student to select and change to the major they want. Education system being multidiscipline means that the grades of the subjects are evenly distributed to assignments, participations and exams. This approach encourages students to be more active in classroom activities by interacting with classmates and lecturers. On the other hand, subjects are very exam-oriented where most of the points are from exams and quizzes. 
	The culture and tradition of tertiary education in USA differs from Malaysia from different perspectives. According to Huiyee Tan, a past student from Purdue University whom I interviewed, studying abroad makes her experience a culture shock. She said that being in Purdue University allows her to step out of her comfort zone and gain new exposure whether being education system or culture. In Purdue University, the professors encourage active learning where students will learn through interaction between classmates through class discussions. This learning approach allows students to learn better and improve in communication skills. Huiyee also mention that the diversity in culture in Purdue University allow her to learn more about other cultures. 
	Being in Purdue University also made me understand the importance of hands-on experience through design and research projects. Hands-on experience is vital for engineering students because students are able to use their textbook knowledge in real world applications. These valuable experiences prepare students better for the working world because they will be more familiar with hands-on work. Being part of design or research projects teams also make them more team-oriented. Students are also able to develop their leadership, communication and interpersonal skills because they will interact with their project members while working on the projects. Companies in the USA are actively seeking for students with technical experience because they realized the positive impact of technical experience and their good attributes on the companies' business. Companies in Malaysia only emphasized on students' GPA while hiring which results in students being passive outside of class. They place priority on getting high CGPA while neglecting other activities. 
	In conclusion, I believe studying abroad is beneficial for students because of the hands-on opportunities, richly diverse culture, a good education system and learning approach which will prepare students better for the future. There are a lot of bad critiques and comments about student studying abroad ranging from bad Western culture influence and difficulties in adapting to new environment. Through this project, I hope to let the readers know some of the advantages of studying abroad and answer their critiques about studying abroad based on my personal experience and information gathered through an interview of Huiyee Tan. 
