ENGL 106-i 
Final Draft 
December 9, 2015 
The Inevitable Truth about the SAT 
The discussion regarding the purpose and effectiveness of the SAT has practically existed as long as the standardized test itself. Students, parents and educators have always had their different opinions when it comes to testing a broad range of high school seniors. While some argue that the SAT does an exemplary job on testing students, others, like myself, argue that the test has more disadvantages than benefits. 
The primary purpose of standardized testing, as its name suggests, is to measure students under the same questions and material. Universities can't rely solely on GPA since it can greatly vary depending the school, country or even grading system. In that case, standardized testing is a great method to compare students that come from different backgrounds and learning environments (<name>), personal communication, October 20, 2015). Based on some famous scholars such as Robert Barro, there are other advantages of the SAT that are worth pointing out. Barro (2001) suggests why universities should keep using the SAT. Although numerous people have argued that the SAT is ineffective for evaluating applicants, studies from the National Postsecondary Student Aid Study (NPSAS) show that admission test scores strongly predict college grades. On the other hand, for those that believe the SAT is a disadvantage to minorities, test scores have the same predictive power within an ethnic group as they do in the overall population. This is why Robert J. Barro, a professor of economics at Harvard University, states that colleges should keep the SAT since it is a good predictor of grades in college and wages after graduation without being a disadvantage depending on gender or ethnicity. 
Although the SAT has some advantages worth mentioning, there are many more disadvantages that make us doubt about the test and whether some changes should be done. The flaws of the SAT can be separated into three major categories: it doesn't include certain subjects, it is biased against low income families, and it doesn't provide information on who is more intelligent or will be more successful. 
The SAT tests students only in math, reading, and writing sections. It doesn't take into consideration subjects regarding liberal arts or science, which means students that are strong in them aren't able to show what they know. <name>, who are freshman students from <place>, described how they felt they could've scored higher if they were tested on subjects regarding their majors (<name>, personal communication, October 22, 2015). Unlike other famous standardized tests, the SAT doesn't include subjects such as chemistry, which is fundamental for certain careers. 
On the other hand, the SAT is a big disadvantage for low income families. Bob Schaeffer, the director of the National Center for Pair and Open Testing, says "There is still a strong, direct relationship between family income and test scores" (Pannoni, 2014). Since the SAT is a test that can be studied for, families with a higher income tend to have tutors and classes for the children in order to increase test scores and stay ahead of the competition. Likewise, families that have low income are not able to afford prep-classes and are at a great disadvantage at getting high SAT scores (Buchmann, 2006). 
On the last category, the SAT is clearly not able to prove who is more intelligent or who will be more successful. It is a test that can be studied for and that does not measure how well students will do in college. Students can become familiar with the test, memorize vocabulary words, and in just a few months they can significantly improve their scores. Just as a student from Haverford School described it, "The simple fact that a score can be altered through learning certain techniques and becoming familiar with the test exposes its imperfection and gives reason to doubt its overall effectiveness (Antanavicius, 2011)" Educational institutions around the United States are even beginning to question whether the SAT is actually a good tool to measure students. In fact, the University of California- Berkeley decided to cut the SAT in the admission process because there was no direct correlation between freshman year grades and SAT scores (Chan, 2012). 
After thorough research about the SAT and its contributions, it is clear that standardized testing and specifically the SAT has some benefits worth recognizing. Nonetheless, the amount of disadvantages this test brings far exceeds the amount of advantages it does. The test doesn't include certain subjects, it is a disadvantage for low-income families and it does not show who is smarter or who will be more successful in college. Therefore, potential solutions to this problem would be using subject tests more often or putting more weight on high school transcripts for admission processes. 
