Does rock n roll only have negative effects to the teens? 
Purdue University 
13/4/2015 
Introduction 
Charlie Watts once said, "Rock n roll has probably given more than it is taken." Rock n roll is a genre of music, which is very popular around the world. Rock music originated in the 1950s, and the evolved rapidly. There are many people believed rock music is an expression of love, peace and freedom, especially in the 1950s and 1960s, and many people believe rock n roll is all about sex, violence, and the drugs. "A generation of young teenagers collectively rebelled against the music their parents loved" ("America Rocks and Rolls," n.d.) In the 1990s, in the era of grunge and glam metal, the negative effects of rock n roll became very strongly. Guns n roses, which is one of the most famous rock band in the world, the members of this band had very libertine personal life. Nirvana, another famous band in the 90s, and the leader of Nirvana, Kurt Cobain, also had very morbid personal life. Furthermore, as well as the American rock bands, many British bands like Oasis, The Rolling Stone also has negative effects to the society. Does the rock n roll have negative effects to society and world? 
Content 
"What would rock n roll be without ambition, craziness, danger, and fun?" This is a quote from Pete Wentz who is a member of band "Fall Out Boy". Everything has its own reason. Most super rock stars are very crazy, and they always do a lot of crazy things both on and off stage. For example, Axl Rose, leader and singer of band Guns n roses. A lot of people think Guns n roses bring the dark side of rock n roll to the world. In my idea, it was very reasonable, because Axl Rose was bad tempered when he was young. He was also a drug user and alcoholic. Gun n roses had millions fans around the world after they came out, and teenagers like to mimic, so they started to wear long hair, wear weird clothes, and smoke. Teenagers were immature, and they just always imitate superficial stuff of their idols. Some of them believed that they were talented as well as Axl Roses, Slash and Izzy Stradlin, so they dropped out school, picked up guitar and formed bands. As result, most of them cannot even afford their basic life when they grew up. As well as gun n roses, Nirvana, which is also a sensational rock band in the 90s, and this band also had many negative influence to the teens. Teenagers started to have Kurt Cobain's "grunge" life, which means dirty and passive. Also as this website wrote, "And without Cobain as a poster boy for disaffected youth, our relationship with Fred Durst would be a lot healthier." (Clements, 2014) These are the most common reasons, which people think rock n roll has negative effects to the teens and society. For me, I do not agree with it. 
	There is a very strong claim levied against rock music is that rock n roll makes the teens violent, because many aggressive subgenres of rock music such as punk and metal are really violent, which can be shown on their lyrics and music videos. "A 1997 study at Stanford University has shown that in fact the opposite may be true, and that youth may form an antagonistic stance toward violence because of its portrayal in rock music and associated music videos. Many teens are turned off by violence after they are faced with the reality of it and are therefore less likely to engage in violent acts." (Godard, n.d.) You cannot judge a book by its cover. Many members of death metal bands looks very horrible as well as their songs, but in fact, many of them are introvert and gentle. 
	"You might say "Art is in a constant state of change, so nobody can really pin down what it is."" (Esaak, n.d.) Art is subjective. Different people can have totally different views to an art form. Many rock songs are very loud and aggressive, so I know a lot of people who use rock music as cordial to wake their soul up. "Some teens may even be positively effect by rock and roll music that is labeled violent or aggressive simply because it puts him in a good mood." (Godard, n.d.) When I interviewed Professor Michael Morrison who is specializing in 19th century U.S American Political History, he also said rock n roll was an expression of love, peace and freedom, and those were positive things. (Morrison,2015) 
Conclusion 
	Rock n roll is a type of art, it is a genre of music, and rock n roll is also a thought, which can be peaceful, brave and aggressive. Although rock n roll is a comparably aggressive form of music, it expressed the freedom to the world, which is the most precise and positive thing in the world. 
	Godard, R. (n.d.). The Effects of Rock & Roll on Teens. Retrieved from http://www.ehow.com/info_8396351_effects-rock-roll-teens.html 
	Esaak, S. (n.d.). What is Art? (The Definitition of Art). Retrieved from http://arthistory.about.com/cs/reference/f/what_is_art.htm 
Clements, J. (2014, April 4). Has Kurt Cobain had any influence on music today?. Retrieved from http://www.fasterlouder.com.au/features/38961/Has-Kurt-Cobain-had-any-influence-on-music-today 
America Rocks and Rolls. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.ushistory.org/us/53d.asp 
DOES ROCK N ROLL ONLY HAVE NEGATIVE EFFECTS? 
3 
Running Head: DOES ROCK N ROLL ONLY HAVE NEGATIVE EFFECTS? 
1 
