P5D1 
16 April 2015 
Argumentative essay 
	One day, I was talking to a friend who is a smoker in a process of quitting smoking, and found her holding a pen-looking object between her fingers and inhaling deeply and exhaling a great volume of smoke without smell. I asked what the object is, and she answered that it is an e-cigarette, which is another type of smoking methods, but helps reducing the amount of nicotine intake, eventually leading to smoking cessation. Then, for seconds, I thought it would not be harmful to the body so everyone can smoke without taking health risks. Contrary to my thought, my friend failed to stop smoking but still asserts that smoking substitutes other than e-cigarettes are better than smoking regular cigarettes. However, I believe that smokers should not use cigarette substitutes to help smoking cessation because they are only going to harm and bring more disadvantages than benefits. 
	One type of smoking that most people think is safe is hookah because they are made with herbs or fruits and filtered through water. But in fact, they are more harmful than smoking cigarettes (Providence Health Plan). "According to a World Health Organization advisory, a typical one-hour session of hookah smoking exposes the users to 100 to 200 times the volume of smoke inhaled from a single cigarette" ("Types of Tobacco," n.d.). Smoking hookah will give smokers the worse influence on health. Just like regular cigarettes, they still contain tar, carbon monoxide and are nicotine addictive. But what's more about hookah is that smokers can share and spread hepatitis, herpes, flu or other contagious diseases from using the same mouth pipe with others (Providence Health Plan). 
	The type of smoking product that is most frequently recognized and done to induce smoking cessation is e-cigarettes. The reason why so many people think that they are better than cigarettes is that they are advertised to be safe to use and aid in quitting smoking. However, this is not true. In terms of safe to health, inhaling vapor with foreign substance into the lungs can damage mouth and throats besides the lungs. There are fears of fire and explosion of the batteries and vapor initiator. Also, just like regular cigarettes, e-cigarettes are used to deliver nicotine, which will still make hard to quit smoking. What makes e-cigarettes worse to guide smoking cessation is that it mimics the hand-to-mouth motion of regular smoking cigarettes. Therefore, they cannot be used to help quit smoking (Providence Health Plan). 
After all these opinions in mind, a contradicting research is conducted by Siegel, Tanwar and Wood to investigate the effectiveness of e-cigarettes for people trying to cease smoking cigarettes. Through this research it was found that more than half of respondents reported that they reduced nicotine use, and nearly half of them said they have tried quitting smoking for a period of time after trying e-cigarettes. Another thing they found was that only 26.8% of smokers who were not using e-cigarettes during the time of smoking cessation, succeeded in quitting smoking whereas the success percentage for e-cigarette users was 34.5%. However, there are limitations to this study. The respondents cannot represent all smokers who have tried e-cigarettes and their responses are not entirely trustworthy because there is no biological and chemical proof that they have stopped smoking (Siegel et al, 2011). 
All the different types of smoking products described above have similarities. Just like cigarettes, they all can be addictive with nicotine, contain many harmful chemicals and can actually prevent smokers from quitting because they will make the smokers engage in other smoking behaviors. Therefore, all of them are not good substitutes for cigarettes. Instead of those, exercising, drinking lots of fluids, mediating and relying on nicotine therapy will be the best substitutes for cigarettes. 
Reference 
Providence Health Plan 
https://healthplans.providence.org/fittogether/find-your-fit/prevention/quit-tobacco/smoking-alternatives/ 
Types of Tobacco Products. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.ct.gov/dph/lib/dph/hems/tobacco/tobacco_products.pdf 
Siegel, M.B., Tanwar, K. L., & Wood, K. S. (2011). Electronic Cigarettes As a Smoking-Cessation Tool: Results from an Online Survey. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 40(4), 472-475. 
