Technology Improves Teaching and Learning
Heidi-Hayes Jacobs, the president of Curriculum Designers, said, "Teachers need to integrate technology seamlessly into the curriculum instead of viewing it as an add-on, an afterthought, or an event." I think it is true because as we all know, technology is developing rapidly these years, and it is also applied into process of learning a lot. We have Blackboard in universities. We also have Coursera, a website which offer online courses from famous universities, to learn through Internet. We can even use i Pad or smartphone to learn almost everywhere at any time. Some people think that the electronics are not good for learning because some of the students are addicted to the video games. I don't think so because using the electronics for study properly help students a lot. For example, students tend to understand contents of courses better and teachers have higher efficiency when they use appropriate kind of technologies. From my personal experience, the view of an interviewee and opinions from some research papers, I conclude that integrating new technologies in the classroom and during the learning process have good impact on the quality of learning and teaching.
From my own experience, using technology when studying improved my learning efficiency. I once used i Pad for studying in my high school. When I went from school back to home, I used my i Pad to made mind map to organize the new knowledge I learned in the class. I also made up the notes with i Pad so that I could reuse it any time in the future. Someone thought that made electronic notes at home was a waste of time, but I thought the notes that I had in my i Pad were useful and helpful. When my classmates worked hard before exams organizing their notes and reviewing the content of the textbook, the notes in the i Pad saved a lot of time for me. I could review efficiently because the notes were well organized with clear logic in my i Pad. When using traditional notebooks, it was truly difficult to add something or remove something and keep the notes in the same order. The new technologies help students learn more efficiently.
My interviewee almost held the same opinion with me. She also stated that educators made effort on integrating technology into classroom because the huge potential of the new technologies. For teachers, it was reality to use technologies in the teaching process; for example, professors in universities must use Black Board to show students contents and the grades of the course. Training teachers to use new kind of technologies or tools took a lot of time, mentioned by my interviewee, but new technologies like Black Board could easily generate and find data of an exam or a student, which was far more timesaving than the traditional paper work to record grades. Students that were motivated by technologies or use a lot of electronics out of classroom would have a much better learning experience when using technologies in the classroom. Teachers could use software to make 3D models or play videos that help students understand the course content better. <name> <name> my interviewee, mentioned that some students were not used to new technologies and it would take them a lot of time to get used to the technologies, and some of students could be scared and so anxious when using technology in the classroom. It's true that training students is also time-consuming, but we know that technology is developing. The new generation of students has a higher acceptance of technology and on the other hand, the technologies are now user-friendlier which means easier for students and teachers to use. We can conclude that new technologies improve the quality of learning because the students can understand the knowledge better.
In the research papers, the researchers agreed with the positive affect of using of technology. They believed that there were various opportunities to apply technology to the classroom, and new technologies helped both teachers and students in the learning process. Manuguerra and Petocz (2011) focused on usage of i Pad in the classroom. They found that the videos and other multi-media materials on i Pad get the positive feedback from students because they make the definitions and theories in the textbooks more vividly. As an example of high-tech devices, i Pad improved the interaction between students and teachers. Although Emhamed and Krishnan (2011) mentioned in their article that educators were facing the challenge that lack of time and money to integrate new technologies into classrooms, the teachers they investigated mostly had the positive opinion towards using technologies. Technology let them teach more efficiently. Technology led the transformation of the education field. Teachers began to use different technologies to meet the demands of the different disciplines and different students. In the classroom, different applications were used for better teaching and learning experience, which led to better understanding of knowledge.
In conclusion, the most important advantage of integrating technologies in the classroom is improving the efficiency of the teachers and students, and technologies can also promote the understanding of students. Although we have different challenges to apply technologies to the classrooms such as lack of money to buy high-tech devices, lack of time to train teachers and students, I still believe that with the developing of the technology, the usage of technology in the classroom will be more various in the future. Using technologies in classroom is a trend of education field, and it can be proved that technologies improve the process of learning.
Citations:
Dorothy, E. L., & Sirkka, L. J. (1995). The Use of Information Technology to Enhance Management School Education: A Theoretical View. MIS Quarterly, Vol. 19, No. 3, Special Issue on IS Curricula and Pedagogy, 265-291.
Maurizio, M., & Peter, P. (2011). Promoting Student Engagement by Integrating New Technology into Tertiary Education: The Role of the i Pad. Asian Social Science, Vol. 7, No. 11, 61-65.
Ebraiek, D. M. E., & Sarojani, D. K. (2011). Investigating Libyan teachers' attitude towards integrating technology in teaching English in Sebha secondary schools. Academic Research International, Vol. 1, Issue 3, 182-192.
