Balance between entertainment and education 
Purdue University 
Both entertainment and education are necessary in our daily life, especially for college students, like us. There is no doubt about the importance of education. On the other hand, we need to relax. We need to know what is happening around us. We need to keep in touch with our friends. That means, our life will not be complete if we take away either one of them. However, having too much entertainment can be harmful to us. Analyzing the materials provided in my previous paper, I believe that we need to reduce the time spent on recreation in order to prevent the harm and we need to do helpful things instead, like playing sports and after-school activities. 
First of all, I would like to mention that spending too much time on entertainment can ruin both our body and mind. Known as one of the most popular entertainment, video games are picked as an example to illustrate my point. According to Cregal (2012), "8 Ways Video Games Are Bad For Your Health" released by the Health Center, the author has listed 9 kinds of disadvantages of playing computer games, which are: muscle pain, seizures, obesity, aggressive behavior, poor grades in school, lack of vitamin D, changes in physical appearance, attention problems. Those kinds of weaknesses clearly show the bad effects on body and mind. According to Akhtar (2013), "What is your ratio" released by the Department of Labor, the Dept. of Labor has tracked two types of activities: "Educational Activities" and "Watching television". I refer to the statistics and analyze how these two activities compared. In the year 2013, each freshman in college would have spent 1 hr. /day on study and 2. 6 hrs. /day on watching television. That is a ratio of 2.6:1. This survey released by Department of Labor clearly shows how serious the problem is. Referring to another research published by CNET News.com, we learn how video games hurt brain development. In the research, scientists claim that video games can help to develop our vision but games are helpless to develop the others. So we should spend less time on recreation in order not to hurt our mental and physical development. 
Secondly, reducing time spent on recreation and spending more time on education has significant effect on our grades. According to Inui (2014), "More time spent on television and video games, less time spent on studying?" the researchers in Japan wanted to find out the main determinant of grade and they did a lot of research about that. During the research, they wanted to find out if there is an explicit relationship between time spent on school work and the grade of the student. They chose 500 students in high school, and calculated their grades with different hours spent on study. The result was that every additional minute of time used on study helped to increase students' grades by about 0. 15 standard deviation. 0. 15 seems to be little; however, if you spend one more hour on study, you grades will increase by 9 standard deviation. After considering result of the research, I can conclude that the time spent on study is the main factor which affects study. 
However, someone may argue that entertainment like video games are not all bad. They like to mention that a number of positive influences can also be connected to computer games. Admittedly, video games help to improve our hand-eye coordination and some parts of our brain. However, there is little help to our study and physical development. As the result, the advantages of games are far less than the disadvantages. 
What's more, we can do something both helpful for our study and for relax. In order to solve the problem of having too much entertainment, students can choose to do some healthy things, which can relax themselves and help them in some ways. It is easier to understand this point if we take playing basketball as an example. There is no doubt that we can relax ourselves by doing exercises like basketball; On the other hand, basketball can help us to keep physically healthy and even lose weight. Besides doing exercise, we can also relax ourselves by visiting museum. According to Jacob (2006), "Competing for an audience: Entertainment vs. Education" the writer put forward an opinion that some places can be used both for entertainment and education. And she illustrates her point by providing an example and discussing the problem of museums. By visiting museums, people can receive knowledge as well as relaxing themselves. Referring to this article, I think that we can visit some places which contain both recreational factor and educational factor in order to solve the problem of balancing the time between entertainment and study. 
According to the illustrations mentioned above, I can draw a conclusion. Because of the bad influence on both our body and mental development, students should decrease the time spent on entertainment. What's more, paying more attention to study can help students to do better on their school work. I suggest students to relax themselves in healthy ways, like playing sports. These solutions and suggestions are only my personal opinion; however, I think it would be helpful for college students. 
Reference list 
Cregal (2012). 8 Ways Video Games Are Bad For Your Health. 
Akhtar (2013). What is your ratio? Released by the Department of Labor 
Inui (2014). More time spent on television and video games, less time spent on studying? 
Jacob (2006). Competing for an audience: Entertainment vs. Education. 
BALANCE BETWEEN ENTERTAINMENT AND EDUCATION 2 
BALANCE BETWEEN ENTERTAINMENT AND EDUCATION	3 
RUNNING HEAD: BALANCE BETWEEN ENTERTAINMENT AND EDUCATION 1 
