P5d1 - Argumentative Essay (First Draft) 
28th March, 2016 
Classroom Management: Fresh Out of Class 
	Usually classroom management is just related to activities within the class. However, there is a whole world outside the class which affects the students in various ways. Classroom management is not just about managing students sitting in a hall but helping them enhance their talent and skills. I have heard people around me who believe that anything outside class cannot be related to classroom management. I strongly disagree the stereotype that classroom management is only related within the class. The more behaved a student is in class, chances are more that he is well behaved outside the class also (Astrain, 2014). 
	As Dr <Name> discussed during the interview, course structure and policies are very essential to classroom management. Now many people assume that all course structures and policies are automatically linked to being in the class. Surprisingly enough, this is not the case. There are many policies that students follow outside the classroom. For example, in my English class, I have grades which mark me for my activities and time spent on the subject outside the class. Submitting homework on time, meeting teachers during the allotted office hours and similar activities done outside the class, helps students during the class. When proper structure and rules are stated, students know what is expected of them and disturbance is minimum (Strother, 1985). Strother also states that students cannot be just taught in complete isolation without considering the outside environment. Things like school rules and the school climate are given high priority as they help building a stable and education-friendly environment. Policies should include examining the course contents and making students aware of the content. The more a student is informed, the better he is able to perform. Policies also include rules related to teachers. Feedback from students help teachers build up a positive relation among them as well as help to setup better course structure and policies. Teachers should be punctual and friendly to students as to enhance the relation. 
	Teacher's behaviour is also a crucial part of classroom management which involves students outside the class. This is proved by Strother as a result of his research. Teachers can influence students by their own behaviour. If teacher herself is clumsy, does not reply to mails and is really hard to contact outside class, students often just drop the problem they are into. This problem then is never considered by students and result in more doubts and confusion about the topic. Students gradually lose focus in class also. Similarly, Dr <Name> told me about her best experience as whenever a student appreciated her way of teaching or coming up with various ways which helped the class. She usually received mails outside the class appreciating her way of teaching which would boost her morale. Thus, a small initiative by a student outside the class helps the teacher a lot. The way a teacher behaves drastically impacts upon how a student behaves. If a teacher maintains a friendly attitude outside the class also, students are more open towards asking questions frankly and without being afraid of the teacher. They tend to understand each other much better and tend to have better discussions during the class. The relationship between a teacher and student helps both of them. 
	Counselling is a great way to build relation between students and teachers outside the classroom which helps students enormously during the classes. Students can often decide and meet with teachers outside the classroom to discuss any type of difficulty they face during or after the class. Counselling simply does not mean psychological counselling. Counselling can help students understand the topic better or help them understand something they missed during the class. When I met Dr Blanchard for the interview, I myself saw so many students who came with their doubts and problems to her. It's actually a great way which allow students and teachers to meet and strengthen their relation. I still remember when I first came to Purdue, I was so anxious and tensed about my studies. I went to select my courses and had a talk with my academic advisor. Knowing I was so worried about my studies, she helped me calm down and select my courses with ease. I was really surprised by the way she talked to me and helped me relax. Therefore, teachers can help students even when they least expect it and not only in classrooms. 
	Classroom management is as important outside the class as it is inside the class. People just need to start noticing it that way and see it in action outside the class. All the activities a student is expected to perform outside the class is apparently part of classroom management. We just need to focus on classroom management outside the class and that itself would break the stereotype. 
