Food Therapy as a Treatment 
One of the treatments using by dietitians and doctors, food therapy is defined as a way of dieting rooted in Chinese concept of effects of food on human organisms and can treat some diseases in a slow progress. And another treatment, medical treatment is a method that only uses medicines and often has a short period to recover from all kinds of diseases from my own understanding. Many people often compare these two treatments together and which is better. In my personal opinion, food therapy is a high-quality way to treat diseases, and this can be demonstrated from three perspectives for it brings a healthier life to human beings, is painless compared to traditional medical treatment, and has a lower cost of recuperating. 
First and foremost, food as a treating substance that has less negative side effects compared to medicine is much safer. Medicines come from chemical material and not all the chemical substances are good for our body, some even can cause serious consequence. Recently, I read a peer-reviewed journal article and Sacks and Campos (2010) use hypertension as an example and indicate that most of the hypertension medicines often have some side effects to the rest part of the body, especially the heart, so they recommend patients to use food therapy because food is safer and usually has no side effects. Additionally, they had an experiment with hypertension patients that the patients who use food therapy to treat hypertension and have regular dietaries recovered more quickly and have stronger bodies because food provides significant nutrition to help recover and stay health. 
Secondly, people just eat fresh and delicious food to treat diseases seems less painful than having bitter medicines or terrible operations. As far as I am concerned, eating is an enjoyable thing. Imagine that patients just have certain food and the nutrition brought by food to recover. What a wonderful thing! That is actually how food therapy works as a treatment. For example, if a person has a serious cold, doctors who apply medical treatment often tell the person to have a lot of bitter pills to release symptoms, but eating such a bitter medicine is terrible in my view. However, if the patient uses food therapy to cure will only be requested to have ginger with red sugar, an old method told generation by generation to treat cold which is told by my grandmother. I believe ginger with red sugar is much tasty and less painful than medicines. Ms. Koo (1984), a dietitian from Hong Kong, China also indicates that food therapy compared to medical treatment is painless and has little risk, so this use of dietary modification in disease is prevalent among Chinese people nowadays. 
Last but not least, food is a common substance in daily life, and the price of fundamental food materials for treating and keeping health is absolutely cheaper than the price of medicines, some chemical synthesis substances for recovering. Take my personal experience as an example. I still remember that I spent almost 150 RMB buying medicines just for a slight cold one time. But last winter vacation, I chose to drink ginger with red sugar instead of popping pills when I suffered from a cold. And this time it just cost 20 RMB to buy the weekly amount of gingers and red sugars and my cold recovered after a week-long treat. Sometimes, when people have more serious diseases, it will cost more on medicines, like 1000 RMB one treatment period or even more. In contrast, food as a daily intake substance that uses to treat is absolutely cheaper. In addition, Walia (2011) indicates that it's better to eat food than pop in medicines to cure disease, especially for economic scale. 
Many people also think that food therapy has local limitation this disadvantage. Food therapy is based on traditional Chinese medicine and just familiar with Chinese people. That means most of the dieticians and patients from other countries never heard of food therapy in fact. I had an interview with a nutrition professor in Purdue University. She told me that dietitians use another way called medical nutrition therapy, a treatment that people use to treat diseases based on the different stages of diseases in U.S and she never knew about food therapy and traditional Chinese medicine theory. Although food therapy has this disadvantage, I believe it is not crucial and the benefits of food therapy still overweigh disadvantages. 
According to previous illustrations, I insist that food therapy is really a high-quality treatment. Undoubtedly, food therapy seems cannot known by people all over the world to become a main treatment as soon as possible. So I think food therapy still needs a lot of further research to perfect the treatment and to make it suitable to more diseases treating. And because food therapy is only a special Chinese treatment, food therapy needs to spread from China to other countries by some communication and learning process. I really hope that food therapy will be completely developed and widely used all over the world. 
