International students eat healthily in United States 
Is the food offered by colleges and schools in United States healthier than the food provided in Chinese educational institutions? According to the research published by China Education Online, more than 400,000 Chinese students decide to study in the United States every year. Most of the students are very young and they have to eat in dining courts every day, the same as I do. Therefore, it is important to know that Chinese students can eat healthily in American colleges and schools' dining courts. I believe that foods offered by Chinese colleges and schools are healthier than the American food. Therefore, the dining courts in the United States also need to offer more vegetable soups as well as steam vegetables, and avoid overcooking and change the buffet police. 
My first reason is that in China dining courts in schools offer a lot of vegetable soups and steam food, and they are good for students' health. Steam vegetables and vegetable soups contain more nutrients which can be absorb by body than raw vegetables and overcooked vegetables. According to the online article "Raw vs. Cooked?" published by Dr. Fuhrman Company, people should eat more vegetable soups and steam vegetables. These kind of soups contain contains nutrients in vegetables and liquid, and if people take both of them, them can absorb more nutrients compared to the raw vegetables. Steam vegetables can also release more nutrients. Nutritionist Tricia Sedgwick also recommends that people should take more vegetable soups and steam vegetables, because they can release more nutrients in 100 degrees Celsius water or medium high temperature. Therefore, I believe that steam food and vegetable soups in Chinese schools' dining courts are healthier than American. 
Secondly, school dining courts don't offer buffets at all in China, because it is not a good way to control overweight and obesity. Dr. Miller points out that American buffets give people too many choices. People always want to taste all of the food offered in buffets, and they don't feel full when they eat buffets. People have to pay the food before they eat, so they always eat as much as they can to avoid wasting the money. It is bad for their health, and it can increase the chance to be overweight and obesity. According to Diane Duke Williams's summary of an article written by Ross Brownson, people live in rural areas are easier to gain weight and get obesity, because they eat buffets and fast food more often. 
Thirdly, students eat a lot of vegetable soups and steam foods in China; however, American dining courts in colleges and schools offer a lot of fry fast food which is not helpful for students' bodies. And sometimes the meat and vegetables offered by American dining courts are overcooked. Nutritionist Tricia Sedgwick describes that overcooked food can form harmful compounds to hurt people's bodies. In my interview with Dr. Miller and the online article "Raw vs. Cooked?" published by Dr. Fuhrman Company, they claim that baked food or steam food is better than fry food. People can use less fat or oil to bake or steam food. But the food is easy to be overcooked if people bake it. So American dining courts should offer less fry fast food, and avoid overcooking food. 
Some people might doubt that foods offered by colleges and schools in United States are healthier than China. I believe that they may be right, yet there are many unhealthy foods offered by dining courts in American colleges and schools. Dining courts in American colleges and schools always offer fast food to help students save time. But most of the fast food cooked with a lot of oil or fat, and less vegetables. It is not a good way to prevent overweight, and it cannot help students to intake vitamins and crude fiber from vegetables. Most of the dining courts offer American buffets to give students more choices, and students can make their own decisions. However, according to the research, freshmen might gain almost 15 pounds on average when they start eat at colleges' dining courts, because there are too many different foods in buffets. Therefore, the foods offered in dining courts in China are healthier than United States. 
Conclusively, I believe that dining courts in colleges and schools in China are healthier than United States. Chinese students can eat many vegetable soup and steam food in their hometown, but they don't have too many chances to eat steam food in United States. Students in America eat more fast food than Chinese students. American dining courts should offer more vegetable soups and steam vegetables, and less fast food with too much oil. Chinese dining courts don't offer buffets, because it might waste food and it is bad to prevent overweight. Dining courts in American colleges and schools should offer less buffets to control students' obesity. Chinese dining courts rarely overcook meat, but overcooked meat is common in America; therefore, dining courts in United States should avoid overcooking meat. 
