Are Standardized tests like the SAT effective in predicting the abilities of students for admissions and how this correlates to the IQ. 
Purdue University 
Are Standardized tests like the SAT effective in predicting the abilities of students for admissions and how this correlates to the IQ. 
Introduction 
Standardized tests especially the SAT have become an integral part of the college admissions process. Most of the colleges of universities around the world require this test in order to make many decisions about an applicant. I had decided to choose this topic mainly because this issue is very current and is the most commonly faces by high school students who plan to pursue a degree at a university. But in my opinion decision of the future of a student cannot be completely reliant upon a single test, since there are many factors that need to be taken into consideration. In this paper I will be weighing both sides of the argument of whether SAT's are effective in predicting the abilities of students for admissions and whether these test scores are related to the Intelligence Quotient (IQ) of a student. I will present my argument by referring to sources from different journals, websites. I will also be using data from the interview conducted with Mr. Bryant Priester who is the director of international admissions. In the end based on my argument and the analysis of the data, I will conclude this argumentative paper. 
Effect of long exam hours and anxiety on performance 
To start with I believe that the requirement for a standardized test to know or predict about a student on top of the required high school scores may not be required. Considering just the test, the performance of the student may vary for each attempt that the student gives for the test, with some factors changing during each attempt (Castillo & Caurcel, 2015). For example the SAT is quite a long test that lasts more than three hours, where students have to constantly focus on the paper that long (Castillo & Caurcel, 2015). A study by the International Journal of Psychology has shown that anxiety and concentration of students are directly related. The study has shown that as the anxiety of student increases, the student is not able to concentrate on the exam which leads to lower marks on the exam (Castillo & Caurcel, 2015). The research shows that as the time of the test increases students tend to be more anxious which leads the student to be more tired and hence unable to concentrate on the exam. The research also showed that the attention and concentration spans increased as age increases (Castillo & Caurcel, 2015). Graduate students giving similar standardized test showed to have more of concentration and achieving better results (Castillo & Caurcel, 2015). This shows that time of the SAT does play a role on the performance of the test. 
Relation between high school, university scores & SAT 
In addition there was a research conducted to determine how the SAT scores of high school students predict the performance or GPA during the first year of college. The research compared the scores of high school students and the scores of the same student when they finished the first year in their university (Porter & Slack, 1980). To compare these values they determined the validity coefficients for the SAT scores and the high school scores (Porter & Slack, 1980). The coefficients range from 0 to 1 where 0 shows no relation between data and 1 shows a good match or perfect correlation between the data. When these values were compared it showed that the coefficient for high school scores were 0. 52 and the validity coefficient for the SAT scores were 0. 35 (Porter & Slack, 1980). This variation in the coefficients shows that the SAT scores are not that good in predicting the performance of a high school student in college (Porter & Slack, 1980). This data also shows that the SAT is not that good at predicting the performance of students in university. 
Effect of SAT on teaching 
According to another study it has been shown that the pattern of teaching in high schools has been changing over time. Taking into consideration that a few years ago, admissions into many programs at universities were awarded on the basis of the results of the high schools grades (Stickler, 2007). But over the years as the testing and admissions patterns changed and more of the standardized tests like the SAT were introduced, it was noted that the teaching methods became oriented towards just scoring in exams and not the holistic approach of learning (Stickler, 2007). So students started to learn only the material that was going to be tested on the exams, just to get the required marks. The classes have also become less interactive and practical oriented due to the reduction on learning tours and laboratories which give students a very good experience with practical skills and applying the material that has been learned in class, through textbooks. 
Changes in the SAT 
However considering the changes in the pattern of teaching and learning of students there have been changes in the SAT in order to improve the measurements that the test makes about the students and to make the test more application oriented (Bidwell, 2010). For example the older SAT was longer almost lasting more than three hours, but the time for the current SAT has been reduced to about two hours which can improve the performance of students on the test. Apart from that the previous SAT used to test analogies and did not include much of geometry, but the current SAT tests more of the application of geometry and tries to include analysis of readings and analogies. Although this improvement is positive, but it also shows that these major overhaul in the test, shows that there is much more improvements that can be made to the test which are under research to make these tests more accurate (Bidwell, 2010). According to an article from the US news the new changes that have been made to the SAT cover mostly the common-core topics or the basic fundamentals of the subject tested (Bidwell, 2010). But some experts think that the arcane vocabulary used can help differentiate between students with different levels of knowledge (Bidwell, 2010). Students can be differentiated by their thinking and their application power of words. This could be problematic since someone may not be good at language, but this cannot be used to determine is overall performance. 
The contrary side, What SAT is used for. 
On the contrary side standardized tests like the SAT do help the admissions in deciding many factors or parameters which help in admitting students to a university. My view point changed a bit when I had a chance to interview <Position>, where I came to know more about the use of SAT in admissions. The cut-off scores that are decided, which are bench mark to limit the number of admissions into a university (Priester, personal communication, 2016). The cut-offs are determined by averaging the SAT scores the incoming applicant pool, so that the scores are adjusted for each admission cycle. The SAT scores also help the admissions office to decide upon the number of students to be admitted in an academic session (<Name>, personal communication, 2016). This information from the interview shows that the use of SAT is also more of for administrative purpose as well since Mr. Priester also mentioned that they have to make exceptions if students have low SAT scores (Priester, personal communication, 2016). In addition a research by the engineering department from Purdue University has shown that the writing part of the SAT lets the officers know about the whether a student will be successful in engineering. The SAT writing score explains about the creativity of students and the ability to process new information which makes it the main deciding element in the admission process (Priester, personal communication, 2016). 
Conclusion 
To conclude, most of the research that was conducted to determine whether the SAT was really effective in predicting how successful a high school student would be in university, showed that the scores of the SAT did not as well correlate with the high school performance. Even the data from the interview showed that the SAT tests are just used as a guideline, and that Purdue University does not require the SAT when applying to the university (<Name>, personal communication, 2016). In my opinion the admissions to universities should be based upon the high school scores of the student, and their achievements. But practically this test cannot be immediately removed from the system of admissions, since these tests are being used for setting the cut-off scores. The above data from research and the interview shows that the SAT is not completely reliable upon and there is a lot of research that is going on to improve the test and make it reliable, and reliability on this test can be given a lesser weightage when considering for admissions up to a level when the test is able to predict the performance of the student in universities accurately. 
