How to face the obesity toward college students? 
Claim/Argument: 
"Freshman 15", a joke to call the weight that college students gain in the first year, which are hunting a big amount of students, because it is hard for them to keep slim due to different reasons in their life and as long as this state going on, obesity problem would be happened. Actually, right now, college student obesity is recognized as a public health crisis in the United States. To face this problem, we need to gain a thorough understand of obesity. What causes obesity in college students? What are the bad effect of college students' obesity? How can colleges address and prevent obesity in college students? According to the material that I studied before, I divide 3 parts to deeply analyze college students' obesity. 
I. The first part I want to talk about the causes of college students' obesity. 
a. The most important reason to cause college students obesity is lack of sleep. 
From my presentation in the first reading response, it was clearly to show that when people were starved of sleep, their brain will stimulate eating respond toward high-calories foods. (Connor 1) For example, college students who have pulled all-nighters cramming for exams, accompanied by greasy Chinese takeout, soda, and chips, have experienced first hand. 
b. Another reason to cause college students obesity is lack of exercise and diet nutrition empty. 
From the article of my second reading response, the researchers surveyed 738 college students and found that a high percentage of they surveyed students were overweight and engaged in less than healthy dietary habits, such as low fruit and vegetable intake and low fiber intake, and low physical activity, suggesting the need for greater attention to diet and exercise interventions in this population. (Huang 2). 
c. Furthermore, bad habits also influence the weight of students like abuse alcohol (age turned 21). From my reading material, I got that One 12-ounce standard beer contains about 160 calories while a glass of white wine can have as much as 300 calories. One gin and tonic can also have as much as 300 calories. One gin and tonic can also have as much as 300 calories. (The Food Section,3) If students consume a few alcoholic drinks per week on top of their regular diet like during the party times it can quickly put them on the path to obesity. 
II. The second part is talking about the bad effects toward the obesity of college students. 
a. One of the serious effect of obesity is perennial eating disorder. 
In my interview of <name> who is a doctor working in the Purdue Healthy Center and good at treating students' obesity or reducing sickness obese. She talked about college students is a group of people that has high risk of get eating disorder because of the unhealthy daily eating schedule to make the amount of food cannot control properly. And as a period of time, this phenomenon will induce eating disease. if you really have eating disorder, first of all, you need to ask for the professional help or treat from doctor because it is hard to treat by yourself and this period of treating is long and suffer for the body aspect with inspirit aspect. ( <name> ,4) 
b. Another effect of obesity is very familiar with each other because we always listen is word around us like TV program or the conversation of talking, which is diabetes. 
In the interview of doctor <name> , she said that there are several factors that can increase the risk of diabetes including being overweight or obese especially if you carry your extra weight in your belly. Doing a little physical exercise in the daily life and smoking too much. All of these factors will increasing the chance of diabetes. ( <name> ,5) 
III. Finally, the methods aimed at cure obesity by the individual and management of university. 
a. For the individual, first of all Insist doing physics exercise and keep a correct amount of calories in your daily life. According to the report, an adult needed 2000 calories per day. Therefore, to do proper physical exercise and eat proper mount of calories is necessary for college students to keep the body far from obesity. (government report, 6) Secondly, keep a good sleep habits and improve your sleep quality. There are several tips to help you to do that: 1. Shut up your screen and keep them far from your bad. 2. Stick a schedule of sleep period. 3. Keep away from too much foods intake near your sleep time. Finally, give up alcohol, you can found it would be more free to think and work. 
b. For the management of college school, there should more thing to do than the individual's. Because it will be more efficiency and effectively to gain the goal of prevent obesity. For my reading, the researchers found that the students healthy condition who are studying the major connect with nutrition and health are much better than the students who are studying other areas' majors. Because they are more likely to eat fruits and vegetables and more likely to eat five or more serving daily. (Ferrara,7) These results emphasize the importance of health promotion education toward managers of campuses. 
Then, change the menu of students dinning hall to make it contain more vegetable and fruit, which is much healthy for students to eat. Change the type food from vending machine it can help students contain necessary nutrition in any times. 
Finally, update the gym equipment timely to attract more students to do physics exercise. 
As far as I am concerned, the best way to combat obesity is to form a healthy life style and to preserve. That is to say, obese students should do exercises regularly on the premise that their basic healthy diet is assured. Besides, they should reduce the activities that might influence the good lively period. In summary, only through a good habit and perseverance can obese students prevent themselves from the state of obesity. 
