Some countries like the UK, Australia, and Belgium require strict labeling of genetically modified food, but the US still allow genetically modified food to be unlabeled, and it is still one of the most controversial issues. GM food introduced about 4 to 5 decades ago is a technology that alters the genes of our food. The hope of this technology is to bring up food production at a stable point so the price of food won't fluctuate. However, many scientists and consumers do not view GM food as a plausible practice due to the possible harm it might cause to our body. In the US, about 80% of the foods we eat today are genetically modified, but the US government and businesses are not willing to spend the money to put labels on the GM foods. Furthermore, not enough testing and regulations were done on released GM food, no data can be collected to actually analyze the harm of GM food, and consumers should be allowed some choices in what they eat. Thus, I think the US should put labels on food packages that contain GM food materials. 
	Many scientists who support the idea of GM food claim that the food had been tested over and over again before they were released for the consumers. However, this claim is false. (Schubert,2014). The fact is that, we are not 100% sure that GM foods are safe to consume. Scientists usually take a few copies of GM foods and test them over and over again to make sure they are safe. Yet, there is something called mutation. Even though the probability of mutation is very low, when scientists make hundred and thousands of copies from the same copy of genes, mutation will be much more likely to happen. It is impossible and too time consuming for scientists to test every copy of the GM food and sometimes, this is how mutated food goes into animals and our bodies. "It is often claimed that "trillions of GM meals" have been eaten in the US with no ill effects." (Hilbeck,2013). However, it might not be because GM food really had no effects on human bodies, but more like there were no studies to be done to associate GM food with the health effects of GM food consumption. Why? Because GM foods are not labeled so it is impossible to trace the consumption of GM foods. (Hilbeck,2013). If we really want to know whether GM food cause harm to our bodies, labeling is an inevitable step. 
	Regulations on GM foods are also very limited. Biotech companies that are private do their own safety assessments. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not provide any precaution for the possible harm of GM food, nor do they require companies to do safety testing of the GM foods. FDA is supposed to make sure the food we eat and the drug we use are safe for our body to consume. However, simply no regulations are imposed on these suppliers of GM food (Barlotto,2013). Imagine if you own a company and you try to maximize your profit. The companies would not bother to go through all testing and regulating because it would increase their input cost. Thus, decrease their profit. This creates tremendous harm to the consumer sides. Since there are no reports directly point out diseases caused by GM food, biotech companies can usually get away with the reduced testing and reduced regulation. If no one is watching over these private companies that try to maximize their profits, labeling will allow consumers to watch over themselves. 	 
	Despite all the negative aspects of not labeling GM food, consumers themselves also want labeling. "Consumers cannot distinguish the risks and benefits of the technology itself" (Bredahl, 2001). Consumers with little awareness on this topic usually have negative attitude towards GM food. However, the further they know about this topic, instead of gaining positive attitudes, they gain stronger negative attitudes. Since people have negative attitudes, many Americans support labeling of GM food, "according to a New York Times poll conducted this year, with 93 percent of respondents saying that foods containing such ingredients should be identified."(Kopicki,2013). Despite the strong support for labeling, it still cannot not be passed. Companies such as Monsanto, Dupont Pioneer, Bayer Crop Science, Dow Agrosciences, and the Grocery Manufacturers Association spend over 25 million dollars to prevent labeling of GM foods. This makes consumers question the accountability of these biotech companies and the safety of the food we eat. 
Not enough tests and regulations were done to prevent possible harm from the consumers, and consumers have no transparency on what they actually eat. It is consumers' right to choose what they actually eat, especially if the food could harm our body. No matter how much money those biotech companies spend every year to stop the labeling, they still cant deny the fact the labeling is needed in the near future, for the consumers and data analysis on the possible harm of GM food. 
Bartolotto, C. (2013, October 4). Why Genetically Modified Foods Should Be Labeled. Retrieved November 19, 2014, from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/carole-bartolotto/why-genetically-modified-food_b_4039114.html 
Bredahl, L. (2001). Determinants of Consumer Attitudes and Purchase Intentions With Regard to Genetically Modified Foods - Results of a Cross-National Survey. 24(1).23-61. DOI: 10.1023/A: 1010950406128 
Kopicki, A. (2013, July 27). Strong Support for Labeling Modified Foods. Retrieved November 19, 2014, from http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/28/science/strong-support-for-labeling-modified-foods.html?_r=1& 
Schubert, D., & The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of David Schubert. (2014, February 3). Why we need GMO labels. Retrieved November 19, 2014, from http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/03/opinion/schubert-gmo-labeling/ 
