Eng L 106I 
11/18/2015 
American Culture Imperialism on China's Society: Enlightenment and Predication 
American culture imperialism on China's Society remains a huge issue, as I perceive on modern era. However, because such imperialism is quite dispersed within too many aspects or governments are too focused on economics development, Chinese people seem pay so little attention to it. As I have done research on it for a long period, I find cultural imperialism is playing much more important role on the disparity between China and America. The trend somehow reveals that Chinese not only have to pay attention to it, but also have to study thoroughly about how it originates and what we can see it in the future. Personally, I would like to present this circumstance with different aspects embodied on Chinese's society. Therefore, I believe American cultural has imperialism on China's society on many aspects. 
In the first place, movie industry is a huge market where this situation happens the most. According to the recent statistics of 2015 movies so far, we see that American movies possess over ninety percent of China's box office revenue. Besides, there are only two movies on the top ten of the list. There is something worse that I concern: The real cause probably is because our citizens are too busy and take movies as relaxation. Thus they never think or care about why this happens. As decades have passed, we automatically take it as usual. The fact is movie industry is huge on recreation market and has so many related industry which contributes a lot to the imperialism. In this way, there is no reason why Chinese have to deeply concern about this issue and discover how we can improve on it. 
Secondly, I would talk about the whole entertainment industry which includes sports, pop music etc. As a basketball fan, I have watched NBA for almost ten years; Also as music fan, I have listened to American music for a long time of period. First of all let's have a look how many profits American entertainment industry gain from Chinese for the past five years. As statistics, only those jerseys, albums and concerts can only be counted with billions! That is so huge when we pile them up. In china, we have similar sports league and renounced singer. But why we cannot be successful as they do? As I perceive, there are many little details that could cause the phenomenon. For instance, players are required to receive college education before they step into NBA. This is important because they are cultivated in a professional sportsmanship. For singers, they are not only singers. They have successful records companies behind, experienced manager, excellent producing team and perfect assistant. All those people who work in a long time can lead to good chemical reaction which made their success quite easily than others. In comparison to what we have in China, it is not surprised that why imperialism is so significant. 
Another point that can be ignored is the fast food industry. Although brands such as Mc Donalds, KFC and Coca-Cola have been consumed by Chinese by billions each year, people seldom understand why this enthusiasm never retreat for such a long time. As I perceive, those "cultural" belongs to modern cultural, which means they originated from just very short time ago. Their success can be mostly concluded to their marketing strategies. For example, Fast-food chains are professional in studying Chinese appetites and frequently improving menus in order to achieve people's highest satisfaction. For beverages and other cuisine business, they are very good at selling methods. For instance, Coca-Cola does not only have different favors, but also different volumes of drinks which create huge convenient for customers. Also they pay lot efforts to designing delicate outlooks. These little detailed improvements might seem irrelevant to their huge success. However, as the old saying "Rome wasn't built in one day", those details contribute a lot to American's culture success as accumulation in the long run business. 
The fact is that when there are proponents, there must have opponents. Most people who think folks overestimate this issue keep two opinions: They either think culture is not such an competitive power as economics or military force or they consider cultural imperialism is just something people create but do not exist. I would like to talk about the second issue first. The reason why people use the word "imperialism" is because it really exists. A very common phenomenon is the language. Think about how many millions children are learning English today. What behind the scene is that language dominates most of industries and let America takes advantage of many fields. What's more, many kids of the new generation are raised up with cartoons like Disney, Hollywood movies and eating imported snacks. As a result, they take this issue naturally thinking American cultural and products are just better then ours. Back to the first point, there are many evidences showing that cultural are becoming the number one factor influencing China's development. For instance, the reason why so many American companies put all their efforts on Chinese market is because we have such huge population. So every move they take, it cause such huge impact that other dozens of countries couldn't have. Take example of Los Angeles Lakers an example. As an successful team with glorious history, its influence is incomparable. Consequently, their related products such as jerseys, hats and clothes are earning huge profits in China. Also because of such effect, they prefer to arrange more matches in China. Not to mention other teams such as Yankees, Patriots etc who produce unimaginable revenue each year. Not only sports, high technologies such as Apple, Dell who has renounced reputation also are very popular among China. In this way, it somehow have huge impact on China's development. As I perceive, as more Chinese recognize American's lifestyles and ways of thinking, we cannot prevent such large-scale imperialism from happening. 
To sum up, American Cultural Imperialism has such huge impact on China's society and it will continue for a long time. The reason why it is somehow invisible to people is because we have to see the things from a different angle. It could be a good thing if Chinese pay much attention to it and learn the good sides from it; it can also be a negative issue if Chinese just take those for fun and never think what is really behind. 
