Effective System for People to Improve Their Overall Basketball Performances is Existing 
Purdue University 
Apr. 22 2015 
Project 5: Argumentative paper 
Abstract 
My research topic is whether there is an effective way for college students to improve their basketball skills. I argue that there is a system which is commonly followed by all levels of basketball players and teams. It clearly contains all the necessary elements such as basketball skills, understanding of coaching and game situations and which one of them is more important than others and which one is the most important above all. This argument is supported by some researchers (Col s, Y, 2012 Gilovich, T., Vallone, R., & Tversky, A, 1985 Seifriz, J. J., Duda, J. L., & Chi, L, 1992 Dirks, K. T, 2000, MACQUET, A. C., & KRAGBA, K. 2013, Wang, J., Liu, W., & Moffit, J. 2010). 
Key words: Team First, the Big Picture, Determination and Toughness, Skills and Physical Conditions 
Effective System for People to Improve Their Overall Basketball Performances is Existing 
Intro 
There are lot of people thinking that basketball is a pure talent-decided sports both in physical and mental parts. Also, most people play in a same level for decades and their mindsets for are that basketball can't be improved or trained in a positive and effective way. While I believe, basketball is mainly decided by training and analyzing. I think people just need to realize the magical power of training in a good sequence and start to believe in themselves. I will show an effective system to support my belief and I will provide lots of evidences including articles and interviews to support my system. 
When people talk about basketball, the first thing to mention is that it is a team sport. Understanding players are members of a team whether they are excellent or not so talented. In the article of (Col s(2012), Dirks, K. T. (2000). interesting fact about Pistons beat Lakers in 2004 NBA finals which represent a team that work together and two best superstars try to do in all on their own shows that it is always the right thing to do when players put the team in the best position to win and stay unselfish and cooperative. 
After deciding to be a team member, player still struggles with the choice between trying to win individual match-up in his position with his opponent and focus on his role to fit in the team to maximum the chance to win. Because the team win is the only thing that matters, we need to see the big picture to make the best decision of the entire game instead of the very moment. My interview with <name> (2015) supports this point. He mentions that they are a lot of individuals try their best and think about the team but it turns out that they play in a selfish way anyway. They don't see the big picture and always get distracted by fast-changing game situation. They need to understand what the team needs more from them and what their teammates are expecting out of them. If players have problems with this recognition, they need to communicate with the team. Once they gets this, they will gain the instructions on how to play on a higher level. Then when making decisions on the court such as whether to keep the designed play by the coach or change it to get the best of the current situation. This point is supported by MACQUET and KRAGBA's (2013) who argue that decision making is completely up to the best results turning out for making teammates' game easier and teamwork more efficient. This recognition can also answer Gilovich,Vallone and Tversky's (1985) question about should the "hot hand"(p.1) keeps shooting. "The hot hand" (p.1) means a player is feeling wonderful in a game as a shooter. If the player can get the preferable opportunity which means high percentage for him and in the estimations of other teammates who will do their parts of job like setting screens for him and rebounding the basketball for the team, he should keep shooting because it makes the game flow and the team system run; if the defense of the opponent's is aiming at him which means they set more than one player to try to slow the hot player down and in this case he shouldn't force a shot but using the assist from his teammate or simply drawing the defense to pass to teammates at open spots to make their game easier instead because the same reason which is to fit in the big picture. 
After players have the directions to play in their minds, it is the time to mental control and toughness. Self-drive and finding motivation is crucial for players to constantly improve because basketball is a combination of heart, mind and body which takes long time to really step up. The research conducted by Seifriz, Dude and Chi (1992) shows that motivations will boost the outcome of each process of improving and lead players to impressive success because the inspirations from inward and outward will energize and excited players. Then the role for each player decides their mindset and directly influence their determination and team's chemistry. Dirks (2000) explains similar points in his article. He specifically brings out that the crucial meaning for a team to have a recognized and powerful leader. It will lead the whole team to another level because the trust is built in a strong way and it will be more dynamic and healthy relationships in the team under the uniform leading. The fact is that to become a better player takes tons of time and to build a team needs more. Players need to understand the mutual team value and goal to define their roles and stick to it. This point links with the first part of this system of putting the team on the top. 
After all these as foundations, the physical condition and basketball skills will play the last role. Wang and Moffit (2010) find out in their researches and surveys that a large quantity of people can only use a small range of useful basketball skills. That is major restriction for becoming an overall better player because there are countless various kinds of opportunities on the court, players need to make themselves available to those options and chances by mastering more types of skills. The skill is player's arrow and the physical condition is their protection. 
Players need to understand skill is only useful when body comparison is in a comparable level. Also, it is significant to break down the details about what type of physical training is working for certain individual's weaknesses. Last but not the least, to make sure the fitness training directly links with basketball will help players combine skills and physical conditions on the court. 
Conclusion 
I argue that there is an effective system to train for basketball of any level. I want to use a friend of mine as the best example in real life that I know. He follows this system which contains team, big picture, mental toughness and skills& conditions to really improve his game to a higher and higher level. He starts as an irrelevant player in his country to be the leader of the school team and then be able to stay as a winner and competitor in college of a country which basketball is more developed and represents the highest level of the world. All in all, I have to argue that effective basketball training system is existing and working in a smooth way. 
