	With the development of an entertainment industry, the public does not only pay attention to artists' performance but also their career development. However, there have been a lot of lawsuits between entertainment companies (agencies) and artists in recent years, especially in Korea because of oppressive contracts. In 2010, three members of TVXQ (a famous Korean pop music band) indicted their entertainment company (one of the biggest entertainment companies in Korea) because of their unfair contract. They won the case and built another band. However, their victory started the lawsuit battle between artists and management companies in Korea. Without any doubt, the phenomenon shows the relationship between agencies and artists go worse, which may influence the artists' careers. However, some people think that is good because agencies are unnecessary and they only know about getting profit from artists. There is another part of people holds the opinion that entertainment companies and artists are connected tightly, which means the relationship should be fixed in order to run both of their careers better. Therefore, some actions should be taken to deal with the poor relationship between artists and their agencies such as building a connected partnership, doing research before contracts and making a contract that benefits both sides. The relationship between agencies and artists is so important that helps artists on career lives. 
	Korean Pop music (K-pop) developed as an important industry in Korea and brought huge economic income. Korean dramas and music have a huge proportion of Asian entertainment, which means they act as an important role in Korean entertainment industry. K-pop is a branch of World Pop music, but it is unique and different from others. Korean Pop music rarely contains traditional Korean musical factors (Kim & Shin, 2013). It is not like Chinese singers, who want to add Chinese traditional musical factors almost all the time. In addition, K Pop mixes simply English and Korean in songs in order to expand the listeners. What's more, K-pop has another nickname, idol music, which means singers' brands are built successfully and the brands help to spread their songs. However, performers are under high pressure because their entertainment management companies' unfair contract that caused many lawsuits these years. This paper is going to talk about how to improve the relationship between artists and management companies. 
	It is possible for artists to build their own entertainment management companies, but this kind of company lacks resources and is full of risk. With the music industry developing, individual musical managers gather and form into an agency, which has a more systematic management system. As a management agency, it acts on behalf of artists and tries to make the right decisions for artists. Artists' managers should calculate the risks, give advice to clients, push artists out of their comfort zone, and help them to reach goals. Different from other management, musical management companies just need to tell their artists plans and decisions (Allen, P. 2011). In addition, the relationship between agencies and artists looks more like a partnership rather than employers and employees. Companies manage artists in order to build a brand and use this brand to attract more talents. Actually, an agency's profit is connected to artists' success directly. However, agencies get paid from artists' income according to the contract between artists and management companies without any doubt. Comparing with professional management agencies, artists' companies have to face a lot of issues such as economic problems, public relationship crises and lacking resources. Artists have to run companies, which means they cannot put their hundred percentage to musical career. If artists cannot focus on music, it will be hard for the company to exist. To summarize management companies take responsibility for artists and how to make more professional decisions such as making suitable plans for different artists, distributing income with reasonable rate and solving clients' personal crises. 
	Compare to other countries, Korean entertainment management system gives more pressure to artists. As mentioned in the paper, Korean entertainment industry leads Asian entertainment. In Korea famous entertainment management companies such as SM Entertainment, JYP Entertainment and YJ Entertainment have auditions yearly in order to find talents. However, there is not only the competitions between different entertainment companies but also appear among artists even in the same company. Generally, agencies suggest that the talents be trainees after entertainment companies select them. Companies have several evaluations every month to test trainees' improvement in order to choose who has the opportunity to stand on the stage. If a trainee does not work hard, he might be kicked out of the company. He can either choose to continue attending auditions or try other jobs. Once companies decide to make contracts with trainees, trainees accept harsh terms because they have already practiced for years. However, when trainees become famous artists, many of them will ask to fix contracts either through negotiation or lawsuit. 
	Agencies and artists are connected closely (partnership) and a trained contract can protect both sides' profit besides trust that means artists' leaving hurt both artists and management companies. For management companies, they cost both long time, and economic support to rebuild a famous brand for artists. In addition, it cuts the profit from artist's income. From artists' aspects, there are a lot of harms if they decide to change entertainment companies because the management company not only manages artists' careers such as selecting songs and residents but also control their personal life like dating and marriage (Weiss, M., & Gaffney, P. 2012). Creating a contract that makes both clients and agencies feel that they have won can help to build a stable relationship. To summarize, evaluating agencies carefully and making a fair will help to build a long and stable partnership besides the main support, trust. 
	Artists can represent themselves in order to have more income. Entertainment companies look forward to high profit all the time, so they do not follow the contract, sometimes in order to get money as much as possible from their clients. However, professional management companies have systematic solution for problems, which means artists can focus on music. In Korea, writing contracts carefully before signing is important though competition brings much pressure to artists. The point is management agencies and artists are connected tightly and they need each other. 
Reference 
Allen, P. (2011). Professional artist management and its principles. In 	Artist management for the music business. Amsterdam: 	Elsevier/Focal Press. 
Shin, S., & Kim,, L. (2013). Organizing K-Pop. Emergence and Market Making of 	Large Korean Entertainment Houses, 1980-2010, 30(4)(10966838), 255-272. 
Weiss, M., & Gaffney, P. (2012). Artist/Management Relationship: 	Business, Ethic, and music. In Managing artists in pop music 	what every artist and manager must know to succeed. New York: 	Allworth Press. 
