Argumentative paper, Draft 3 
2016/04/23 
The difference between human beings and social animals in social psychological field 
Background 
How do human beings differentiate from other animals? There are many answers for this question from different academic perspectives. However, in social psychological field, we use the term cultural animals to differentiate human beings from social animals. What are cultural animals? They are the kind of animal that seeking connection to surroundings and preferring to live, work and play with others (Baumeister & Bushman, 2016). What is so special about cultural animals? Implied by its name, the most distinguishable trait that only human beings have is culture, something that a large group of people have in common, and the essence of what makes us human (Baumeister & Bushman, 2016). However, people always get confused with what really culture is, they mixed up the traits that only human beings have with similar characteristic that social animals have. Thus, they make wrong statement that there is no difference between human beings and social animals. Therefore, to eliminate this controversy, I built up two claims from the definition of cultural animals: shared belief and social norms, are the two unique traits that only human beings have. 
Shared Belief 
First of all, Baumeister and Bushman (2016) defined shared belief as the common things a group of people have, which can be based on everything, such as gender, race and nationality. For example, people who share the same nationality always speak the same language. Females and males have different character and hobbies. People from difference 
race have different life style. As you may notice now, the belief Baumeister and Bushman are talking about is not common understanding of belief. The belief in social psychological field has wider range of definition: not only faith, but also custom. 
In contrast, social animals don't have shared beliefs. Even if they have spieces for classification, biology do all the work. However, there are some critics, saying that social animals also have languages. Take bird as an example, they use voices, non-vocal sound, and tail feathers to communicate with others (Tkaczyk, 2006). As I mentioned before, language is one example of shared belief, which is supposed to differentiate human beings from other animals. Yet, according to the previous example, there is one criticism argued that social animals also have languages. To refute this idea, I interviewed my TA in social psychology class. Ms. <name> (2016) stated, "Although birds do have languages, but the language of bird has different scale and function compared to human languages." To be specific, the scale of languages for birds is limited and simple compared to human language which is uniquely complex. We use languages to talk about history, present, and future which birds cannot talk about. Thus, the language of birds is not satisfied as shared belief. Also, Ms <name> argued that birds' communication only existed because of natural selection: birds have different patterns of songs to find others from same spiece, send warning signals and notify about food, which are all essential for survival (Personal communication, February 19, 2016). As a result, languages cannot be used to prove that social animals has nothing different from human beings 
In general, although both human beings and some of the social animals have languages, the scales of them are not the same. Biology causes languages of animals to exist: genes and evolution selects the trait that best helps a spiece survive and have offspring, which is completely different compared to human beings. Thus, I concluded this information in a claim: shared belief is one of the distinguishable traits that can differentiate human beings 
from other animals, since social animals have some shared-belief-like traits just because of biology rather than culture. 
Social Norms 
Further, social norms are also used to differentiate human beings from social animals. Baumeister and Bushman (2016) stated, this descriptive social norm is what guides people's behavior, which exists in daily life in form of rules, laws, or even authority request. People need to follow these norms in order to get social acceptance. Otherwise, they may be excluded or isolated. To avoid these kinds of punishments, people will normally follow the social norms. Still, there is another reason for human beings to follow social norms, morality, which social animals lack as well. For instance, social animals can have as many as sexual partners without judgments because the priority of social animals is to follow evolutionary goal: the more offspring, the better. However, in human's case, it is common to see people with multiple sexual partners are criticized since having sex with too many people violates morality. 
Yet, another kind of criticism stated that social animals also have behavior schemas which can also be called norms. For instance, there is one experiment testing chimpanzees' reaction to infanticide scenes (Rohr, Schaik, Kissling, & Burkar, 2015). Surprisingly, according to Rohr, Schaik, Kissling and Burkar's report (2015), chimpanzees watched far longer at the infanticide scenes than other videos without any physical actions, which is exactly what humans will do when they are in a large group of companion. They (2015) also argued, "Chimpanzees as uninvolved bystanders may detect norm violations but may restrict emotional reactions to such situations to in-group contexts, which is a perfect example of bystander effect that happened often in human being's society." Detecting norm violation but respond with nothing is also a kind of social norm. Thus, people concluded that social animals are nothing different from human beings because they also have social norms 
However, Ms. <name> (2016) opposed, "Although both social animals and cultural animals use descriptive norm to guide their behaviors, observing and following everyone, the difference is that human beings follow their culture to obey norms. Instead, social animals follow instincts to act along with norms." Simply, she explained, in this case, chimpanzees followed bystander effect because they are afraid of getting killed which will eliminate their chances to have offspring, violating evolutionary goal. However, when there is bystander effect happening in human society, people learnt to be offish when other potential helpers existed. So we can conclude that even if social animals have norms, they are following biological trend, which is not the same as cultural animals' norms (Personal communication, February 19, 2016). 
Conclusion 
	Limited by the length and type of this paper, it is hard for me to include all the traits that can differentiate human beings from social animals in this paper. Thus, I only picked two representative ones to introduce in this paper, shared belief and social norms. 
It is easy to see that because of blurred definition, people made a lot of mistakes confusing the unique traits only cultural animals have with lower-scaled traits that social animals have. Like I mentioned before, with limited usage, social animals' language is less multifunctional than human beings' languages. Meanwhile, social animals follow norms because of their natural instincts, while human beings follow norms based on morality and culture. In general, although there are many common features cultural animals and social animals share, the core difference is that culture takes part in every reaction of human beings, whereas social animals mainly follow biological trends. 
