P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 26, 2015 
Best Use of College Courses 
There have been plenty of debates about university education recently: some educationalists establish the curriculum and the graduation requirements, while some others suggest that students should have full freedom to choose whatever they want to study instead of blindly following the requirements. For instance, they claim that students should not be forced to learn a foreign language if they do not have the enthusiasm themselves. However, a major problem is that sometimes students choose not to learn a new language simply because they think it will be hard. More generally, not all of the students really know what they want and what is important for them, and their choices are always influenced by many other factors. Thus, although the idea of full freedom sounds quite attractive, it is indeed very impracticable. Undoubtedly, a university should maintain its current curriculum, driving students to learn what they should learn. And beyond this, the education will probably be more efficient if the university can take some actions to let students know the importance of the required courses, evoking their interest. 
Foreign language courses and requirements can be considered as a specific example. These courses can be very beneficial, without any doubt. According to an article written by Zack Simon (2014), learning a new language is indeed helping improve one's creativity: a new language is also a new way of thinking, so it allows a distinctive perspective. And increasing creativity is not the only profit: more practically, foreign language ability may give students a remarkable advantage in their career development. It is the idea from Dominic Luddy (2008), a linguist, that students who speak more than one language will have more opportunities and earn more salaries after they graduate from college. And when I interviewed a career development expert <name>, from Center for Career Opportunities at Purdue, on the same topic, she confirmed this idea (personal communication, March 27, 2015). The foreign language ability is becoming more and more important, because the economy is becoming global and the trend is so unstoppable. All in all, learning a new language in college is definitely a good thing, and the foreign language requirements do make sense if we consider their outcomes. 
However, the concern is that actually not many students can realize the necessity and importance of the language courses, so they fail to take the best use of them. According to a research conducted by Juan Antonio Thomas (2010) in University at Albany, most of the students take the courses merely because they have to fulfill the foreign language requirement. Obviously, they will neither continue their study after the requirement being fulfilled, nor practice the verbal skills outside classroom. And even though some students take the language courses because they think these courses will bring them advantages in their professional career, they barely know how it works. Frankly, this phenomenon suggests that students need to get a better understanding and a clear plan about their future development, which requires the university to take more actions to help in this way. For instance, some career planning workshops may allow students to visualize how a foreign language ability will bring them opportunities. Furthermore, if the university can add more cultural courses and hold more cultural events, students may have more interest in learning the related foreign language, because language is the key to interact with another culture; in this way, they do not need to realize explicitly why the foreign language courses are necessary and important, but they will also get the benefit in the future. 
Undoubtedly, the university should keep its foreign language requirements because they do make a lot of sense. Beyond this, if more and more students realize the value of the language courses, studying actively instead of coping passively, they can indeed maximize the resources to make themselves become stronger and more competitive in the future. 
We can also generalize this idea to other university requirements: there are many useful courses in the university curriculum, and what a university should do is to make students realize why it is necessary and important to take these courses. In this way, students can make best use of these courses and gain more knowledge that can benefit them in the future. Furthermore, the university education system will be more efficient as a whole. 
