2015/12/12 
Does Undecided Major Help or Harm College Students' Improvement in Academic process? 
At American colleges, it is very common for students to change a major. There are even more and more students who don't pick a major for the freshman year. Those students are called undecided or undeclared students. As one of the undecided freshmen, I wondered if it is good to be undecided in college. Are we left behind? Are we less prepared for college than peers? Is undecided major necessary or helpful? So, in this paper, I will discuss whether undecided major helps or harms college students' improvement in academic. According to the resources and an interview, undecided students are not left behind; undecided students spend more time to think over the majors; and undecided students get more support in choosing majors. So, undecided major is a good choice for college students to develop in academic field. 
First of all, undecided major provides undergraduate students some time to think over the majors. Many students are not qualified to pick major based on their own thoughts and opinions in the first year. In "The Developmental Disconnect in Choosing a Major: Why Institutions Should Prohibit Choice Until Second Year", Liz Freedman points out that there are many factors from the environment such as parents' and teachers' opinions can affect students' choice of major in freshman. There is a disconnection between the development of freshmen and the requirements for picking a major. Freshmen usually don't have much experience or knowledge of majors and need assistance in picking them. College system should allow students to search the majors and find the one fits them best in the first period of their college life. <name>, a student who spent a semester in Exploratory Studies (a Purdue program for undecided students), said he and his friends had no idea of the majors during the first college semester. <name> believed the half year for hesitation Exploratory Studies provided was very essential to college students. Before coming to Purdue, he had studied at a Chinese University. In Chinese education system, <name> didn't have an undecided choice and spent one year in law just to find out he hated law. Undecided major provides student time and a chance to think over all the possible majors instead of waste a lot of time to try all the possibilities. 
Beyond that, undecided major provide students more supports in picking major. By picking undecided major, students can get an adviser know well about all kind of majors and can better assist them while choosing majors. In "Advising Undecided Students: What Works Best?", Kelly Stark explained how undecided advisers are trained to assist undecided students based on student-centered approach, personal approach, and group approach. With student-centered approach method, advisers listen to students' ideas and interests of majors. Personal approach method asks advisers provide enough information and suggestions to students. Group approach method is the method that let students and advisers work equally to pick majors. Those well trained advisers can help students solve many problems while picking majors. 	 
Besides the help from adviser, undecided program also provides many other supports. For example, in Purdue, exploratory study program provides students all kinds of personality tests to show what personality they have. Those test results suggest a way to go for those students who have totally no idea about the major. Those tests sometimes remind students of their personality which they aren't aware of. There is a booklet for students to check what kind of person each major and job are searching for. That gives students a big picture of the majors. Undecided students are trained to tell what kind personality code a major, club, or task is looking for. They are even told how to calculate the "fit score" between a major and themselves. All that information helps students to find out the major which is not only interesting but also suitable. Besides the tests, there are also other opportunities for undeclared students to learn more about a major. In Exploratory Study, students get the chance to interview a senior/junior student in specific major to see whether the major is interesting or if they can handle the major. In certain classes, a great amount of majors are introduced to them. The more majors they get know, the more likely for them to pick a major fits themselves. According to undecided student <name>'s experience, he knew many other students who were also undecided in major in undecided program. So they can exchange their information and discussed with each other about the majors. For example, students in EDPS, a special class to help undecided students to pick majors, research for one major and present it in class. So they only need to check one major and get information of many ones. That cut down a lot of work for undecided students. Working together with people in similar situation, students can avoid similar mistakes and work more efficiently. Advisers in undecided major collect typical questions from students and post the answers to everyone in EDPS class. Once the questions are asked, the answers make other students work more efficiently. As <name> shared, he didn't worry about his undecided when he found so many undecided classmates. When students knew that there were many students were not sure about their majors just like them, they weren't too worried about the unsure and calmed down to focus on the work. Overall, undecided majors help students work more efficiently towards major picking. 
Someone might argue without a clear academic plan, undecided majors would slow down students' speed of achieving academic aim. Undecided freshmen seem not have a specific aim to work and study through. They seem to wasting a lot of time on hesitations. But actually, undecided major won't delay students' academic plan. Most students in specific majors were not that decided, either. In Major Decisions and The Developmental Disconnect in Choosing a Major: Why Institutions Should Prohibit Choice Until Second Year, both Liz Freedman and Cecilia Capuzzi Simon cited 75%-80% of students are actually not decided in their future major, no matter whether they are in undecided major. Many students in specific majors keep changing majors. According to The National Center for Education Statistics, 80% of college students in the United States will change their major at least once. There is no short cut for decided students. There isn't less work for those students to do before graduation since they didn't work towards their final goal all the time. According to Purdue undecided student <name>, Just for courses, students don't have to be decided at the beginning. In the first semester, students all take general courses which can be applied in most major. There isn't big influence on courses for the first half year if a student was undecided in major. Another essential element for academic schedule is career experience. Being unsure about major at the beginning also doesn't delay students' career plan. Most students didn't take any major courses in freshman year and were not qualified for an internship. All above shows undecided major won't extend students' academic schedule. 
In short, undecided major helps students improve in academic. Being undecided in the beginning of college doesn't delay students' academic process. It is important for student to have timer to think of majors in undecided program. Last but not least, students get more support in undecided major to help him pick a major. To help undecided students develop better, universities can provide more suggestions on how to measure the fitness of a major and what factors are essential in major picking beyond information needed while picking majors. 
Freedman, Liz. "The Developmental Disconnect in Choosing a Major: Why 	Institutions 	Should Prohibit Choice Until Second Year." the Mentor. the Mentor, 	June 28, 2013. Web. Dec. 13. 2015. 
Stark, Kelly. "Advising Undecided Students: What Works Best?" the Mentor. the 		Mentor, Sep. 16, 2002. Web. Dec. 13. 2015. 
Simon, Cecilia Capuzzi. "Major Decisions." the New York Times. the New York 	Times, Nov. 2, 2012. Web. Dec. 13. 2015. 
