P5d1_Argumentative Essay _ Draft 1 
March 29,2016 
Being A Good Retailer is not Difficult 
In this economy-centered society, there are numerous shopping malls and other retailers appear to the market. However, it also brings the series of competitive challenges among retailers. In order to be a successful retailer, it is necessary to be qualified. After doing the research from the Internet and having the interview with the expert in retail management, I believe that being a good retailer is not difficult. 
If a retailer could hold each ability they should have, it is more easier to become successful. Some of people hold the view that being a good retailer is very difficult because as new retailers, they should face the changeable competition with existing retailers who have lots of experience. However, in my perspective, I think new retailer could transcend those existing retailers. According to the expert I have interviewed before, she told me new retailers can do the better then existing retailers because the new retailers are more likely have accepted the higher education than existing retailer, they may know more area which related to retailing like marketing, merchandising, finance, communication skills and data analyze skills. These skills can help new retailers to adapt this market in as soon as possible and improve their total retailing skills. In addition, the expert asserted that if existing retailers always using the old business models and old technology, they will be difficult to survive because the retailer environment and customers' needs are unpredictable. 
A large group of people hold the view that since Information Technology developed significantly, customers are more likely to choose the online shopping because it is more convenient than shopping in the physical store. The author (Blazquez,2014) asserts that Information Technology had changed customers feeling of shopping. That means, they think physical store retailers may face the huge challenge now. However, from my point of view, I think physical store retailer will not be defeated by online retailers. According to the expert I have interviewed before, she said that as a traditional shopping mode, physical store retailers could use their own advantages. For example, they can take good advantage of visual merchandising like make the gorgeous window display, use the modern decoration and the beautiful music in order to offer customers a enjoyable shopping environment. 
Besides, physical store retailers need to improve the customers service. To be specific, retailers should figure out what customers really need and then provide the considerable customer service to them. For example, Tsui(2000) suggested that retailers could send the daily emails which include the latest fashion information and fashion advice. This method could not only be close to customers, but also can attract customers to go shopping. In addition, physical store retailers could also use multiple channels to selling the products like through the Ipad, Iphone or other mobile devices. 
To put it into the nutshell, being a successful retailer is not as difficult as those people imagine. Although retailer may meet series of difficulties and challenges, retailers who hold the wonderful abilities could solve problems well. Also, it is not difficult for a new retailer to exceed existing retailers because new retailers are more likely to come up with the new ideas and use the new business models which are more suitable for the present market. For example, K-Mart used to be an experienced retailer, however, it is declined now. In contrast, Walmart as a new retailer is more popular now. In addition, as a physical store retailer, they should take advantage of their own strong points. Through these methods, being a good retailer is more simple than most of people thought. 
Reference 
Marta Blazquez(2014). Fashion Shopping in Multichannel Retail: The Role of 
Technology in Enhancing the Customer Experience, 18 97-116 
DOI: 10.2753/JEC1086-4415180404 
Bonnie Tsui(2000). Welcome to Candyland Dailycandy.com offers a daily Fashion 
tips and inside style scoops for savvy shoppers. Footwear News, 42, Retrieved from 
http://purdue-primo-prod.hosted.exlibrisgroup.com/primo_library/libweb/action/display.do? 
