Draft #3 
Nov. 18, 2015 
Death Penalty in China 
	Death penalty is a great part of human history to ensure the integrity of law as one of the oldest penalty in the world. And given different conditions in different countries, each treated this differently. As over 100 countries all over the world abolished death penalty within their country, and advocate for more countries to abolish this severe punishment like them, Chinese people start to talk more about the future of death penalty in China. Different views were presented in the debate. But as far as I concerned, I believe that the abolishment of death penalty will happen but not in a short while. I will provide reasons below to support my opinion over this topic. 
	First of all, as the history goes from 1786 when European countries start to take real actions to abolish death penalty after the idea first brought out by the Great Duke of Tuscany, more and more countries give consideration to this proposal and join the team to abandon death penalty. As suggested by Ingrid (2013) in her paper "Historical Evolution of the Death Penalty Abolition as a Fundamental Human Right", after the idea was first brought out, countries start to abolish death penalty after long time debate as their development provide a solid base for such action to take place. Also, from statistics provided by human right protection group, the number of total death penalty taken out in the past 10 years drops evidently, and so does the number of countries amended their law to abolish death penalty. Indicated in John Gettings's report on "Death Penalty Update" on the website infoplease, "more than three countries a year on average have abolished the death penalty in law since 1976." Those numbers collected better proved the fact that the restriction in the use of death penalty and the abolishment of death penalty has become a world trend in protection of human rights. 
	Secondly, China's government showed great interest to achieve such a goal to abolish death penalty in China through past years. Though the number of sentences and execution taken out of death penalty has been kept secrets by the government, the number of reported death penalty dropped over years and most of them are not sentenced with a suspension period instead of immediate execution. As reported by Chris Hogg on 25 February 2011 on BBC News, 13 crimes that used to face death penalty has been removed form the originated list of 68 crimes punishable by death. Furthermore, "The president of China's Supreme People's Court has made it a priority to reduce the number of wrongful convictions, part of a broader effort by Beijing to improve public faith in the country's legal system. "written by Josh Chin reported in the Wall Street Journal on 7: 12 Dec 15,2014 in the article "China Court Reverses Death Penalty Verdict, 18 Years Too Late." As mentioned in the article, the Mongolia High People's Court sincerely apologized to the parents of Huugjilt, who was executed in 1996 at the age of 18. And therefore the government is trying to make less mistake and be more caution when giving death sentence and executing in death sentenced criminals. 
	Last, as mentioned in the beginning this abolish of death penalty will not happen shortly due to the circumstances of China. <name>, a lawyer I interviewed previously on this topic further confirmed this by saying "The basic requirement for a country to abolish the death penalty is a stable social environment where economic is advanced, people are well-educated and everyone can make a living easily. Also, people should have the ability to tell right from wrong and able to behave." Also in the paper "Destiny of the Death Penalty in China in the Contemporary Era", the writer Xiangliang(2006), mentioned such things as social existences and social consciousness and indicated them as basic ground for the abolishment of death penalty to happen. For those conditions China's society failed provide right now, the abolishment is likely to happen post 21 century as it develops to a level where all those conditions may be fulfilling to abolish death penalty. 
	On the other hand, some may argue the death penalty should not be abolished since the deterrence power of law will decrease and thus people feel there are less serious consequences for them to commit crimes they may commit more crimes. However, it is proved that the deterrence power has been overrated. According to Yuanhuang(2009), the deterrence power has different power in different time frame, but the overall effect it has over the crime rate is not straightly related. 
	In conclusion, I believe that the death penalty will be abolished in China over time when the proper conditions are provided since the worldwide trend of doing so and the gradually procedures China's government taken on the way to reach this goal. 
