Considered as a controversial issue, the development trend of mobile phones has aroused vast attention in society during the past decades. Some would assert that mobile phones are really convenient, so they will replace computers and televisions in the future . But some others hold the idea that mobile phones will be the same as what they are now because mobile phones still have some disadvantages. I strongly incline to the view that the dominance of mobile phones will not expand in a few years due to their security problems, operating systems, and mobile phones hardware technology. 
First of all, security problems exist in mobile phones operating systems. This is a big obstacle for people to substitute mobile phones for computers and televisions. Affected by the security problem, mobile phones will not be the safest electronic device in life or work. According to Asokan, N., & Davi, L. (2014), an Android-based platform security study reveals that privilege in android operating system causes the security problem. Privilege is a kind of permission to perform actions in mobile phones. Once the privilege is escalated specially by others, the security crisis emerges. This kind of privilege escalation enables adversaries to steal users' contact data. A similar security problem happened in the IOS operating system. Because of limits of apple's application vetting process, those adversaries could inject malware by escaping the vetting process. When the code of application presented as dynamic load -pretending the application is running, this kind of pretended code would not be recognized by the static analysis tools which are used to recognize unreasonable applications or malware when these applications are not running in the mobile phones. So the code could elude the static analysis tools and inject a malware at that time. 
Second, the inconvenience of existing mobile phones operating systems is another reason why mobile phones cannot replace computers and televisions. Much work cannot be done by using mobile phones due to their not well established operating systems in which many work applications are not able to operate. Helal, A., & Bose, R. (2012) mentioned the environment of Android operating system, a main mobile phone operating system in the current market, has some inconvenience. The first one is high instability of operating system during operation. When people try to run a complicated application, the Android operating system sometimes will break down, which will leave users a terrible impression of use. The instability would greatly affect users' operation. The second one is low optimization in mobile phone operating systems. In the original Android operating system, complex and redundant system documents would occupy a lot of mobile phone memory, which leads to nonfluency during operation. 
The high cost of mobile phone hardware will significantly prevent users from using high-performance mobile phones. Although some high-tech mobile phone hardware such as projectors in mobile phones which can assist mobile phones to do more diverse tasks have been invented, the extremely high cost of this hardware is unaffordable. For example, mobile phones projectors were invented by Google months ago, but this kind of device has not been gone into mass production due to its high cost. Although these projector enable people to project their mobile phones' screen on other platforms, its high price prevented a number of people from enjoying this technique. Based on Neowin, (2012 ) introduction of mobile phones hardware from the advanced processor, large storage, the big screen, and fingerprint button can essentially increase the mobile phone performance, but this high-tech hardware also increases the price of mobile phones. At that high price, most people such as students cannot afford it. Therefore, the high cost of hardware would keep some people away from high-performance mobile phones. 
Some people may think the high mobility of mobile phones will lead to high dominance of mobile phones in the electronic market. The high mobility enables people to carry mobile phones with them. They can use mobile phones to take photos, send messages and surf the internet anywhere. It is convenient to carry a mobile phone. However, people ignore the fact that the high mobility will result in low-performance at the same time, which will cause terrible user experiences. Therefore, the high mobility is exactly an advantage but it is also a disadvantage. For example, when people are sending an important e-mail in mobile phone, it is really horrible if the mobile phone battery suddenly died. The email will lose and the related work will be delayed. Also, some work that can be done in computers cannot be finished in mobile phones. For instance, Photoshop cannot operate in a mobile phone. 
All in all, taken all the facts mentioned above into account, I believe that potential security problem, not well-rounded operating systems, and high cost of advanced mobile phones hardware will not enable mobile phones to occupy the market shares of computers and televisions. 
