P5D3 international student finding internship 
April. 26. 2015 
Nowadays, more and more international student choose to study in US because of different reason. Some people may think US has better education, some people may just want to experience different culture. But study is not the only thing we should do. More and more student want to experience different things during our college life, and that's why more and more international student consider having internship. Some people even want to find a job in US because they want to have different working experience. But finding internship has never been a easy things for international student. Sometimes, it may be much harder compare to domestic student. While international student facing such situation, University should do something to help international student. 
First of all, some international student have language barrier compare to domestic student because they use different language rather than english. Having language difficulty may cause international student can express themselves well. Which is big disadvantage for international student when they are finding internship. In order to have a internship, international student need to introduce themselves to company when we are doing interview. If that student is not good at using english to communicate, that student won't be attractive to the company even if that student is really skillful. University shouldn't let this happen because no student want to be jobless after they graduate. University should help international student deal with their language problem. University should give their international student more train on their communication in order to let them communicate efficient enough. For example, provide more chance to let international student talk to others, let international student know how to express themselves and let international student be more confident when they are talking to others face to face. Sometimes, have a good introduction of ourselves are even important than how well we learn. 
Secondly, a lot of International student feel psychological isolated. The original place of some international student come from have different culture with US. People speak different language, eat different food or act different way. It's easy for international student feel alone. When they feel alone, they tend to stay with those people have somethings in common with them. For example, Chinese student stay with Chinese student, indian student choose to stay with indian student. But this is bad for international student get into the society. Which means international student can't get involve the local social networking. But social networking can helps a lot on finding internship. A lot of people's first internship is introduced by their friend. Which means international student lost some chance of finding internship. Some people may point out that when Chinese student stay with Chinese student, they are not really isolated, they just have their own social network. This claim seems so true but in fact most of the international student's own social network won't works when they trying to finding a job. The reason why international student stay with international student is because they feel easier communicate with each others, they prefer to stay in this confer zone. Most of they don't communicate with americans. Which means their network don't really connected to US society, that's why their network don't work. Helping international student get in the local social network is not just international student their own job, but also university should help them. If university can provide more communicate chance and force international student to get contact with the local people. For example, university can provide more communicate party or study group make up by people have different culture. If university can help they student get in the social network, student can use the social network they get to find internship or even get in the society and american culture. 
Lastly, International student have VISA issue which make the situation even worst. Company need to pay for student's H1B visa in order to hire international student. When international student show the same quality as domestic student, company tend to hire domestic student. Sometimes the situation may turn even worst. Some company don't hire international student due to company policy or security problem, For example like some major like aerospace or nuclear engineering. Last but not least, US company tend to hire the people have the same culture with their company. Because company also have their comfort zone. Hiring a person have different culture with their company may occur some unsure problem, which means it bring risk. It might be hard for university to help student to deal with their VISA issue, but university can help student work on other's part. For example, during the career fair, provide more chance to international student and convince those company who don't accept international student to accept international student. Increase the amount of job that international student can find can always be helpful. 
In summary, international student is more difficult to find a job in US because a lot of factor, like language barrier, cultural difference, physiological problem, and VISA issue. In order to obtain an internship or job they want, international student need to work harder than domestic student. University always want their student be helpful to the society or at least can live on their own. No one want their student became jobless after their student graduate. So helping international finding job is also helping university themselves. If most of their international student can find job after they graduate, this university will be more famous. So university should definitely put more effort on helping international student finding internship. 
Reference: 
(Rose Xu, Purdue Center for Career and Opportunity, April 5, 2014) 
