Transportations in West Lafayette 
	Are you the type of person who like fresh air or like staying in the warm room? Are you an outgoing person who are more willing to talk with others or stay by your own? Are you rich or poor? Why am I asking these to you? Because choosing the best transportation for you to go to class in Purdue campus is a kind of science that need you to think that many factors. If you do not ask yourself these question before you choose the way go to class, you might feel uncomfortable or tired when your school days start. My main topic is talk about the transportations in West Lafayette and help people find their best way go to class. 
	In the Purdue campus and the whole Lafayette area, there is a very efficient transportation for people who live here called City Bus provided by Lafayette Government. City Bus collaborate with Purdue on providing free service to Purdue students. That means for student who hold Purdue student ID card, it is free to have a ride. There are more than 10 lines of city bus which goes different places inside the Purdue campus and they can send student to most buildings or places inside Purdue from their dormitory. Most bus pass through the dormitory 4 times an hour. So the time schedule for you to choose is very flexible. If you like social activity, you might want to communicate with your friends or classmates on your way to school every day in the bus. It helps students know each other better by putting people who go to similar class each morning. But for student who would like to go out of campus, it would not be that convenient. There are only a few lines provide outer campus service and the most of them go 2 times an hour. For student who does want to pay much on daily transportation and willing to communicate with others, I think taking the City Bus to school would be a very good way. 
	Cycling to class is also a very comfortable way. Purdue and West Lafayette government build many bike path this year in order to make Purdue more bike friendly. Compare to City bus, Cycling might need you to buy a bike first but that would be the only cost. Cycling to school can help you breathe more fresh air each morning also take some exercise before you step into classroom. This might help you keep energetic at the beginning of the day. The time schedule is even more flexible than taking the City Bus. You can choose whenever you like to cycling to school. Cycling also helps to keep you fit. For student who would like to lose some weight, cycling to class every day helps you decrease 680 calories if you do it for 1 hour. But when the weather is bad like raining or snowing, you are no able to cycling any more. For students who like fresh air and need time schedule more flexible, cycling to class in Purdue might be a good choice. 
	Driving to class every morning is an enjoyable thing for most college students. It gives you a warm and private space on your way to school. Also, when the time is easy to find a parking space, driving to school is faster than cycling and taking the bus to school. And by owning a car, you can choose more places to live inside the town. Usually people who live off campus have better living quality than people who live in the dorm. No matter what kind od weather it is, you can always drive your car to school. You can also take your friend or the girl you like to school each morning so that develop your social relationship. But driving to school also cost you more. First of all you need to buy a vehicle, then you have to pay for the gasoline. It cost average 1.3$ per mile you drive. For students who are rich and want to enjoy the personal space and living quality, owning a car and driving to school is your best choice. 
	As we can see, all three transportations have their own advantages and disadvantages. There is no best way go to class for all students but the most suitable way for yourself. You need to consider the cost, time, weather, personal characteristic and health when you are choosing your best way go to school. Also, in order to help students more comfortable on their way school, I hope Purdue can build more garages for people who drive their cars and build more bike path for students who cycling to class. The daily life in Purdue will be better. 
