P4d3_ae 
April 14, 2016 
Supply Chains Benefit Manufacturers, Companies, and Customers 
	Many people confuse the term logistics and supply chains, logistic is a distribution process within the company, while supply chains include multiple companies, manufacturers, and customers. With the increasing competition within the market, manufacturers look for the lowering costs, companies find ways to establish close contact with manufacturers, and customers pursue the best quality and price of products with better customer services. Because of above demands, manufactures and companies will continue innovate and reform the entire production and supply chain to maximize the profit. Customers will continue seek for best quality and best price that provides customer service to meet their satisfaction and needs. I totally embrace that the supply chain enhance manufactures, companies, and customers' profit at the same time. Their cooperation of three parties improve the overall efficiency. 
	For manufacturers, advanced supply chain provides several sustainable advantages including: lower production costs, introduce "poll system", and reduce inventory carrying costs to improve overall efficiency. The most direct method for manufacturers to stand out the market is to offer the lower price than average price. By shipping out finished goods directly to customers, manufacturers can provide a competitive price even lower than the average price. Compared with traditional logistic method, supply chain provides a newly "poll system" which can reduce a large amount of inventories carrying costs. <Name>, a Professor of Purdue University who teaches supply chain told us that manufacturers should not make products until customers place orders. With the help of poll system, different manufacturers get information immediately. Therefore, with the poll system, manufacturers can make their production schedule before they make products, which helps they make a plan on purchasing and production properly, which improve the overall efficiency. Professor Amy David provides me couple steps to control and to improve the efficiency of inventories, which lower their cost. First, manufacturers working closely with supplier, not only their communication, but their locations. Since the location of manufacturers and suppliers are close, in which largely reduce the lead time and save shipping fees. The short distance cut out transportation fees and helps them sell products quickly. Next, manufacturers reduce inventories carrying-costs and improve production efficiency by standardizing products and module designing. For example, Panda Express provides customers with different choices to meet different preference. By using "poll system", reducing inventory carrying cost and increasing production efficiency, manufacturers can use least cost to create the most profit by supply chain. 
	For companies, a positive purchasing plan, short lead-time, a better distribution center and a closely relationship with transportation can help company to improve the overall efficiency. Blanchard (2014) recognizes some elements that in response to the vigorous development of supply chains: stay positive with purchasing, reducing lead-times, control the distribution center smoothly, and developing the long-term relationships with transportation companies. To future to illustrate the supply chain strategies above, Badeshia (2014) concludes the four ways to improve companies' overall efficiency: companies operate different supply chains based on different situations, they should make a purchasing plan in the regular time interval, also let finance and logistics team work together to create a central supply chain organization. 
	Since customers have closer relationship with companies, they are beneficial from better prices and variety selections than before. On the one hand, companies have to satisfy customers due to a competitive market. Like what Blanchard (2014) says that in order to produce profit for both companies and customer parties in the next decade, companies need to pay more attention on customers. He emphasizes the success of Colgate. They meet individual customer with different kinds of requirements as much as possible. As a result, this process receive excellent feedbacks from customers and improve sales volume at the meantime. By improving customer satisfaction, customers get better service; with a large amount sales volume, companies also provide customers a lower prices. Therefore, with the huge contribution of companies, the biggest beneficiaries are customers due to lower price and better customer service. Customers are able to get different kinds of goods worldwide that they could not get previously. Take me as an example, I can get fresh foods all over the world every day, but if we did not have supply chain before, we only have limited selections such as soybeans and corns. 
	To sum up, manufacturers, companies, and customers stay in the chain supply, they take individual profit. Manufacturers increase production and reduce inventories carrying costs by using poll system; companies improve the sales volume; customers receive better price with best customer service. Supply chains serve all three parties on the same time, which promote optimum competition within the global market. 
