April 17th 2016 
No perfect way to study social problems 
Social problems are the problems or issues that influence a considerable number of individuals within a society and often bring negative results to individuals. For example, suicide is a typical social problem. Many social problems relate to the economic problems but there is not always a relationship between them. In the real world, researchers always try to use different methods to define social problems. What are the methods? Methods in sociological mean that the ways to investigate into the social problem study. However, in my opinion, sociologists have not concluded the "perfect" methods. In this paragraph, I am going to provide some arguments about how sociologists' ways to study social problem. And I will point out the problems for each method and conclude that there is no perfect way to study social problem. Therefore, in this paper, my research question would be: do the methods cannot 100% indicate the social problem we studies? 
Social problems are especially important since they affect a large number of people in a society. And social problems include a lot of issues that individuals care about, which influence their daily life. For example, economic issues including unemployment rate, public health, inequality including gander or statues and education which relate to unequal distribution of funding between public school. Those problems all have huge impact on a large group of people in their life. Therefore, here to the question that how we could know or understand that social problem better. What methods can the researchers use to determine whether the issues are serious or not. In order to solve social problems, we must first define them by using appropriate methods. To be more specific, economic problem is one of the important social problems and it might sound nothing to you if you do not care about it. However, it matters to everyone in the society in that people earn income in order to buy, to live. No one could live without paying or live with on food or drink. When economics suffers, citizens lose their jobs and lose the ability to pay their living necessities. At that time, people will realize the important of economics problem. Similarly, other social problem, like health, sex imbalance are all important to individuals in the society. A data table below shows the social problem clearly. 
From the data table above, we can see the social issues that the society care about the most. The No. 1 problem that people think of is the access to the clean water, which relates to the environment problem. According to the data, 95% of the global residents notice this issues and vote for it. The environment problem is a very good example to explain the social problem. People care about the environment that we live in and it is a great topic to study. However, the method to study the environment can not simply define. Assume the sociologists try to use historical method to study, they might suffer from the lack of historical knowledge as the environment keep changing. 
The common methods of study any field of study includes observation, recording, classification, hypothesis, verification and prediction. Let's talk about the first method first which is experience method. In Sociology, the raw material of sociological investigation is the human being for whom it is not possible to live within certain fixed conditions so it is not possible to have the laboratory method (According to Shelly Shah). However, we could still observe the behavior of the human being under certain conditions in their life. After observing people's behavior, researchers collect the data from observation. As accurate as they could to avoid the error in recordings. Next step is to come up with the hypothesis and it might provide the explanation of people's behavior or social problems. 
The second common method is the historical method. This method is a study of past events or past civilization in order to understand the society's nature and working. There is an evidence showing that our present forms of social life, our customs or ways of living have the roots in the past, which we could use the history to explain 
today's issues. 
Another common method is the ideal type method. This method has been expounded by Max Weber, Simmel and Durkeim. They reference this method as constructed from concrete cases and evaluate a particular case due to the degree of the 
approximation to the ideal. 
The three common methods above all apply to the study of social problems. However, each of them is different from another in the way that one could be used in study one particular social problem but another one could not. Each method has its appropriate way to use. The experiential method basically could apply to all the studies but it might be not precise if the data is not accurate of the hypothesis is far beyond the standard. The historical method could not help all the social problems because not every issue happen today has happened before. Therefore, there is a limitation of looking for resource. For idea type method, it is difficulties that construction of an ideal is hard and it is not objective process which means that it might contain people's basis in the ideal theory. And also to come up with the theory might take too much time and there may be not enough time to wait to solve the social problems. 
Some people consider that there is actually the perfect way to study a social problem. They figure out some methods and try to prove those could best to study and analysis social problem. However, as this paper introduced, each method has its own limitations. As society develops, many current social problems occurs and they never appeared in the past. People do not have enough evidence to defined those problems and Sociologists must indicate the new method to study current social problems. 
Study social problems is a difficult process. Even though sociology is a science it contains too much human being actions which bring a lot of uncertainty within the study. Sociologists already reduce many common methods to study social issues. However, those methods as our understanding are still not perfect and sociologists try to come up new methods to improve. In a word, there is no absolutely perfect way to study social problems and each method has its own limits. 
Citation: 
Shah, Shelly. "Important Methods and Techniques of Sociology." Sociology Discussion Discuss 
Anything About Sociology. N.p., 20 Jan. 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2016. 
Santorum, Rick. "Why Social Issues Matter." New York Post Why Social Issuesmatter Comments. 
N.p., 26 Feb. 2012. Web. 16 Feb. 2016. 
"Newswire ." Cause We Care: Social Issues That Matter To Consumers. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2016. 
"Why Your Customers' Social Identities Matter." Harvard Business Review. N.p., 01 Jan. 2015. Web. 
28 Apr. 2016. 
