What should colleges do to help veteran students? 
Veteran students are a special group with different experience and background. The history of veteran students can be traced back to the end of World War 2. Many soldiers got back to home. As a kind of benefit, colleges offer veterans the opportunity to study there. The increasing number of veteran students in college changed the atmosphere in higher education. Veteran students have always been an important part of the culture of higher education in the United States. With the Post-911 GI Bill, the numbers of veterans in colleges increased fast. 
Student veterans represent a unique group of nontraditional students. Like most nontraditional students, they are often older than their student peers, may support family at home, may have significant work commitment outside school, may be less involved in campus activities and feel less a part of university community than a=traditional college students(Olsen102). They used to serve in different military branches, and they decided to pursue a degree in higher education. Because their experience as military personnel, veteran students might have some specialties, or in another way advantages and shortcomings. An important question that many people would ask is why college would need to help veteran students. First, veterans deserve the help morally. They fought and sacrificed for the United States, for us who live in this country. This is a moral issue. Secondly, the opportunity to study in higher education institutions is provided by the government as a way to help and honor those veterans and is an investment from the government. If they could not finish the college, the investment would be wasted. Last but not the least, veterans have many advantages and incredible potentials, such as self-discipline and outstanding team work ability. If they cannot graduate from college and learn to apply them into civilian lives, their talents would just be wasted. 
The culture shock veterans experiencing in college is another big barrier for them. Veteran students need to realize that their culture role changing in order to successfully transit into civilians. This is the step called "from inside to outside". Veterans need to completely understand and get ready for their changes in this step. The sudden shift from the structured military to a less-structured college environment can be challenging. Mitigating culture shock is a crucial step for veterans turning to civilians. They need to mentally realize the changing of their culture roles and be willing to accept it. The culture role transition is literally the initial step of transition as a whole thing. Culture role transition is also a serious problem for veterans in higher education. Culture shock Veterans would experience culture shock because of their different background just like international students. They would feel confused and overwhelmed. Many veterans report that they have the sense of alienation (O'Herrin2). Multiple study participants described how in military circles it might be appropriate to speak very directly and assertively to others, whereas that type of interaction could be perceived as rude or aggressive in college (Olsen105). When I was interviewing <name> , the Coordinator of <program name> in Purdue, he said cursing is very common in military because of the special culture. However, in campus it is a rude act. Many employers prefer the applicants with military background, while they also hate the rough edges on them. Apparently, cursing is one of the edges. To make the veterans less shocked as they enter colleges, some public universities started the special orientations for veterans. It helps them to know the offices in campus, so they will know where to turn for help. Orientations offer financial, education benefits, and health benefits information and coping strategies as well as connect students to community groups such as the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars (Ryan, Carlstrom, Hughey, & Harris 2011). While participating, the veteran is exposed to other new faces beginning their college career. Focused transition sessions offer an opportunity to interact with diverse individuals, aiding the transitioning process (Di Ramio & Jarvis2011). By meeting other students during orientation, student veterans can begin building a strong support network (Kirchner117). 
Assistance on academic aspect is another very essential service that colleges should provide for veterans. It's the second step called "from veterans to veteran students". They have to be at least capable of their schoolwork in order to be recognized as students. This is the most direct way to help veterans on their schoolwork. Many veterans have not been learning since graduating from high school because they were busy serving their country. Some veterans may not have had prepared as well at high school or college because they knew they were going to serve. Also, veterans may support families at home, may have significant work commitment outside of school (Olsen102). However, veteran students are at a higher risk of dropping out of college, and that being a student veteran is negatively related to grade point average(Olsen102). Higher education institutions should help veterans to get used to learning in college and provide them essential help. Establishing veterans help room is one of the most common ways that some colleges used. The upper class students in the help room can help veteran students in different majors. 
Then, colleges should help veterans to broaden their horizon by letting them make friends with traditional students. The only way to make it happen is to build up their interaction skills. This is the step "from veteran students to students". Helping veterans to overcome social interaction issue is one of the main tasks for colleges. Veteran students need to learn how to communicate in a way of civilians. Different from other traditional college students, veterans usually feel hard to talk to other civilians. The maturity and attitudes of their college peers were significant barriers to social connection. They complain a lot about the reading and work they have to do. Said one of the interviewees (Olsen104). One of the main reason is their different background. It is hard for them to find common ground with other traditional students. Just like one of the interviewee in Understanding the Student Veterans' College Experience: An Exploratory Study said: "You're used to a tight knit community, but here it's like you're an island..." (103). In military, working together under high-stress situation, team members shared a close bond with each other. However, as soon as they get into college, the close bonds just disappear. 
Feeling hard to build new relationships in campus, many veterans tend to seek out other veterans who share the same background. Establishing an organization for gathering veteran students together is very necessary to help veterans get involved in college communities, especially in colleges like Purdue, which has over four hundred veterans. Veterans could reach out to each other and find people that they can easily be connected with. The student veteran organizations and veteran help centers are two programs can directly contribute to college experience for veterans. They are opening national wide and provide a risk-free atmosphere to interact with peers who have similar experiences and understand military culture (Kirchner117). However, in the research conducted in The higher education landscape for US student service members and veterans in Indiana, institutions appeared to be doing worst in the areas of having a SVO (14.3%)(Hitt542). Establishing student veteran organizations in colleges is important and intimidating, because veteran students in colleges without SVO are stuck when they want to reach out to other veteran students. 
Finally, the most common issue, which also ignored by many people for veteran students is the awareness of other students, which is "from students back to veterans". Aware of the veterans, getting to know the veterans is definitely an important part of college veteran service. As said, most veterans do not feel being part of the college community because of their different background and experience. Increasing the awareness of veteran students can effectively help them to interact with those traditional students. It also helps students understand how to help veterans. During the interview, <name> told me that the most common question being asked for veteran students is "Have you ever killed anybody?" However, it's a really rude question to the veterans. Raising the awareness can avoid these kind things from happening. 
Purdue is doing a good job on raising the awareness of student veterans. We hold meetings monthly for veteran students to interact with other regular students. Purdue Student Veteran Organization also have different activities around the campus to let students get to know veterans. SVO here in Purdue also holds free coffee place for students just to raise awareness in campus. 
What should colleges do to help them achieve academic success and smoothly transit to civilians? While, the service colleges provide is important for veterans to achieve academic success and transit into civilian world. There are four steps through the whole process of transition. First, veterans need to realize the difference of their culture role, which means that they understand they are in a different circumstance. We can call it "from veterans to veteran students". The second step is "from veterans to veteran students", which means they accept the help on academic aspect. Third, student veterans need to connect with other traditional students in the campus. Making them, part of the college community is what colleges need to do here. I called this step "from veteran students to students". Then the final step, raising the awareness of student veterans in campuses. This is the step named "from students back to veterans". 
Work Cited 
"Enhancing Veteran Success in Higher Education", O'Herrin, Elizabeth, Peer Review winter 2011, 15-18 
Supporting Student Veteran Transition to College and Academic Success, Michael J. Kirchner, MS, Adult Learning. Aug2015, Vol. 26 Issue 3, p116-123. 8p. 
The higher education landscape for US student service members and veterans in Indiana, Hitt, Stacie ; Sternberg, Martina ; Wadsworth, Shelley ; Vaughan, Joyce ; Carlson, Rhiannon ; Dansie, Elizabeth ; Mohrbacher, Martina, Higher Education, 2015, Vol.70(3), pp.535-550 
FACILITATING VETERANS' ACADEMIC SUCCESS: Veterans Integration to Academic Leadership (VITAL) Initiative. Mc Caslin, Shannon 
Thiede, Jessica, Vinatieri, Trisha Passi, Holly, Kristin Bull, Ahern, D. Armstrong, Keith, Chitaphong, Kai, Career Planning & Adult Development Journal; Fall2014, Vol. 30 Issue 3, p191-209, 19p 
Understanding the Student Veterans' College Experience: An Exploratory Study, Olsen, Timothy, Badger, Karen, Mc Cuddy, Michael D. U.S. Army Medical Department Journal. Oct-Dec2014, p101-108. 8p. 1 Chart. 
| 
