Cybersecurity: Savior of the Internet 
From my curious thoughts to the synthesizing of multiple research papers, my ideas and pictures in how cybersecurity affect the system have been continuously changing. My awareness has been raised to the level that every time I open a website and start browsing, I have to check the information provided by the Symantec Norton Internet Antivirus, an antivirus tool that I installed in my computer. According to International Telecommunication Union, cybersecurity is defined as the collection of tools, policies, security concepts, best practices and insurance that can be used to protect cyber environment (International Telecommunication Union, 2014). In a more understandable term, imagine yourself driving a car. When there is a car accident, your airbag in front of you provides you with the first protection that you can ever get, similar to what the protection cybersecurity can provide in the virtual world. As you can see, it provides us with a layer of protection that can lessen threats that may have gotten to us directly. Therefore, in this paper, I am going to argue that all Internet users should be concerning about cybersecurity. 
Cybersecurity was created to safeguard our increasingly sophisticated technological world. According to Joel Brenner, an NSA counsel, "The Internet wasn't built for security, yet we have made it the backbone of virtually all private-sector and government operations, as well as communications" (Estes, 2014). Furthermore, David Nall, a programmer at NASA regarded his opinion that, more things connected to the internet means more vulnerabilities (Estes, 2014). Nowadays, many public services such as economic transactions, air traffic control and even the power grid are all connected to the internet. Additionally, our daily public transportation will also be connected to and controlled by the internet as well in the future (Estes, 2014). Obviously, all of these things are playing big roles in our daily lives, and without cybersecurity in place, imagine what it will be like if these things are hacked and controlled by hackers. They could possibly control everything that is connected to internet without even seeing those things. In retrospect, the internet serves as a public virtual space for everyone. Anyone could use this space to create or do whatever they want. However, having a protection from cybersecurity could grant one a layer of privacy, blocking any harmful threats that might harm one's information. With this regard, cybersecurity is therefore a guardian of users' virtual spaces. 
The uncertainty of what could happen in the internet is, undeniably scary. Because of the fact that, all information on or connected to the internet could be taken without our permission by an anonymous hacker if left unprotected. Therefore, the responsibility of practicing cybersecurity falls into the hand of every internet user, from individuals to organizations, and to even nations. Starting from individuals, it wouldn't be surprise that hacking into people's private messages has become increasingly frequent during these past couple years (Wolfe, 2012). Thereby, the world's first "cyber-bodyguard" developed by a company named Vigilante Bespoke, was established. This company provides a protection to the users that seek a high level of privacy. Nonetheless, issues regarding IT crime are also rising as well in organizations. The booming of technological industries during the past decades has made cybersecurity in mobiles and tablets becoming more important than ever. Nowadays, industries have to face with complexities of new security challenges while making new products for new customers. They have to deal with many advanced hacking methods that could harm their company every single day. Therefore, it is no one, but company itself to be responsible for its security. With this regard, the biggest challenge that everyone should be concerning about is his or her own nation's security. As technology is continuously changing, achieving the most durable protection over the whole country or even the world requires the effort from various public/private sectors (Asllani, A., White, C. S., & Ettkin, L, 2013). It isn't only government's responsibility to protect their nations, but it is everyone, every single individuals and organizations. 
Being responsible for our own protection is a main concept of cybersecurity. However, if one fails to protect his or her self, the consequence could be disastrous. Consider the case of the recent i Cloud hacks that happened last summer. Twenty-six celebrities were the victims of this hack. The hackers somehow managed to get into the i Cloud accounts of celebrities such as Jennifer Lawrence, Kate Upton, Victoria Justice and many others (Remling, 2014). This hack proves that even a well-protected and advanced company such as Apple can get hacked too. Therefore, the responsibility of protecting our own data didn't fall into the company's hand, but ourselves, the users. Similar cases could also be seen in various organizations. Nowadays, most business companies have changed their economic system to be internet-based. However, making this change also provides side effects (NY times, 2014). Companies such as Wal-Mart, Home-Depot, Target, and Apple have all recently been targets of cyber-attacks (Fortune, 2014). Due to the fact that all of these companies are global-scaled, hackers could, therefore, plunder even more revenue and money from the companies, and moreover caused them to lose their brands' reputation. Even the highly branded bank, JP Morgan Chase Bank, was breached last summer (NY times, 2014). This attack compromised over 76 million households' accounts and seven million small businesses, possibly the biggest cyber-attacks in the corporate history. Edward J. Markey, a member of Senate Commerce Committee, also exemplified the bank data breach as another danger in Americans' most sensitive personal information. All in all, the result, whether it happened in individuals or any business companies, was crucially disastrous. Such things wouldn't have happened if these people and companies had their awareness of cybersecurity. 
In general, issues regarding cybersecurity are on the rise. Our world is becoming more globalized and connected. Even though, this provides various benefits for us, it also brings lots of headaches and losses for the users too. As things get more connected and integrated into the internet, achieving complete control with the mean of exploiting bugs and vulnerabilities is becoming more common in this age of technology. According to these trends, I foresee the future of cyberspace as a virtual reality, a world that is going to be built upon on the internet, a world that humans will depend on. Think of the threats that might happen to us in the future, it won't be the same anymore. Crimes in the future will be targeted things that are online, and being unprotected isn't going to work out too well. Thereby, having a protection from cybersecurity, in my opinion, is our first leading step to the future. 
