Argumentative Essay First Draft 
March 29, 2016 
Students Should Know More 
At this very moment, many students are hesitating which major they should choose that best fits them. Students who have interest in computer majors would also choose between Computer Science (CS) and Computer Engineering (CE). The point is, there is not enough information provided to computer-major students who are choosing their field of study, which is one of the biggest decision in their life. As a result, majority of students who are majoring in computer have to make decision with the vague expectation of how the major will be. Hence, more professional and detailed information about the similarities and differences of CS and CE should be provided to university students in order to help them study what they wish to. This essay will urge the importance of why it is essential to establish more means of providing students the adequate information regarding computer majors, and will claim specific suggestions on how we can make this possible. 
According to Ben-Ari (2011), there are so many common misunderstandings of computer studies and computer programming professions. He states that he decided to write the journal in order to correct the existing misunderstandings and provide accurate description regarding what computer majors study and what programmers focus on. Ben-Ari (2011) also urges that professions and the genres of tracks within computer field is relatively new due to its rapid growth and development in the field of study. Hence, it is inevitable that many people and students are having wrong idea about computer studies and specifications. In other words, this is why it is necessary to think of more ways to help college students get a grasp of what specific computer studies will be like. This way, students who have special interest in computer majors are more likely to maintain their passion throughout the tough computer-studies curriculum and beyond university studies. 
As it is obvious that there needs to be more information provided to students, specific goals and systemically organized plans are crucial. First of all, universities in the United States should come up with more conferences and speech sessions by experts in the sphere of computer studies. For university students in particular, conferences and sessions held by the school are most convenient to approach. It is because the accessibility of the information; students will easily be notified that the conferences will be held when they see the bulletin board or receive student email. Moreover, the credibility of the information is another advantage that these sessions held by universities possesses. In most of the times, informing sessions through universities are conducted and being said by professors or prestigious experts on computers. As a result, the possibility of the misguided or biased information in conferences via college is significantly low. These are why universities and colleges in the United States should hold more information sessions on computer studies. 
Along with the effort in university level, IT companies including software database corporates can also take part in providing accurate information for college students. The big problem these days is that companies only participate in career fairs in which they sit in the booth to recruit interns or new employee. Rather than only focusing on recruiting students, it will be so worthy if these companies can tell students what they will be working for after they finish their study and begin their career in each division of computer fields. In fact, information regarding which types of division they will be working at, and specific skills that are needed as a computer expert is exactly what majority of computer majors claiming for. Since information about careers and specifications by companies are more up-to-date compared to that by university faculties, computer-related companies should often make opportunities to provide career information to students. Companies then, as well as students, actually benefit themselves because students who received valuable resources from a certain company, are more likely to prefer that specific company when they are graduating and looking for job. 
To sum up, uniqueness of computer field and its rapid growth are giving university students confusion which lead them to hesitate when they have to choose a specific major. Hence, in order to improve this situation, more up-to-date and accurate information regarding computer studies and professions should be provided to students in order to help them grasp the sphere of study. For this to be accomplished, efforts by universities and companies are essential. When it becomes possible for college students to receive more information about their field of study and various specifications, students can consistently maintain their interest throughout their college years and develop their own passion. 
Reference 
Ben-Ari, M. (2011). Viewpoint non-myths about programming. Communications of the ACM, 54(7), 35-37. doi:10.1145/1965724. 1965738 
1 
