The Chinese student adaption of America life 
As Chinese economics rapidly prospering, an increasing number of Chinese international students appear in American universities. However, by entering America one cannot assume that a student will live a high quality life and be academically successful in America. Actually most Chinese international students have the difficulty of adapting to American life. In this case, for the better adaptation, Chinese international students need to make great efforts, one of the helpful methods to make Chinese students better adopt in American life is getting an appropriate job which may provide varieties of experience and skills. 
The fact that most Chinese students cannot adapt to the America life does exist. Adapting to America life style is a significance problem and it brings on a varsity of negative effects. Based on 130 Chinese international students who have been surveyed, Yale University researched some facts and it showed that 45% of Chinese students had depression symptoms and 29% of them are related to anxiety symptoms because of the communication problem (Han et al.). In the long term, the lasting depression and anxiety could cause the mental illness. In another word, the difficulty in adaption could impact the psychological development of Chinese teenagers who study in America and even make the irreversible influence to their whole life. 
In light of the current situation, Chinese international student are badly in need of great efforts and large progress to overcome such a thorny problem. A better way to shorten the time international students need to adapt to America life is working on campus. Working on campus provides international students a great chance to communicate with other native speaker because their colleagues are more likely American students. Chinese students tend to be shy and face-saving and it has enormous difference from American opening-cultures. They always reject talking to strangers. However in the working area, the communication and cooperation are required so it increases the chances and frequencies of speaking English for Chinese students. 
What's more, working can help international students better understand the American way of thinking and working. The disadvantages of Chinese students' English skills aggravate their misfit and misunderstanding. Chinese English teaching model results in the poor vocabulary and the atypical oral speaking skill of Chinese international students. With these issues, they are afraid of talking to American native classmates because they probably make mistakes during talking. In working place, Chinese students are pushed to socialize and actively participate in the host culture and communication. The research shows that Chinese students have the less degree of depression when they have more contact and communication with Americans. Because the unfamiliar people becomes friendly and the unfamiliar environment becomes familiar when people try to talk understand others. 
Thirdly, on-campus working experience is valuable for Chinese students to studying at school and hunting a job in the future. People tend to feel nervous and unconcerned when they first do something. Working experience can expand personal horizon and personal experience which help Chinese international students a lot when they want to find another job. Tianyi Zhang' s working experiences in Winsor Dining Court and a Chinese internet technology company help she find a intern in Walmart, a such big company. She said she became more confident in networking and interviewing. In her opinion, a job in college gave her a jump start and she learned to find a balance between time and studying time (Zhang). 
However a small percent of people owning the opposite view that it's unnecessary for Chinese international students to worry so much and make large efforts. They hold the idea that Chinese students can only play and work with Chinese students and they can form a group that every Chinese feels comfortable in this zone. Actually it is an unrealistic idea because a Chinese student can never avoid contact to Americans even though there are thousands of Chinese around him or her. Their professor is an American, the group mates distributed by TA are Americans, drivers of school bus and even the sellers of a bookstore are all Americans. In United States, American guys are the main steam. Communication and interaction with them are parts of life. A person who stays in the comfort zone cannot make progress and get success. The time a person struggling and feel challenged is also the time a person can learn and grow. Also some people consider that doing a part time job can influence the study. Actually, many students get a good grade while working on campus. As long as you schedule your time reasonably, there is no confliction between studying and a part time job. 
The problem that most Chinese international students cannot adapt to America life does exist and cannot be ignored. Further, Chinese international students can better accommodate in American environment when there is more communication and interaction between international students and domestic students. The final goal for international students is blending in the native life and society, which cannot succeed without several years of efforts. Every Chinese international student must experience this challenge and change if he or she wants to stay in America and live well. So a lot of works are still needed to be done for them. 
