Introduction 
	Nowadays, technology is improved second by second, and products are replaced by more advanced products. My topic, which is about computers, is that whether tablets will replace the traditional computers in universities in future. According the trend of the development of computers, my opinion toward my topic is that tablet will replace traditional one in universities in future. And my research questions about my topic specifically are how can tablet replace the traditional computers in campus, and my second research question is what advantages tablet will bring to the universities and students. I found several good resources about my research questions, including three articles and an interview with a professor who have used tablet on class. 
How can tablet replace the traditional computers in campus? 
	In the articles which I selected, the first one from Ozok, Chakraborty and Norcio (2008), which described the comparison of usability between tablet and laptop by doing an experiment, support the idea that tablet will be the mainstream of the mobile computing in the future with advance of technologies in universities. Ozok et al. designed an experiment to identify the preference between the laptop and tablet. In the experiment, there were 4 tasks for volunteers who were undergraduates in university to finish. Volunteers used tablet and laptop separately to complete these tasks which includes the reading task, writing/typing task, manipulation task and form-filling task. And the results of the reading task and manipulation task showed that, the tablet is really an efficient tool to do these two tasks, and the results of the writing task and form-filling tasks showed that it is not as easy as to use keyboard to type in. However, the stand of Ozok et al. is that tablet is still a competitive device in the future mobile computing. Additionally, nowadays most of the tablet can be linked with the keyboards, therefore the problem of tying is solved, and tablet becomes more competitive. 
	According to the interview I did with professor Lorraine, who used tablet on her class, professor Lorraine mentioned that this is a question that we cannot give the answer now. And she said using tablet to replace traditional desktops in universities, such like the computers in computerlab, and in libraries was a good point, and they were asking the similar questions because University will renew the computers after all. And she said there are still lots of problems and situations which are hard to solve if universities decide to use tablet to replace the desktops, such like the cost problems and security problems. Universities should take long time to compare the lost and advantages, and find out the solution of the situations and problems. But, the opinion of professor Lorraine toward this question is similar to that of Ozok et al. tablet is possitble to occupy the mainstream of the mobile computing the universities in future. 
What advantages will tablet bring to the universities? 
	In the third article, which summarized the teaching advantages of using a tablet on lecture by describing several examples and programs about using tablet in university lectures. Cicchino and Mirliss stated some benefits of the Tablet PCs in higher education: tablet allowed faculty to create "digital material" (p. 1) easily, such as the presentation, and tablet can be used as an "interactive whiteboard" (p. 2). The School of Architecture of the University of Texas at Austin was selected to participate the "Rapid Adoption Program", which identified tablet as a "higher level of creative interaction and mobility" (as cited in Cicchino & Mirliss, ITRC, 2002). Cicchion and Mirliss said that "Faculty members at UOIT find Tablet PCs especially useful for presenting math and technical notations during in-class presentations" (p. 2). In conclusion, most of the feedback from the faculty of universities which use the tablet on lecture were positive. 
	And according to the interview, professor Lorraine pointed that using tablet on lecture was more flexible and collaborative, and she mentioned that tablet is absolutely a good reader, and a good device to give presentation. She said she put the tablet on a cart which has wheels, which means she can move the cart to any classroom she want and she can use that cart to plug in and charge it easily. That is the flexibility tablet brought to professor Lorraine on lecture. Moreover, it is impossible for 100 students to take class in the laboratory, but if every student has a tablet, and they can take class in the huge lecture hall. That is the flexibility tablet brought to the students. Also, professor Lorraine said the tablet can help student to be engaged on class, because in computer lab, students always just concentrate on monitor but not instructor, and tablet solved that problem completely. And tablet was convenient when students had a teamwork, they could seat in a round with tablet and discuss with the short articles on lecture. Professor Lorraine also talked about her husband who also used tablet on lecture. She said her husband used keynote to show the slides by linking it with the projector and he could highlight the content easily by just highlighting with a pen on his tablet. Additionally, professor said there are some presentation assignments for students to work on, and tablet is a fantastic tool to do so, which improves the fluency of presentation. 
