Why did Atari Fail? 
Purdue University 
Why did Atari Fail? 
Introduction 
Atari, Inc. was a successful video game company in the 1980s, and it was considered as one of the establishers which founded the video game industry in US. However, such a great company suddenly collapsed in 1984, when the video game industry crash was taking place. There were even some tales that told there were some cartridges buried under the desert in New Mexico, and recently someone dug them up and proved this tale. This even create more curiosity for people: why Atari, Inc. did it? Did Atari, Inc. do something wrong in the business, or the market led the company to the collapsing. It is obvious that the video game players are interested in this topic, but the businessmen are also interested in this topic. The businessmen specially the investors care about the market decision mistakes that Atari, Inc. might make at that time, since it was really rare for such a large incorporation to fall in a few years. 
History of Atari, Inc. and video game history in 1970s and 1980s 
	Video game industry, at that time, was still a very new and rising industry. Hundreds of the companies joined the competition in order to get their pieces of market. The early industry mainly focused in the arcade game area, and Atari, Inc. took the leader in the competition. Then later on Atari, Inc. found out that it was a great chance to develop the in-home gaming area since living room is a great place to do video game and family can spend their spare time together. 
Then Atari decided to release their first video game - Atari 2600. It was a tremendous success. According to Business Week's research (2004), the total amount that the consoles were sold was thirty million. Despite the popularity of the console, Atari 2600 was also considered as a powerful and convenient console, since it could easily transplant games from arcade to the console, and also the developers could easily develop games as they wanted on this console. (Bogost & Montfort, 2009). However, later on, because they expected their two new game, Pac-Man and E.T.: the Extra-Terrestrial, to have a good market response, they made the wrong decision to use the cheap memory chips with low memory disk, and this led to the horrible performance of the game (Driscoll, 2002). This was the fuse of the Video Game Market Crash of 1983, and this issue finally led the company to collapse. 
Was it due to Atari's own wrong decision? 
Short development term 
	According to the interview (Lambie & Warshaw, 2015), Mr. Warshaw mentioned the famous failure: E.T.: the Extra-Terrestrial. He said their leader asked him if he could produce a game in only five weeks. Later on they found out they were developing the E.T. game, but they had no choice but to continue. According to the interview with Tim Mc Graw (personal communication, November 2nd, 2015), he said that it was impossible to develop a marvelous game in only five weeks. 
Ruthless attitude toward employees 
Normal large companies always give the employees substitute work after the company go bankrupt or dissolve, but according to Warshaw's interview, Atari, Inc. did not do anything for their employees after it went dissolved. Also, they said bad words at employees who had left. "We've gotten rid of all the scum." This was what Atari, Inc.'s managers said after their first group of employees had left (Sutton, Eisenhardt & Jucker, 1986). These evidences prove that Atari, Inc. treated the employees really bad. 
Bad executives selection 
Warshaw also mentioned that their leaders could not understand the process of developing video games. "If you plucked a manager out and put them in charge of a group of game programmers, you've got a situation where these people are smarter than their boss." Warshaw said. In Sutton, Eisenhardt and Jucker's paper, it was said that they hired the outside supervisors who had no experience about video games. It was really bad because if managers could not understand what their employees would do, so that they could not make right decisions when they were facing some emergency status, some of them could not even give their employees right tasks to do. 
Wrong decision of the chips 
Although this mistake was a small decision of business issue, it finally became the one of the reasons that the Video Game Market Crash happened. Atari, Inc. once wanted to use the latest chips with larger memories, since it could provide more powerful performance on the Atari 2600, especially for the games such as E.T. However, in order to save cost and produce games in a faster pace, they decided to use cheaper chips with smaller memory (Driscoll, 2002). Finally, the game quality could not meet people's expectation, and a lot of cartridges could not be sold, Atari, Inc. had nothing to do but to bury most of them into New Mexico's desert. 
Was it the market's recession? 
	It was not hard to find out that the country were facing great recession at that time: the inflation went on, a lot of people lost their jobs, and people were worrying about their living and how to earn money. But that was what the public judges the economy recession. Does the entertainment really go down when there is an economy recession? We surprising find out that when we were facing the economy recession in 2008, Iron Man's Blu-ray copies were sold 500,000 in only seven days, and it broke the record of the movie disk's selling at that time (Keegan, 2008). Moreover, the public TV channels are great ways to spend people's spare time during the recession since it costs little money and people without jobs could get access to them really easy. And as the Boston Phoenix mentioned, at that time, after the video game market crash, "after Commodore cut the retail price of the 64 to $300 in June 1983 some stores began selling it for as little as $199" (Mitchell, 1983). This proved that home video game consoles were great ways for entertainment, since they were low-priced and could help people spend their spare time. However, Atari, Inc. still failed even they had such a large market, this must be Atari's own issues. 
Conclusion 
	Due to Atari, Inc.'s wrong market and material decisions, their unscrupulous executive decisions, and the terrible management, it was understandable why such a large company collapsed in only a few years. The leaders of companies should be quite familiar with what their employees are doing and give the precise strategies instead of just thinking about making money. Also, large companies should find ways to advance instead of depending on their old technologies or ideas. 
	It also gives modern video game industry a great lesson: this industry is very competitive, when some companies is shiftless, someone else will develop more modern and advanced consoles/video games, and they will take place them in only a few years. 
	For investors, they can study that the company with an acknowledgeable leader is more potential; the company which gets rich in a short time but has no long-term view will not last their performance forever. 
Reference 
A brief history of game console warfare. (2004) Business Week, 3. Retrieved from: 
	http://www.bloomberg.com/ss/06/10/game_consoles/source/3.htm 
Sutton, R. I., Eisenhardt, K. M. & Jucker, J. V. (1986). Managing organizational decline: Lessons from Atari. Organization Dynamics, 14(4), 17-29. 
Lambie, R. & Warshaw, H. S. (2015). Howard Scott Warshaw on creating E.T. and Atari: Game over. Retrieved from Den of Geek Web site: http://www.denofgeek.com/games/howard-scott-warshaw/33708/howard-scott-warshaw-on-creating-et-and-atari-game-over 
Bogost, I. & Montfort, N. (2009). Racing the beam: The Atari 2600 platform. 8. 
Jr., D., & B., E. (2002). The Atari 2600: The Cartridge Family Rides Again. Poptronics, 23-25. 
Retrieved from 
http://web.b.ebscohost.com/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=947e88c9-566e-45c5-b700-fe1a776e3dc5%40sessionmgr120&vid=4&hid=106 
Rebecca, W. K. (2008). How will recession affect the entertainment biz? Times, TIME, 24 Oct. 2008. Web. 24 Nov. 2015.	 
Mitchell, P. W. (1983). A summer-CES report. Boston Phoenix. p. 4. 
Ltalie, L. (2015). Sales of unearthed Atari games total more than $100,000. AP Top News 
Package. Retrieved from 
http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=krh&AN=AP676577b807df40e5 
ab1cfc99fa2c7519&site=ehost-live 
WHY DID ATARI FAIL? 02 
Running head: WHY DID ATARI FAIL? 010 
