P5D3 
04/18/15 
JUNK FOOD SHOULD BE BANNED FROM DINING COURTS 
Eating right is an integral part of healthy living. The obesity rates in America has been on a rapid increase especially for the past couple of years. I gained a lot of information from my interview with a dietician and understood the difference between healthy and unhealthy eating. According to me there is no scope even to contemplate banning junk food from school/ University dining courts. It is a sure and sensible first step into building a healthy nation. A nation's future lies in the mental and physical health of the current younger generation comprising the school and college students. As I took this topic and started my research by reading articles from various resources this fact has been reinstated. More so as I got to interview some experts like an experienced nutritionist. The concern they have expressed is alarming and we should make a note that they are the people who are closer to the issue and tables their fact with the supporting statistical and factual data. 
The primary reason to ban junk food from the dining courts is the direct relationship between the junk food and obesity. Obesity in the United States has been increasing at an alarming rate and this has been cited as a major health issue in recent decades. Obesity rates in the United States are among the highest in the world. According to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) its likely that 3/4 of the American population will likely be overweight or obese by 2020. Obesity is a chronic health problem. It is one of the biggest factors for a type II diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. It is also associated with cancer (e.g. colorectal cancer), osteoarthritis, liver disease, sleep apnea, depression and other medical conditions that affect mortality and morbidity. I think this is sufficient to substantiate my support to ban junk foods. 1 
Secondly, It has been established that there is a strong relationship between poor performance and lower levels of nutrients in fast foods, especially iron. The high level of fat and sugar often found in fast-food meals also can affect attention and reaction times. So, with the easy access to the junk food from the dining courts, the students are expected to resort to these food items and because of the addictive nature of these junk foods they consume it on a regular basis. If this access is restricted by banning junk food in dining courts we could long way in streamlining the eating habits of the younger generation and thereby achieving a higher level of academic performance. 2 
Thirdly, even participation in other extracurricular activities like sports, performing arts are also affected by the regular intake of junk food. Energy required to do these are not provided by the junk food and obviously the weight gain doesn't really allow one to participate in these even if one is willing to. These activities are important especially in the shaping up years to lead a balanced life. These activities are not just beneficial on its own but help to improve the student's overall performance by improving focus, positive attitude and enabling a good social interaction too. 
Now that I've put across my views for banning junk foods, I need to analyze the views of some people who have also done extensive research and studies and still canvassing against banning junk food from the dining courts. For example one of the articles from the web cited the issue with the basic problem of defining what is junk. If wafers, soda and cookies are to be defined as junk and where should we place burgers, fish fries. Also it's argued that if there is a ban across the country it interferes with the democratic way of functioning of the educational institutes. This again is a smaller issue to be handled when compared to redefining the eating habits of an entire nation getting trapped into a more dangerous vicious circle. 
Another school of thought comes from the revenue perspective of the universities. The argument is that that the children of the current generation are brand conscious and also lured by the attractive advertisements on the media targeting the teens. They only look forward to the major brands and once the dining courts doesn't supply those, they would resort to an alternate outlet outside the campus. So, it results only in the loss of revenue to the university canteens rather than changing the eating behavior of the students. However this loss of revenue could be compensated by providing some healthy and at the same time attractive options like salads with tasty dressings, fruits with some low calorie pudding/ ice creams and some whole meal sandwiches. Fresh juices could replace carbonated drinks. Dining courts can also come out with some schemes like discounts and offers on purchase of healthy foods Yes, It might be difficult to initiate the program but once set rolling it would become the norm. And as always the younger generations are the ones with the open mind willing to change for positive reasons. 
These are my suggestions to promote healthy eating and ban junk food- we need to capitalize and initiate. It would also call for some financial aid by the state which according to me is an investment in the better future of the nation. Slowly this should progress to other sectors like media and the food outlets beyond the students' dining courts. Undoubtedly, the first step towards this major goal has to start in university dining courts. We need to learn how to differentiate between healthy and unhealthy eating and make the right choices. The best place to start this is at dining courts. 
1 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epidemiology_of_obesity 
2 https://whyevolutionistrue.wordpress.com/2015/01/19/americans-overwhelmingly-support-labelling-foods-that-contain-wait-for-it-dna/ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
