Introduction 
"That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind", were some of the greatest words ever spoken by one of Purdue's very own students. Purdue, famously known as the cradle of astronauts, is a university renowned for research and advancement in the field of Science and Technology. It has been a hub of learning, knowledge and innovation since 1869. It is clear that such an old institution could not have survived without finding means to constantly reinvent and renovate itself to keep up with the times. It is in keeping up with the need of these times, I set out to investigate the importance and relevance of general education courses at for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) majors at Purdue today. In my research I find that general education courses at Purdue continue to play an indispensable part in STEM education, while it is constantly reviewed and updated to suit the needs of today's society. 
The ever evolving workplace 
No man can live as an island. I would dare go ahead and say that no man can function as an island. As human beings we are dependent on our social structure and communication is the bridge between us and the people around us. Thus, communication skills remain an undisputed top priority for employers in today's industry. According to an interview-survey on communication responsibilities of working professionals conducted by students of North Carolina State University, 31 percent respondents reported spending an average of 31 percent of their work on writing related activities (Miller, 2004, pp. 42-43). Of these, collaboration, management review and peer review were common aspects of writing in the workplace. In general, the survey concluded that, problem solving, critical analysis, strategy, teamwork, creativity and persuasion were regarded as important dimensions of practical communication tasks in the workplace. At Purdue COM 114 and ENGL 106 specifically aim at equipping students with the necessary communication skills for life. COM 114 deals with presentational speaking and ENG 106 focuses on academic writing. These skills are an indispensable part of a STEM major. For instance, people in the scientific community constantly need to write thesis papers and academic journals. Another one is the example of the scientist who needs funds for their research. He /she might have to employ the art of making a 'persuasive presentation'. Now, if the scientist had a breakthrough in finding a cure for or effectively preventing cancer, he/she might need to make an 'informative presentation' to spread awareness amongst the local population. Thus, general education courses do have a reasonably practical role to play in any STEM majors work place and thus Purdue must continue with these courses as they will help better prepare its students for the real world. 
A genuine concern 
One of the most compelling arguments against having mandatory general education courses is that having them automatically subtracts away from the number of credits from technical courses. This would mean that students might find it harder to take an ample amount of major related courses. This can inadvertently end up delaying their graduation which would in turn cost them a lot more money. In today's world time and money are of paramount importance. However, I learned from an interview with my academic advisor, that Purdue's academic curriculum is designed so as to enable all STEM majors to graduate within 4 years. This is found by keeping a minimum requirement of 6 general education courses and a mandatory COM and ENGL course. She also mentioned that Purdue follows the University Core Curriculum which is designed with the State Core Curriculum which serves as a mandate for the courses to take at Purdue or any other University in Indiana for education. This was started in 2013, and thus constantly requires Purdue to review and upgrade their education plan to suit the needs of the students amongst other things. Thus Purdue, does keep in due consideration the relevance of these courses and the amount of them a STEM major need ideally take so as to not let these courses burden them in their technical areas of study. 
Conclusion 
As we continue to live in a fast paced technological era, it is hard to see the relevance of something which has existed for a while and question the meaningfulness of it, such is the plight of a general education course. My research leads me to the conclusion that at the moment, it is in the best interest of students at Purdue, to take these courses, considering that the effectiveness and relevance are constantly being tested and better adapted to meet the modern day requirements. They are an integral part of education and indeed, education is the very essence of Purdue and vice versa. 
Reference page 
Perelman, L. (2004). A communication-intensive Undergraduate Curriculum. In D.F. Ollis, K.A. Neeley & H.C. Luegenbiehl (Eds.), Liberal Education in Twenty-First Century Engineering (pp.64-81). New York NY: Peter Lang. 
