Zhiwei Tang (Jenny) 
Argumentative Essay 
Final Draft 
12/04/15 
Emergency Medical Care 
	Although significant advancements and achievements in modern treatments and medicines let people be able to control and solve many difficult diseases, there are still unavoidable and potential crises happening to human everyday such as SCA (Sudden Cardiac Arrest). There are 9 out of 10 victims would die without EMS (Emergency Medical Service) in few minutes, so it is a serious diseases with very high death rate. Fortunately, we have CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation) - a high effective lifesaving technique aimed to heart attack. CPR is one of essential techniques of "Emergency Medical Care" - a series of urgent artificial medical treatments for different acute diseases. This sort of treatments are known as doubling even tripling, a victim's rate of survival. Therefore, I suggest that Purdue University students should be trained on "Emergency Medical Care." However, in my research. I found some opposite opinions to my thesis. They claim that trainings on "Emergency Medical Care" in university is unnecessary. Thus, I want to use my points to refute these ideas and illustrate why it is important for university students to learn about "Emergency Medical Care." 
	Before arguments, I have done a lot of efforts on my thesis, including the literature review, interview with experts, and also my own experience about "Emergency Medical Care." As far as I see, "Emergency Medical Care" is definitely beneficial for everyone even myself. Hence, it is really important and necessary for Purdue University students to train on. Firstly, saving life, which is the most important reason to do so. Secondly, it helps Purdue University students build an awareness of social responsibility. Last, doing "Emergency Medical Care" could save the medical costs. 
	To start with the reason that "Emergency Medical Care" trainings in the university save more innocent lives. It is true that accidents will happen anytime anywhere to everybody. What we can do to save this tragedy is preparation. In Purdue University, there are thousands of students and faculty living around, which means there is a great possibility of acute diseases such as choking or SCA hiding behind. If most Purdue University students know how to deal with them, the result would be safe and relieved. However, someone may query about its necessity, because in U.S only, the victim of SCA is around 40 years old. So we don't have to worry about the hearts of the young students in Purdue University. Moreover, in the public area like Purdue Memorial Union, it is obvious to find AED (Automated external defibrillator) devices on the walls. When someone has heart attack, it is easy to apply. From my perspective, they are right, but they don't take everything into consideration. Firstly, according to the interview with [name] she told me that SCA is a disease for all ages even the infants. Although, the SCA rate of young victims is not as high as middle-aged people, there is still a possibility of risk for them and we can't ignore it because of its victim's number. Secondly, it is true that we can save people with AED devices in public area, but what if it happens on the street or the classrooms without AED devices? Furthermore, not only SCA, there are other urgent accidents like Choking. If no one knows how to use Heimlich Maneuver to treat choking people, what is the consequence? So, it is very clear to know that "Emergency Medical Care" is important and necessary without doubt. 
	Next, through training on "Emergency Medical Care," Purdue University students will establish an awareness of social responsibility and warmness. I want to illustrate it through my friend [name] story. When she was very young, she was saved by a stranger with Heimlich Maneuver treatment. At that time, she was choked by a jelly bar on the bus, and her parents were almost extremely terrified and hopeless. A young man came out and take her to his own knee, hitting on her back, until she cough out the jelly bar and regained the consciousness. After that, [name] devoted herself to the "Emergency Medical Care," and tried to save more lives just like the stranger. She gives the numerous free advertisement and training practices for spreading the importance of "Emergency Medical Care." Now, she is a nurse and also a volunteer of a non-profits emergency medical aids organization. Her experiences had influenced and motivated a lot of people to help others. So I hope that Purdue University students should be willing to accept "Emergency Medical care" training as a one of the whole society. The people who disagree with my statement would say that students should focus on academic area instead of spending time on other training. Nevertheless, I think through training "Emergency Medical Care" in Purdue University, students will know the meaning of lives, cherish every moments in their life and be responsible for the lives, which is more important for students' developments. 
	Last but not the least, "Emergency Medical Care" do save much medical cost. In the interview, [name] mentioned that some treatments of "Emergency Medical care" saves the necessity of hospital, thus decrease the medical treatments fee. Take Heimlich Maneuver as an example, when one get foreign body in their airway, they need get it out as fast as possible or they will die. In this situation, a person who know Heimlich maneuver can easily use this treatment to help him or her with over 90 percent rate of survival. However, if people call 911, in the time waiting for the ambulance, the choked person will stifle into death within a few seconds. If this lucky person successfully get saved by hospital, he or she has to pay for the first-aid fees and medicine fees. Compared to Heimlich Maneuver, it costs high medical treatment fee and the valued time for saving life. On the contrast, some people may think about the training of "Emergency Medical Care" on student will cost much more on school financial budget. It is true, but fortunately Purdue University has established the emergency treatment course at Purdue student health center many years ago. It has trained many students and faculties the basic treatments like CPR. So, we don't have to worry about the cost. 
	To sum up, in the way to develop more complete emergency medical service in Purdue University, I understand there are lots of concerns and questions about training of "Emergency Medical Care" on students. As my illustration and argumentation, training of "Emergency Medical Care" on students has three main benefits, saving people's life, establish social responsibility, and saving costs. I hope the three reasons convince people, and gain more support. 
Work Cited: 
"About SCA." About Sudden Cardiac Arrest. N. p., n. d. Web. 19 Nov. 2015. 
"Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR): First Aid." - Mayo Clinic. N. p., n. d. Web. 19 Nov. 2015. 
[name]. Personal interview. (12 Nov. 2015). 
