P5D3: Argumentative Essay 
April 27, 2015 
Physical and Health Course for first year college students 
The freshman 15 is the title that was given to the weight gain of many first year college students. Some of the causes include bad eating habits, lack of exercise and alcohol consumption. The weight gain can lead not only to physical health problem, social and academic deficiency ate also effects caused by this issue. To prevent the freshmen 15 and the effects, especially those that interfere with school, colleges and universities should require their first year students to take a physical and health education class. Although many may argue that these kinds of courses are a waste of time that could be used for more academic courses like math or science, it is important to dedicate time to prevent issues that will affect academic achievement. 
By providing an education on good nutrition habits, which is the main cause of the freshman 15, students would learn how to choose foods that are healthy for them an do not lead to weight gain. In addition, by having a balanced diet student will be able to perform better in college. According to Larissa Hirsch (2014), the freshman 15 can have negative effects on academic life because students experience a decrease of energy, attention, and concentration ability. Helping in the prevention of the freshmen 15 would also mean that diseases that can be caused by it, which Hirsch states include diabetes and obesity, would also be prevented. 
This course would also implement a required amount of hours in which the student has to participate in some form of physical activity. During college, many students do not make time for exercise and therefore they are just consuming calories but not burning them. This leads to weight gain. Evidence also suggests that exercise helps academic performance. For example, at Purdue University " more than 1,820 students who visit Purdue France A. C rdova Recreational Sports Center at least 16 times a month earned a GPA of 3. 0 or higher" (Neubert, 2013, p. 1). Based on this statement, exercise and good grades are positively correlated. 
Another factor that has an influence on weight gain is alcohol. Many college students become social drinkers or even stress drinkers. Alcohol and drug abuse is also one of the main causes of death, assaults, sexual abuse and injuries in many college campuses ("College Drinking," n.d.). It also interferes with academic life. According to the National Institution of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, one quarter of students have reported that their bad academic standings are due to alcohol abuse. Therefore teaching students about "healthy" alcohol consumption is an important topic that could be addressed in the course. 
All in all, there is a necessity of implementing a seminar and practical health course in universities in order to decrease the number of students gaining the freshman 15 and improving academic success rates. A course like this not only helps the student during college, but also in their future. The topic of the freshman 15 goes beyond the superficial physical effects. Bad habits that are not corrected early in time become difficult to eliminate later on. A student may start with 15 more pounds in college, and continue to gain weight consistently after graduation. This gives pathway to lethal conditions like cardiovascular disease, diabetes or obesity. This is why the earlier people get educated on how to practice a healthy life style; the less people will encounter these obstacles in their lifespan. 
