Draft#3 
Apr 28th 2016 
Video games have more positive effects than negative effects 
Most reported effects of video games - particularly in the popular press - appear to centre upon the alleged negative consequences (Griffiths, n.d.). It is true that almost every single person around us has been impacted by video games in bad way. when we talk about them. Since we were young, parents warm us to stay away from video games and focus more on academic study, and how video games may ruins our life. But the fact is that video games actually have more benefit than people think, we are just be blinded by public reports. When people designs video games to solve certain problems or to achieve certain skill, they will appear to be considerable useful. 
Many people believe video games can only be used as entertaining tools, but they can be used as medical treatment to certain illness. In some cases, rehabilitation can be applied with the help of video games. According to Griffiths (n.d.), he shows us a case which video games were used as a treatment tool for patients. A 13 year old boy with Erb's palsy used electronic games to improve his arm control. The author concluded that the game attracts the boy's attention, making him concentrate more on game success than on his discomfort on the palsy. The game distracts the boy's attention. Another case the same paper implies is that a time travel adventure game format is used to promote adolescents' achieve self-efficacy in HIV or AIDS. This game provides information and opportunities to high-risk people, warm them about what will happen. Safety information was received by participants, and participants get to know their ability to negotiate and conquer HIV or AIDS with potential partner(Griffiths, n.d.). 
Also, good games can help people acquire skills and conquer their weakness. For example, some people are quite poor at understanding and remembering information that people have received out of context or too long before they can make use of it (Barsalou 1999; Brown et al. 1989; Glenberg & Robertson, 1999). So in the game System Shock 2, designers put information typically found in manual throughout the game, player can acquire the right information. These information is attached to the context and appears constantly when player move through the game, make sure player have a clear idea of how these idea can be applied to that world. By playing these games again and again, people who have poor understanding and remembering skills can be improved. Another example I can think of is a game called Minecraft. I have played this game for a long time, and it is a really attractive game. Inside the game, player can deter what to build, how to build base on how they want to. Changing the single element inside of the game makes each people's game unique to others. Furthermore, this game can promote player's creative thinking. Player will try to decorate their house in different styles, or defend themselves from dangers through multiples ways. This game make players producers instead of consumers. Too often, students in schools consume, but do not produce, knowledge, and rarely get to help design the curriculum (Brown 1994). 
Other than entertainments, video games can also be used for research purpose, by using it as research tools. The reason why many people love video games is that they are attractive and full of fun. Some people believe they have the potential to be used as research value to approach learning. Some important skills may be enforced by video games, like spatial visualization ability, eye-hand co-op, and tactical thinking. Video games can be used as research tools because they have great diversity. And also they are really attractive for people which make participants focus longer in the research. Last, they are entertaining and stimulating for participants. One example is that in mid 90's, Krish and Maglio (1994) used a game called Tetris to investigate the difference in the action humans perform from a cognitive perspective. Also, video games are used to study the player and the factor that influence their experiences. Downs and Sundar (n.d.) are focusing on the psychological phenomena of people associating themselves with success and dissociating themselves from failure, and whether this happen when people playing video games as those found in social situation. They look at people's responses in gaming to facial expressions, and people reaction to other people. These research ways gave researchers what tradition experimental cannot do. 
Although video games have such useful qualities, but they can still cause addictive and make player lose self control. One of my interviewer <name> indicated that she will invest lots of money to her games. She will use the money to upgrade her items and each cost 20 to 30 dollars. The sum of that is considerable large. For a person who does not have a stable income, this is a behavior of losing self-control. 	Even most people assume video games have more negative effects on people. But the fact is, video games have more potential benefits than we think. They can be used as research tools, treatment for illness people or tools to help people overcome weakness. We should widely use their good to overcome what bad they have on us. 
Reference: 
Calvillo,E,G, (2011,March,11) Introduction to special issue: Video games as 	research instruments. Retrieved from :	http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875952111000218 
David., Paul. M, (1994) On distinguishing epistemic from pragmatic action, 	Cognitive Science . 
James.P.G. (2003, October). Computer in Entertainment, Vol. 1, No. 1. ACM. 
Retrieved from http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=950595 . 
Mark. G (2002). Education for health change in training & practice. Vol. 20(3) 
P. 47 from http://delivery.acm.org 
