Argumentative Paper, Draft 3 
Engl10600i 
4/23/2016 
Is Computer Science Technology Changing the Third World? 
Speaking of computer science, the first thing people have in their mind is probably their fancy smartphones and laptops, and those who study the computer science are mostly likely to be programmers in the future. However, that's not entirely true. By definition, Computer science is the study of the design and operation of computer hardware and software, and the application of computer technology to science, and business (Mifflin, 2002). In other words, computer science is all about to find and create the methods for computers to use. 
Computer science has completely changed our way of life since the last decade, mostly by providing high- technology devices. Through our laptops or smartphones, we can get all kinds of information, from daily weather report to academic studying, just move your fingertips there will be thousands of articles for you to choose. And checking the social network, surfing the Internet, even writing a paper like this become a part of our life. There is no doubt computer science has brought changes and conveniences to the modern world. 
But how about those countries which cannot keep the pace with the modern age? They are usually those less economically advanced countries of Africa Asia and Latin America. We can call them "the third world" or "developing world". Some people may argue that the computer science technology cannot help those who are still struggling for the basic living necessities like food and water. But in my point of view, computer science is changing the developing world in many aspects. 
First of all, I want to point out the most common reason which makes many people against my side: According to the explanation of the third world I gave in the last paragraph, the third world countries economy should be less advanced than the rest of the world. The people there won't benefit from computer science if they can't afford the devices based on it due to the low income. 
I admit that the economic situation in the third world is really far behind, but in fact people there can still afford to reach their hands to the devices which use computer science technology. During my interview with professor <name> (personal communication, March 3,2016), I acknowledged that due to the rapid development of computer science, those outdated electronic devices start becoming worthless. If you search "cheap computer" on the Amazon, you will find out those desktops from 10 years ago only sold around 50 dollars. The device third world can use is very far behind and limited compared to ours, but you cannot deny that they do have the access to the technology. 
So how exactly is computer science changing the third world? I want to start with talking about the starvation. Computer science has a huge impact on solving the starvation in the third world. In my environment science class, I have learned that the cause of starvation is not the lack of food, but the poor distribution. The government does have plenty of food from their farm and the help from other countries, but they don't have the ability to allocate it properly because of the limited transportation. And the people there don't have the information about where to get food. But this starts changing when the Internet becomes available. Nowadays more and more people are able to check where is the nearest food allocation station and even how to get there through the Internet, which means the distribution inequality is getting smaller and smaller. It's only a matter of time for everyone to get enough food and overcome the starvation. 
Besides the hunger, sanitation situation is also changed by the computer science. According to professor <name> (personal communication, March 3,2016), the dirty water is one of the major causes of bad sanitation. And the dirty water is caused by failing control of pollution sources. For example, assessments done by the Third World Centre for Water Management indicate that at present no more than about 12 - 14 per cent of point sources of 6 wastewater in Latin America are collected, adequately treated and then discharged to the environment in a safe manner. In other words, even in 2010, more than 85% of wastewater in Latin America is being inadequately treated (Biswas, Tortajada, Braga, &Rodriguez, 2006). Such an independent and objective assessment simply does not exist for Africa and Asia at present, but it can be said with some degree of confidence that the situation in Asian developing countries is probably similar to Latin America, and it is probably somewhat worse for Africa (Biswas & Tortajada, 2011). 
But on the other hand, the computer science has actually helped controlling pollution for a long time. Back to more than 30 years ago, Philadelphia was using its computer facilities to help develop and evaluate sensors vital to wastewater process control. It has aided in sensor development and has brought people one step closer to automation of our treatment facilities (Guarino, 1972). 
Philadelphia is no third world, but this case happened in 1966. Even it was at that time, computer played a game-changing role in the pollution control. If the developing world starts using the same methods and technology we are using 10 years ago, the sanitation level will have dramatic differences. 
Surprisingly, getting sanitation right can have a positive effect on economic growth. Improved sanitation in developing countries typically yields about USD $9 worth of economic benefit for every USD $1 spent, an impressive ratio. The benefits include saving time, reducing direct and indirect health costs, increasing the return on investments in education, and safeguarding water resources (Branham, 2012). In other words, the computer science is indirectly recover the economy in developing worlds. 
During the interview, Professor <name> (personal communication, March 3,2016) claimed that not only the living conditions, but also the democracy can make a huge progress. I have to admit the fact that even today most of the third world countries are suffering dictatorship, 20 in Africa and 19 in Asia to be precise (Current world dictators,2016). But it won't be long. Access to information through a vibrant media system has long been recognized as an essential element in well-functioning democracies. Free access to information and a free press serve as a check on government, aid in transparency, reduce corruption, allow for debate and criticism of government decisions, and provide citizens with an input into political processes between elections (Etling, Faris & Palfrey, 2010). This indicates that when the people in a place there start using the internet for the political use, it means this country is on its way to a healthy democracy approach. Democracy is huge and abstract to talk about, also being effected by many other aspects, but we can see computer science is able to make a difference. 
However, some people may still argue that people in the third world don't have the ability to use those devices due to the poor education, but I disagree. In fact, in South Africa, the cellphone ownership surged from 33 per cents to almost 90 per cents in the last decades. Text and phone call was already the most popular activity and several countries even have already started popularizing the mobile money (Pew Research Center, 2015). This clearly shows that people there understand the basic function of the cell phone and is able to apply them into the daily life. With such high percent of ownership, how to use a cell phone becomes a common knowledge rather than a matter of education. In other words, the argument that people can't use computer science based device is wrong. 
In conclusion, with more and more cellphones and personal computers reach the hands of people in the third world, computer science's role in changing the third world is more and more important. It's accelerating the progress of solving major living problem like starvation and sanitation, boost the economy and push the third world towards the democracy as well. Now I strongly believe that the computer science technology is not only changing our way of life, but also helping those who is suffering. Computer science is changing the third world. 
Reference 
Pew Research Center (Apr.15, 2015). Cell Phone in South Africa: Communication Lifeline. Retrieved from: http://www.pewglobal.org/2015/04/15/cell-phones-in-africa-communication-lifeline/ 
Houghton M (2002). The American Heritage Science Dictionary. Retrieved from: 
http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/computer-science 
Lindsay B (Oct.11, 2012). Introduction to the crisis of clean water & sanitation. Retrieved from: 
https://www.globalcitizen.org/en/content/introduction-to-the-crisis-of-clean-water-sanitati/ 
Biswas, A.K., Tortajada, C., Braga, B., Rodriguez, D.J. (Eds.). (2006). Water Quality Management in the Americas. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg. 
Asit, K. B. & Cecilia, T. (2011). Water Quality Management: An Introductory Framework, International Journal of Water Resources Development, 27:1, 5-11. 
Retrieved from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/07900627.2010. 547979 
Bruce, E., Robert, F and John, P. (2010), Political Change in the Digital Age: The Fragility and Promise of Online Organizing. 
Retrieved from: 
https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/4609956 
C. F. GUARINO, The Use of Computer Science in Philadelphia's Water Pollution Control Activities, Water Research Pergamon Press 1972. Vol. 6, pp. 597-600 
Retrieved from: 
http://ac.els-cdn.com/0043135472901601/1-s2.0-0043135472901601-main.pdf?_tid=826e7d62-ffb1-11e5-a667-00000aab0f27&acdnat=1460357536_65dc24fb1af5893fa493a6d2f6a82f0d 
Current World Dictators. (2016). Current Heads of State & Dictators. Retrieved from: 
http://www.planetrulers.com/current-dictators/ 
