P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 27, 2015 
Pilots should manipulate the airplane to improve the safety of airplanes 
Nowadays, the number of people who would like to choose airplane as their transportation for business or traveling is increasing. Taking airplanes has become a part of our daily life. Meanwhile, with the air crashes happened among these months, people started to concern about the safety of the airplane. To figure out how to make the plane safer, one important way is to let pilots manipulate the airplane instead of handing all the tasks to the computers. 
The computers are becoming more powerful with the development of technology, and the programmers even designed the programs that can replace the pilots to control the airplane. At the beginning of the invention of airplane, the pilots had to do so many tasks to take off the airplane and control it while it's in the sky. Then, people had computers to assist them to make the flight easier for the pilots. However, it is not a good idea when people decide to use unmanned aircraft now. Computers are able to be helpful for pilots to fly the planes, but pilots cannot be replaceable. About this argument, I conducted an interview with Professor <name> few weeks ago, and he noted that when the pilots rely too much on the computers, they will lose their flying skills, which will contribute to the disability of handling emergencies. Moreover, Reuters also claimed that, "When the computers are unable to perform their tasks, control is automatically handed to the pilots who must fall back on training and fly manually, in so-called "alternate" mode", so it is crucial for the pilots to maintain their flying skills to prepare for the any possible situations. 
One more reason why that the pilots should not be replaced is that the computers cannot take the responsibility of hundreds of people's lives. I do not think there are many people who would like to give their lives to the machine. For some emergencies, for example, if the airplane gets hacked, and the person who hacks the airplane wants to go to another place for his/her purposes, but the computers can only follow the previous settings. Will the plane hacker do some crazy things that threat the life of the passengers on board? No one knows, so the airlines cannot just hand hundreds of lives to the computers, because the computers will not consider people's lives and the only the thing they will do is following the code and then finish the flight. 
However, someone might say that computers should replace the pilots, because computers are more accurate than people, and the tasks like flying a plane require that kind of accuracy. While I disagree with that opinion. First, the computers are man-made and they are not perfect and sometimes they still fail, like anyone's PC. Once the computers crash, if there is no pilot on the plane, the chance of saving the people on board is nearly zero. In addition, what's more, it is possible that we can train the pilots more strictly to make them to be as accurate as computers. When the pilots can be accurate like computers, the computers are only the tools to assist the pilots instead of the dominators of the plane. Consequently, the pilotless aircraft is surely not safe, and the computer is not always better than human, because humans are able to act differently depending on different situations. 
In summary, the pilots should manipulate the airplane for the most of time, and they can use computer to assist them to analyze the statue of the airplane. Computers can do other jobs that people cannot do, for example, supervise all the equipment. The computers can also detect every part of the aircraft to make sure that the airplane works perfectly. If there is anything wrong with the engines or any main part of the airplane, the computers will know it and send warnings to the pilots, and let the pilots decide the next step. However, computer can never replace the pilots. There are still some exceptions, like aircrafts for delivery, but for commercial airplanes, it is irresponsible to let computer control the airplane, because pilots still need to maintain their flying skills to face different emergencies that the computers cannot deal with, and passengers need to be taken care of by human instead of computers. 
The safety of the airplane is significant, because it is related to almost everyone, and there are many ways that can make the airplane safer. One way that is pretty useful and important is to improve the quality of the pilots by training them more strictly to get the computers' accuracy and maintain the ability to face different emergencies simultaneously. Maybe one day when computers are able to judge various situations like human, it is possible for them to replace the pilots. But for now, replacing the pilots by computer is definitely detrimental for the safety of the commercial airplane. 
Reference 
Reuters, (2015, January 28). Computer glitch leading to pilot error may have caused Air Asia crash. Retrieved from: http://www.scmp.com/news/asia/article/1693965/airasia-crash-investigators-focus-possible-computer-glitch-may-have-led 
3 
PILOTS SHOULD MANIPULATE THE AIRPLANE 
