P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 27, 2015 
Lab Research Helps Undergraduate Students Prepare For Graduate School 
Nowadays, more and more STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) major students get involved in undergraduate research. As a biology major student, I worked in a lab conducting tumor stem cell research in the summer after my sophomore year. Almost everyone around me who is biology major has such experience doing lab research, though the length of time varies. Biology major students may choose to go into industry, apply to graduate school, or apply to medical or dental school. To prepare for different future paths, students are supposed to do specific type of work. For students who want to apply to graduate school, it is important to do lab research in order to become good candidates. 
First, it is important for undergraduate students preparing for graduate school to do lab research because such experience helps them train experimental skills. In labs, students' experimental skills, which are very useful after they enter graduate schools, can get well trained. Entering graduate school is the start of doing research. To succeed in research, students need not only plenty of knowledge in their brains, also great experimental skills to help them get reliable data and results. Since graduate students are supposed to get paid by professors who own labs and act as mentors, those professors would more likely admit students who already possess the ability to do experiments well. That lowers risks for professors to pay extra money while students are learning something they could have learned during undergraduate. Also, when applying to graduate schools, students are required to provide a personal statement in which their lab experience and experimental skills should be listed. If a student lacks such experience, he/she might not even be considered by some schools at the first place. 
Second, undergraduate students should do lab research in order to get letters of recommendation from their mentors. Many graduate school require applicants provide several letters of recommendation, one or two of which have to be written by the professor as a research mentor. Dr. Stauffacher said the best way to get letters of recommendation is to work in a lab (Personal Communication, March 25th, 2015). Undergraduate students should work hard and communicate with their mentors frequently to let mentors know them better. Only if the mentor knows the student well can he/she write a long letter listing the abilities the student has and why the student is a good candidate for graduate school. Such letters could be powerful for students to get admissions because students applying to graduate school usually have a high GPA and those letters could help them stand out from their competitors. 
Third, lab research can help students learn about life of doing research and find out what field they are interested in. Mattew Paoletti (as cited in Webb, 2007) applied for a summer undergraduate research position to find out what a career in doing research would be like and decided to go to graduate school and set research as his future career. For most students who decide to go to graduate school, research might be their career choice. It is important to know about how life of scientists and researchers is like. Some students might find themselves not that into such kind of life so they could change their minds before it is too late. For students who would like to devote their lives to research, they need to pick a certain field and stick to it. However, the best way for students to know if they are interested in a field is to go into that field and experience it. If students join a graduate program because they think they might like it, chances are that they find it not as interesting as they thought. So doing undergraduate lab research helps students find what they would like to do in the future and they can focus on applying to programs that focus on certain fields. 
Though doing undergraduate research has many benefits and most students are doing it, there are a few students complaining that lab work takes so much time that they cannot get enough time to focus on their courses. As for me, I do not think this should become a problem. First, if I think lab work takes too much time for me, I would talk to my mentor about it and see if I could shorten the time I work in the lab. Most mentors understand that undergraduates have many classes to take and GPA is important for them. Those mentors would not force students to work for too long even when they know that students have much other work to do. Even if some student happens to be working for a professor who is not so understanding, it is easy to transfer to another lab because there are plenty of professors in the college. Furthermore, students do not necessarily need to do lab research during the semester. They can choose to work full time during summer. Also, lab work is actually the application of knowledge and theories learned in classes. Doing experiments can help students better understand what they learn in classes, thus getting a good grade. 
Overall, lab research experience is very important for undergraduate students who want to apply to graduate school. Such experience helps students train their experimental skills and get fancy letters of recommendation from professors. It also gives students a chance to learn better about what they truly like. However, students should mainly get focused on their classes and let lab work help them understand theories rather than make lab research an excuse for their bad performance in classes. 
Reference 
Webb, S.A. (2007, June). The importance of undergraduate research. The Job Market. Retrieved from http://sciencecareers.sciencemag.org/career_magazine/previous_issues/articles/2007_07_06/caredit.a0700095 
LAB RESEARCH HELPS UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS PREPARE FOR GRADUATE SCHOOL 		 3 
