Yu-Shen (Kevin) Lin 
P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 23, 2015 
Why Should Students Learn to Play a Musical Instrument? 
It shouldn't be a surprise when one hears that learning to play a musical instrument is beneficial to the learners. In fact, many parents strategically put their child/children through musical lessons because they believe in that saying. Over the years, researchers and scientists have come up with enough evidence and data to support this claim. Studying music not only allows children to perform better in a classroom setting, it also enhances their development in many aspects. As a result, parents should encourage children to practice an instrument because it improves children's academic performances. 
	Learning to play a musical instrument can improve learners' academic performances because it helps students to focus in a classroom setting. According to Northwestern University's Auditory Neuroscience professor Nina Kraus, "Students who played instruments in class had more improved neural processing . [and they] demonstrate[d] better concentration and attendance" (as cited in Locker, 2014, para. 5). Since playing an instrument requires players to simultaneously focus on notes, duration, volume and much more, students subconsciously learn how to avoid distraction. This skill allows students to concentrate more during academic lessons and thus advance their learning. Moreover, as Spark mentioned in her article, the data from Society of Neuroscience indicates that instrument learners are superior in "decision making, memorization, and [in] the speed [of] which they process information" (Sparks, 2013, para. 2). All these skills are essential to one's academic success. As these areas strengthen, students could perform better academically than those who don't know how to play an instrument. Therefore, children should be encouraged to learn to play an instrument because it enhances their ability to concentrate and thus improves their academic performances. 
	Practicing music is not an easy task. While learners are utilizing their brains to focus on different areas, they are in fact training their brains as well. Consequently, learning to play a musical instrument can improve one's academic performance because it boosts one's brain development. Sparks suggested that as learners are playing their instruments, plasticity is created to benefit "brain regions responsible for cognition and behavior," as well as to advance their "multitasking [skills] and [the] ability to create new ideas" (Sparks, 2013, para. 4). Since musicians are free to express their music as they prefer, they are trained to think outside the box with given information and encouraged to approach situations differently. When utilizing these skills in a classroom setting, students are more likely to academically outshine peers without instrumental trainings. Moreover, Locker suggested that after learning to play an instrument, the high school graduate rate increased to 93%, which dramatically contrasted with the previous 50% dropout rate in a low-income neighborhood (Locker, 2013, para. 9). These significant statistics highlight the efficiency of instrument learning, which further indicate that children should learn to play an instrument because it will result in greater academic success. 
	Musicians are often asked to memorize sheet music. While doing so, they are gaining a critical skills required for further academic success. Hence, students should study music because it will increase their memory capacity. When learners are memorizing sheet music, they are not simply memorizing the notes, but also the emotion and quality associated with it. During the time, learners improve upon their "visuospatial and nonverbal memory" (Cole, 2014, para. 9). Students may easily utilize these skills in a classroom setting to memorize not only what's on the board, but also the meaning and the related information. As Cole expressed in her article, learning to play an instrument can "help defend memory loss and cognitive decline" (Cole, 2014, para. 2). She also indicated that doing so can as well strengthen one's memorizing skills. With a more advanced memorization, one may succeed relatively easier than those who don't play an instrument. As a result, children should learn to play an instrument because it can enhance memorization and thus improve their grades. 
	Although practicing music has numerous benefits, it is common for one to think that the process of learning to play an instrument is extremely time consuming and may potentially be detrimental to children's academic performances. While it is true that it takes time to master an instrument, the data and results reflect on how any instrument player, not only a good musician, can gain all those benefits. In fact, according to Cole, over 6 months period, those who have received music lessons already demonstrated better "verbal fluency and planning ability" (Cole, 2014, para. 20). Even if one decides to spend more time practicing, studies have shown that the amount of time of which one dedicates to music is positively correlated to the benefit gained. In other words, the more one practices, the more benefit one gains. Furthermore, practicing an instrument can also improve one's time management skill. Purdue University's Glee Club director <name> expressed that musical organizations usually require students to maintain a certain GPA in order to stay in the group. While it is not acceptable to sacrifice grades for rehearsals, students are forced to balance between music and school. <name> also claimed that the Glee Club has one of the highest overall GPA in the university (personal communication, Feb 17, 2015). Consequently, learning to play an instrument will improve one's time management skill, which will ultimately improve one's academic performance in the long run. 
	As a result, parents should encourage children to learn to play an instrument because it helps them concentrate more, boosts their brain development, increases their memory capacity and gives them better time management skills. All these benefits are essential to one's academic success and will significantly improve one's academic performance. With the belief that greater academic success leads to better life in the future, parents should think of ways to get their children to start learning an instrument earlier, so they can start receiving the benefits as soon as possible. 
Reference 
Cole, D. (2014, January 3). Your aging brain will be in better shape if you've taken music 			lessons. National Geographic. http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/				2014/01/140103-music-lessons-brain-aging-cognitive-neuroscience/ 
Locker, M. (2014, December 16). This is how music can change your brain. 				Time. http://time.com/3634995/study-kids-engaged-music-class-for-benefits-			northwestern/ 
Sparks, S. (2013, November 25). Music training sharpens brain pathways, studies say. 			Education Week. http://www.edweek.org/ew/articles/2013/11/25/13music.h33.html 
BENEFITS OF PLAYING AN INSTRUMENT 
3 
