Personal and Professional Development by studying abroad 
The debate on whether students should study abroad has become a hot topic among Malaysians. As the number of college graduates increases every year, the competition between them in the job market seeking for job becomes more intense. Difficulty in searching for jobs had led to Malaysian students studying abroad to seek for better tertiary education because they think that an international education will give them positive impact on their personal, professional and academic life. In my opinion, studying abroad is a beneficial to Malaysian students because it will determine their career path. An international education will help them with their personal and academic growth as well as provide them with an intercultural development and education and career attainment. Therefore, Malaysian students should study abroad to seek for improvements. 
Studying abroad gives students the opportunity to achieve their education goal which is to perform well academically and socially in college. According to Ming(2010), an international education will provide students with a chance to experience a better and different style of education. Huiyee Tan, an alumnus of Purdue University praised the academic program of Purdue University by saying "I choose to come to Purdue University to seek for a better education because Purdue University is renowned for it's excellence in academic reputation." The variety of choices of programs and majors' choices at an American university provides the student the freedom to choose the majors in which they want to pursue their degree which will allow them to perform better academically and look at the world from different perspectives. Findings show that studying abroad motivates students to expand their academic majors by seeking for internship programs. It also has opened up an entire range of professional opportunities for the students due to skills and internships they gained. A case study in Malaysia shows that big international corporations prefer employees with international degrees because of the students' technical skills, soft skills, and good exposure in a foreign country. With such evidence shown above, I believe that an international institution will provide Malaysian students with a good education system and more job opportunities. 
International education also facilitates the intercultural development of Malaysian students. Coming from Malaysia, a multicultural and multiracial country, I realize the importance of respecting others' cultures and traditions. Pyvis & Chapman (2007) found studying abroad helped students experience and understand the mixture of ethnicities, which contribute to their developing of views of the world. Huiyee Tan mentioned that one of her professors at Purdue University encouraged her to interact with her classmates through class activities which helped her to know more about their differences in their cultures and beliefs. Being in a foreign institution also pushed her to seek out a greater diversity of friends to explore their cultures. These experience and network of friends are crucial for students' future because more and more multinational corporations are hiring students with international degrees. 
Pursuing a degree in a foreign institution also motivates students' personal growth. Studying abroad serves as a catalyst for increasing maturity. This is because students learnt to be more independent and disciplined. Huiyee Tan stated that studying in a foreign country forced her to live out of her comfort zone and therefore be more independent and disciplined. She needs to plan ahead for homework assignments, team meetings and exams. Although being alone in a new place can be overwhelming, the studying abroad experience examines the students' ability to adapt to diverse situations while being able to solve problems on their own. 
With studying abroad offering students so many benefits such as enhancing their personal and professional growth, providing them with an intercultural development as well as education attainment. Malaysian students should consider studying abroad when seeking for tertiary education. Based on my one-year personal experience at Purdue University for a year, the knowledge and experience I acquired has changed me into a more independent and well-equipped person. I would recommend Malaysian students to study abroad for a better education. Although there are some disadvantages studying abroad such as costly tuition fee and distance away from home, with the abovementioned benefits I strongly believe that the advantages of studying abroad outweighs the disadvantages and therefore I recommend Malaysian students to study abroad for a better education. 
