The Impact of Fashion on Teenagers 
April 9, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author Note 
The Impact of Fashion on Teenagers 
During my past months I have been researching about the positive and negative effects that fashion has on people especially teenagers. I have come with cons and pros about fashion. However, the cons were stronger than the pros. For this final project I want to show people the negative effects but find a solution for them to overcome those effects and approach fashion without getting hurt. At the end of this project my goal is to let teenagers know that they can make their own style, that they can dress how they want and still be in style, like designer Versace said "Don't be into trends. Don't make fashion own you, but you decide what you are, what you want to express by the way you dress and the way you live." 
Teenagers are really concerned about how they look and what people think about them. They take it as a way to fit in, so they use clothing as an excuse to be part of something instead of a way to express their feelings. This is when the problem begins for them because they try to become the people on magazines; they try to have the "perfect body" for the sake of looking good on clothes and fitting in between their peers on school. Turner, Hamilton, Jacobs, Angood and Dwyer (1997) proved this type of behavior. They proved that the people who read more fashion magazines were more worried about the weight and the fear of not being at least an average body type, in contrary to the ones who read news magazines. 
We understand that teenagers have become really materialistic and are more worried for what people think about them, than being themselves. And fashion takes a big part in the materialistic world. Studies have shown that materialism makes people feel lonely and unhappy. " An experimental study showed that highly materialistic US adolescents who received an intervention that decreased materialism also experienced increases in self-esteem over the next several months, relative to a control group." (Kasser et al. 2013). As a teenager myself I know how teenagers want to show off what they have, the brand new purse or the brand new shoes, etc. I think teenagers shouldn't be worrying to much about having the new trend of clothes but they should state their own sense of style. Part of this behavior are the parents of the teenagers who don't know how to educate their children in a world were material things are one of the most important things. 
Another reason for teenagers to think in this way is that people judge. People judge you for what you are wearing, for first impressions, which is more of a physical evaluation of the other person. Researchers Howlet, Pine, Orackcioglu and Fletcher (2013), who researched about explain about the influence of apparel in first impressions, they support my statement saying: 
We conclude that even apparently minor modifications to clothing style can have a major impact on the information conveyed to perceivers. People are judged on their overall head-to-toe appearance within seconds, and the fundamental role that choice of apparel plays in creating a positive first impression cannot be underestimated. 
This proves that people judge you for the most minimum things of your appearance especially for the cloth you are wearing. That is why teenagers don't feel in their right to wear different type apparel, they are afraid of people's comments. 
Finally, for all of these reasons I think that fashion has its negative effects but it is on people's hands to make of fashion a negative thing or a positive thing. Fashion can also be a way to express yourself, your feelings and your way of thinking. To learn how to approach fashion in a positive way, first we should educate people to stop judging other people for what they are wearing and focus more in their personalities and abilities rather than in their appearance. We should teach teenagers to overcome the negative effects of fashion by making them realize that they don't have to be or look like the person of the magazines and that the media should cover more of the "love your own type of body" campaigns. 
