Why did Atari Fail? 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
Atari, Inc. was considered as one of the largest companies in US during the late 1970s and early 1980s. However, they finally failed due to their own wrong business decisions. This argumentative essay will mainly focuses on the reasons for this failure: the short develop term, the bad attitude toward the employees and the wrong component and executive decisions. Some may say that the failure was caused by the terrible economy status at that time. 
Why did Atari Fail? 
Introduction 
	Video game, at that time, was still a very new and rising industry. Hundreds of companies joined the competition in order to get pieces of the market. The early industry mainly focused on the arcade game area, and Atari, Inc. took the leader position in the competition. Then Atari decided to release their first video game console - Atari 2600. It was a tremendous success. According to Business Week (A brief history of game console warfare, 2004), the total amount that the consoles were sold was thirty million. Despite its popularity, Atari 2600 was also considered a powerful and convenient console, because it could easily transplant games from arcade to home, and also the developers could easily develop games as they wanted on this console. (Bogost & Montfort, 2009). However, later on, because they expected their two new game, Pac-Man and E.T.: the Extra-Terrestrial to have a good market response, they made the wrong decision to use the cheap memory chips with low memory disk, and this led to the horrible performance of the game (Driscoll, 2002). This issue finally led the company to the failure. 
	 It is obvious that the video game players are interested in this topic, but the businessmen are also interested in this topic. The businessmen specially the investors care about the market decision mistakes that Atari, Inc. might make at that time, since it was really rare for such a large incorporation to fall in a few years. Why Atari, Inc. failed? Did Atari, Inc. do something wrong in the business, or the market made the company to the collapse? It is obvious that the video game players are interested in this topic, but businessmen may also be interested in this topic. The businessmen specially the investors care about the market decision mistakes that Atari, Inc. might make at that time, since it was really rare for such a large incorporation to fall in a few years. In my opinion, Atari, Inc. failed because of their own wrong business decisions. It was due to their short game develop term, the rude attitude towards employees, the bad management selections, and the wrong material selections. 
Was it due to Atari's own wrong decision? 
	A very successful video game must go with the very long development term. However, in the interview (Lambie & Warshaw, 2015), Mr. Warshaw said Atari's famous failure: E.T.: the Extra-Terrestrial. He said their leader asked him if he could produce a game in only five weeks. Later on they found out they were developing the E.T. game, but they had no choice but to continue. According to my interview with <name> he said that it was impossible to develop a marvelous game in only five weeks (personal communication, November 2nd, 2015). 
Atari, Inc. not only gave the employees very short development term, but also had very bad attitude toward the employees. Normal large company always gives the employees substitute work after the company go bankrupt or dissolve, but according to Warshaw's interview, Atari, Inc. did not do anything for their employees after it dissolved. Also, the company said bad words about employees who had left. "We've gotten rid of all the scum." Stated by Atari, Inc.'s managers after their first group of employees had left (Sutton, Eisenhardt & Jucker, 1986). These evidences shows that Atari, Inc. treated the employees really bad. 
Despite the arrogant management towards the employees, a company always needs good executives in order to keep the system working. However, Warshaw mentioned that their leaders could not understand the process of developing video games: "If you plucked a manager out and put them in charge of a group of game programmers, you've got a situation where these people are smarter than their boss." Warshaw said. In Sutton, Eisenhardt and Jucker (1986), it was said that they hired the outside supervisors who had no experience with video games. It was really bad because if managers could not understand what their employees will do, so that they could not make right decisions when they were facing some emergency status, some of them could not even give their employees right tasks. 
In addition, Atari, Inc. had very bad decisions about the components of the video game cartridges. Although this mistake was a small decision of business issue, it finally became the one of the reasons that the Video Game Market Crash happened. Atari, Inc. once wanted to use the latest chips with larger memories, since it could provide more powerful performance on the Atari 2600, especially for the games such as E.T. However, in order to save cost and produce games at a faster pace, they decided to use cheaper chips with smaller memory (Driscoll, 2002). Finally, the game quality could not meet people's expectation, and a lot of cartridges could not be sold. Atari, Inc. had nothing to do but to bury most of them into New Mexico's desert. 
Was it the market's recession? 
	It was not hard to find out that the country were facing great recession at that time: the inflation went on, a lot of people lost their jobs, and people were worrying about their living and how to earn money. But that was how the public judges the economic recession. Does the entertainment really go down when there is an economy recession? Surprisingly, when we were facing the economy recession in 2008, Iron Man's Blu-ray copies sold 500,000 in only seven days, and it broke the record of the movie disk's selling at that time (Keegan, 2008). Also, according to the boxofficemojo's statistics in 1983 (which is the same year when the Video Game Crash happened), Return of the Jedi finally earned $252,583,617(Total grosses of all movies released in 1983, 1983), and based on my estimate, this meant nearly eighty million people went to the cinema to watch the movie. Moreover, the public TV channels are great ways to spend people's spare time during the recession since it costs little money and people without jobs could get access to them really easy. And as the Boston Phoenix mentioned, at that time, after the video game market crash, "after Commodore cut the retail price of the 64 to $300 in June 1983 some stores began selling it for as little as $199" (Mitchell, 1983). This proved that home video game consoles were great ways for entertainment, since they were low-priced and could help people spend their spare time. However, Atari, Inc. still failed even they had such a large market, this must be Atari's own issues. 
Conclusion 
	Due to Atari, Inc.'s wrong market and component decisions, their unwise executive decisions, and the terrible management, it was understandable why such a large company collapsed in only a few years. The leaders of companies should be quite familiar with what their employees are doing and give the precise strategies instead of just thinking about making money. Also, large companies should find ways to advance instead of depending on their old technologies or ideas. Atari's failure also gives modern video game industry a great lesson: this industry is very competitive, when some companies make no progress, someone else will develop more modern and advanced consoles/video games, and they will replace them in only a few years. Besides, they can study that the company with an acknowledgeable leader is more potential; the company which gets rich in a short time but has no long-term view will not last their performance forever. 
	If Atari, Inc. had not made wrong decisions of the components and their executives, and gave the producers long development term, they would have survived much longer. However, there is no "if" in real world. All the offspring can do is to learn from what Atari, Inc. did and try to avoid the mistakes that Atari made. 
