Apr.18,2016 
What Are the Key Ways of Women Protection Against Sexual Violence in Conflict Areas? 
Most anthropologists think that human being used to live in a female-dominated society at first. The dominion shifted from women to men due to the simplest reason----that men have the physical advantages comparatively superior to women. However, the history inherited the gender disparities since women did not have the right to vote, hold public office or serve in the military in Rome. Throughout the history, monarchs or powerful part were used to using violence to reveal their authorities. Violence and wars are the most efficient way to take control. As we all know, wars always work as a tool to invade lands, plunder resources and finally devastate spirit of the opponents. Raping women can be a useful tool in warfare to trample on civilians. Sexual violence in the warfare seems a common phenomenon and an inevitable consequence of wars. The absence of justice and thought of impunity toward sexual violence make the whole situation severer. 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court listed sexual violence as a category of the crimes against humanity. That is to say, sexual violence not only violates the morality but also breach the internationally-recognized rules and regulations. 
The term "sexual violence" refers to rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, forced sterilization and any other form of sexual violence of comparable severity perpetrated against women (men and children are also included but not in the range of this discussion.) 
"women and girls are particularly targeted by the use of sexual violence, including as a tactic of war to humiliate, dominate, instill fear, disperse and/or forcibly relocate civilian members of a community or ethnic group." (Resolution, par.2) Therefore, the international society demands an immediate and effective cessation by all parties of armed conflict and acts of sexual violence against women to protect women's rights. Although people would argue that it is a multi-dimension problem to be solved. Besides, there must be different and complicated ways to protect women from sexual violence in conflict areas. The main and most efficient ways should be in two aspects: the accurate understanding of sexual violence in conflict areas, laws and conventions. 
I. 
In March 2007, the United Nations Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict body was launched to coordinate efforts across 13 United Nations entities and increase efforts to end sexual violence during and in the wake of armed conflict. In January 2010, United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, appointed Margot Wallstr m as his Special Representative on sexual violence in conflict. Further, in December 2010, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 1960, which called for commitments to "enhance data collection and analysis of incidents, trends and patterns of rape and other forms of sexual violence" to improve targeting and policy response. 
These coordinated efforts to influence policy and the call for rigorous research including enhanced data collection on wartime sexual violence are long overdue. Actually, our understanding of sexual violence dynamics is still limited. Despite this acknowledgment, flawed estimates are often released by "well-intentioned" actors for the desire to provide numbers about the magnitude of violence. 
Sources of bias and limitations specific to research on wartime sexual violence are numerous but can be broadly categorized into macro-level (or institutional) and micro-level (or individual) constraints. Among the macro-level constraints are logistical barriers to collect large-scale nationally-representative surveys and the break-down of routine reporting systems during conflict. As a result, the majority of available databases of estimates in conflict areas come from reports of law enforcement authorities or record reviews at health facilities namely the number of victims in Rwanda Genocide ranges from 250,000 to 500,000, which we would never know the accurate number. Estimates from these sources are typically lower than the true prevalence of sexual violence because they capture only cases that were reported or where medical attention was sought, which are often only a fraction of the true incident. 
Perhaps less recognized, another institutional constraint lies in the supply of rigorous research. So far, sexual violence has often been sidelined as a "feminist" research agenda, and many studies have been small in scale or qualitative descriptions and therefore not generalizable. Rigorous, high quality, micro-level data, including panel data is rarely available, as sexual violence information is notoriously hard to be collected due to myriad micro-level constraints. Sexual violence in household surveys is often underreported due to stigma, shame and fear of disclosure to partners and families. Researchers seeking to collect violence data must be committed to additional training of field staff on sensitivity of interview administration, ethics reviews and referral procedures. Further, household surveys cannot capture individuals who have been displaced or who died as a result of their attacks. Data is typically collected exclusively from adult females, despite evidence that suggests that men, boys and girls are victimized at nontrivial rates. However, underreporting is not the only problem; individuals in conflict areas may over-report rape if they insist rape victims in certain areas receive special attention such as medical assistance or humanitarian relief. There is also a possibility of reporting bias for sexual violence - victims may be more likely to report public, violent rapes or those where victims are clearly innocent and thus less likely to be shunned. 
The Democratic Republic of the Congo has been called the "rape capital of the world". Media and advocacy coverage often state that "tens of thousands" of females have been raped during the conflict spanning more than a decade from the mid-1990s. 
More than 15 000 rapes were reported each year to the United Nations mission in the DRC in both 2008 and 2009, and this number has commonly been used to infer the magnitude of sexual violence in the country. The major limitation of this figure is that it is based only on cases reported to the United Nations mission. In contrast, a recent study using population estimates and data from the nationally representative Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) conducted from 2006 to 2007 showed that the rate of rape among females aged from 15 to 49 years in a 12-month period was 26 times higher than the estimates based on reports to United Nations authorities. Although these recently published estimates are still most likely to be lower than reality due to age and sex limitations of respondents, the contrast to the number of cases reported to authorities shows the order of magnitude of differences which plague commonly cited estimates. 
This brief example has shown that there is a lack of accountability and rigor surrounding citation of estimates of sexual violence during conflicts. 
II. 
Nowadays, regional human rights conventions lack an effective enforcement mechanism for violent crimes. The insufficient testimony and underestimation contribute to an unsound accountability mechanism, which is totally significant for trial. Women Protection Advisors and Gender Advisors are advocated. 
On the other hand, judicial protection in the global and regional level is purposeless and unproductive, which blocked the progress of eliminating sexual violence to some extent. 
Conclusion: 
The impact of sexual violence on women were fatal and brutal in common sense. They are exposed to great possibility to infect barrenness, incontinence and other sexual diseases. HIV can easily break through their immune system. Besides, forceful and long-period sexual violence can destroy women's sexual organs and women are always beaten by soldiers. Second, in psychological aspect, they will suffer the disgrace and feel terribly ashamed. Many women who cannot bear the pressure commit suicide. The trauma formed because the violence had happened. But here are we talking about the prevention and protection, which means to take actions before the violence' occurrence. So a more accurate estimation is a better analysis to why and how sexual violence against women in conflict areas could take place. Then it comes to taking which kind of prevention is also major progress of eliminating the violence. 
. 
` 
