Is Cyberbullying as bad as Face-to-Face bullying? 
For many years, face-to-face bullying had been a big issue around the world. However, as the technology developed, a new form of bullying appeared in the society which is called Cyberbullying. Cyberbullying is a kind of bullying that people send harsh words or threaten other person through electronic devices such as phones or emails (What is Cyberbullying). In recent years, cyberbullying became a big issue because of the increase rate of the bullying between students and adults. However, compare to face-to-face bullying, there aren't any strong movements or any kind of ways to prevent cyberbullying. Is it because face-to-face bullying gives physical damage? Is it because cyberbullying doesn't give much damage to the victim? People must understand that even though cyberbullying doesn't give any physical damage, a victim can suffer from the mental damage which can lead to a serious problem like suicide. 
Many people believe that teenagers have a better chance of getting traditional bullies than cyberbullying. Cyberbullying only occurs through messages, E-mails, and social networks such as Instagram and Facebook. Compare to cyberbullying, traditional bullying can occur almost everywhere. For example, bullying can be found in school back yards, playgrounds, and even in local malls. However, even though there is a limitation in the ways of bullying in cyberbullying than traditional bullying, cyberbullying can occur for 24 hours and seven days a week. Someone could continue harassing another person even when the person is away from them. In traditional bullying, the victims can get away from the bullies when the school finishes or when they are at home. 
Traditional bullying occurs everywhere. Therefore, many parents believe that traditional bullying is hard to prevent than cyberbullying. Because cyberbullying occurs through internet and social media, parents think that if they control what their child see or use on the internet, they can prevent their child from cyberbullying. They can do this by monitoring their child's e-mails or social media. However, cyberbullying is more complicated than it seems like. Recently, the use of social media and internet is very common among the teenagers. The information can be sent to over 50 people by creating a one chat room and pressing a send button which able many people find out what is going on in school and out of school. Teenagers can quickly spread rumors through social media, taping an embarrassing incident and post them on You Tube, and upload embarrassing pictures of the victim on social networking sites (Lohmann). One of the cyberbullying examples is Amanda Todd who is a British Columbia, 12 years old teenager. On September 7, 2012, she posted a video talking about what she had experienced since she started using a video chat when she was in seventh grade. The video, "My story: Struggling, bullying, suicide, self-harm", spread out fast among the people and was viewed more than 17 million times. On her video, she tells about her experiences of cyberbullying by using flash cards. She started using the video chat to meet new people. One day, unknown person convinced her to bare her breast on camera. When the stranger got the photos, he used them to blackmail Amanda and spread the pictures through Facebook. Her friends found out and started harassing her through text messages and sent the photos of her breast through email. She decided to move to the other school. However, when she got there, the Internet Stalker found her after few days and added her as a Facebook friend in somehow. Then, he posted her pictures that he got from her. The new friends of Amada found out and started bullying her by sending threatening messages like her last school. Carol Todd who is Amanda's mother told the reporter, "Every time she moved schools he would go undercover and become a Facebook friend." About one month later after posting the video, on October 2012, Amanda hanged herself in her home (The Top Six Unforgettable Cyber Bullying Cases Ever). This example shows that when photos of a person or a gossip starts spreading out, there is no way to stop it. The electronic devices can save the pictures and use them again whenever he or she wants to use them. Preventing teenagers from the social network will not stop the spreading of the rumors. 
The aftereffect of the cyberbullying and traditional bullying both brings major depression. Therefore, a lot of people think that traditional bullying is worse because it also gives physical damage to the victim. In cyberbullying, the bullies only use words and pictures to bully the victim. Even though it doesn't give physical damage like traditional bullying, the effect in emotional and mental damage is much stronger. A research from Bauman, Toomey, and Walker, suicide is a third leading cause of death among young people in the U.S. 13.8% of high school students reported that they considered suicide seriously and 6.3% reported that they have attempted to suicide before. The major cause of the suicide is from the bullying with harmful and aggressive behavior that is repeated. To see the difference rate of depression which leads to suicide in cyberbullying and traditional bullying, Bauman, Toomey, and Walker conducted a research based on 1491 high school students. The depression meditated traditional bullying with 21.63% and for cyberbullying it was much higher with a rate of 74.43% (Bauman, Toomey, and Walker). Another research from Kowalski, Robin and Susan P. Limber shows that a comparison of anxiety rate between cyberbullying and traditional bullying. Traditional bullying has a rate of 32.59% and in cyberbullying, it is 33. 47 which is slightly higher than traditional bullying. The depression rate is also higher in cyberbullying too. Cyberbullying has a rate of 31. 60 and traditional bullying has a rate of 29.97. Lastly, cyberbullying has a suicidal rate of 1. 64 and traditional bullying has a rate of 1.24. Cyberbullying can be seen that it doesn't give immediate effect because it doesn't give physical damage. However, cyber bullying can give immediate effect which can be long term and even life altering. One person can change another person's entire life by sending one text message, Instagram, or Tweeter. 
Traditional bullying have been a big issue among schools before the development of technology. Because of the increasing rate of the use of technology, the rate of the cyberbullying is increasing too. However, not many people take this serious because it doesn't give physical damage. As you can see throughout the context, cyberbullying doesn't have physical damage but it can give a serious mental damage which can lead to suicide. Traditional bullying can be taken care by talking to the bullies but in cyberbullying, the spread of the rumor is hard to stop and the psychological damage can be a life threatening to the victim. Cyberbullying isn't other person's story anymore. It can be your friend, your daughter, or your siblings. 
