Argumentative Paper: How Can International Students at Purdue University Enhance Their Relationship with Domestic Students? 
Introduction 
Purdue University is a public institution located in West Lafayette Indiana. Even though it is an American university, it has one of the highest rankings regarding admission of international students coming from more than 150 countries. However, when I arrived to Purdue University in the United States, I realized that not everybody got along with each other, and that normally, students hang out with people from their own races and ethnicities. I observed that there were groups of students that had American friends and adapted better to the environment, but usually the international scholars didn't relate much with domestic students. As and international student myself, I found this to be a problem. My main research question is: How can international Students at Purdue University enhance their relationship with domestic students? After primary and secondary research I reached a conclusion. In order to improve relationships between international and domestic students in Purdue University, both parties have to know each other better. For that I'm proposing a mandatory freshman program called "One World" intended, not only for international students but also for domestic students. The purpose of this program is to teach others about different traditions all around the world so the cultural barrier would break and bonds between international and domestic students develop. 
Method 
In order, to prove if my solution is valid, I conducted primary and secondary research. One of the best methods to conduct a well-preformed research is to conduct an interview with an expert. This way you can ensure that the information obtained is well balance and trust worthy. My interview was with the graduate student, <name> . Last semester she was conducting several studies regarding international student adaptation at Purdue University. My interview addressed the following issues: Freshman international students success regarding academics, International students general satisfaction at Purdue, comments that international students may have regarding their experience freshman year and international students blending with American students. The purpose of secondary research was to explore other author's solutions, regarding international students getting along with domestic students. And by exploring, evaluating, and understanding their solutions, I could evaluate my own personal solution to this problem. After enough research was done I reached the conclusion that the main barrier between international and domestic students are lack of time for adaptation of international students, prejudice from both sides, and new culture adaptation from part of the international students. "One World" program is necessary in Purdue University because it addresses all of this issues and would help to fix them. 
One of the main issues of why international students and American students have trouble relating to each other come from prejudice from both parties. For people to coexist with others, they must know about parties' culture, and as a result relate more positively. Prejudge issues can also come from the fact that everybody has different backgrounds, and due to the lack of education regarding other people's cultures we can sometimes feel scared by the conventions other people hold. In fact, the international students, which relate better to American students, are the ones that imitated their traditions. For example, a study conducted in several colleges around America, proved that domestic students get along better with international students that share the same physical or cultural traits. This fact suggested that American students are most likely to establish relationships with people that are more westernized. (Yochman, 2015) Further more, international students adaptation does not only come from just adjustment issues, but some of the harder challenges come from inadequacies within American society (Lee and Rice, 2007,p.3) Crawford (2002), argues that "Many Americans do not have the patience to listen to someone whose accent is different from their own, or they are fearful of other cultures or nationalities due to stereotypes they have of different groups (as cited in Lacina, 2002,p.22) One world program is going to break those prejudge issues, by teaching not only international students about American culture, but vice verse. 
	Another one of the problems is that international students do not have enough time to adapt into a new culture, before they are exposed to this totally new environment. For example Jerry Gebhard (2011) states that "cultural adaptation is a dynamic process"(p.2) He also addresses that international students adapt to the university by a formal process however, this process does not necessary goes in chronological order. (p.2) What he means by a dynamic process that does not go in a chronological order, Gebhard states that the adaptation of international students, comes from a series of steps and not just a single event or circumstance. This is why for my solution, I'm proposing a mandatory class, for international and domestic students, and this could be part of the series of events that help international students adapt. On the other hand, not every international student adapts to the university the same way. According to Yochman (2015), the process of adaptation for every individual is different, and it depends on the personality of the person, rather that the events or circumstances this person is exposed to. However, by having this class you give the enough time for each individual to adapt to the environment throughout the semester and not just the first week of class. 
Furthermore, it is important to acknowledge that it is difficult for international students to adapt to a new environment even though a lot of the background and traditions could be the same. As an international student myself, I can testify that adapting to a new culture, learning new language expressions, or even American students behavior is totally different to what I was used to. For example, Jan Guidry Lacina (2002) states that according to her study, American students tend to establish different and more distant relationships with the people that surround them. Bulthuis (1986) states that, "Because America is a highly individual-oriented society, friendship is sometimes viewed as less permanent than in other cultures." (as cited in Lacina, 2002,p.22) For example, as a Latino myself, I love to hug people and get really close to people, however, American culture could interpret that as an invasion of their personal space and could be very annoying for them. In fact, as a solution, Lacina (2002) also proposed a kind of experience for international students that teach them about American slang. She proposes Dave's ESL Caf , a web page that could teach international students slang and expressions that American students use, in order to enhance bonds and relationships between them. (p.3) In a way, my solution is similar to this one, because the "One World" program is indented to learn everything we can about others culture. 
Conclusion 
	To conclude, the inclusion of this new program is necessary to improve the relationship between domestic and international students. Not only because cultural prejudges will break, but because it would be interesting to know about your future colleges in your professional skills. Having friends from all around the world helps you create connection networks. Imagine having a place to stay in several places all around the world. Coming to college is not only about just studying, is about expanding your horizons. Is to know the world. 
