Argumentative Paper 
The efficiency in the Chinese railway system is criticized by many passengers. They believed that the average speed of passenger trains was lower than they could do, and when the equipment malfunctioned, it took too long to solve the problems. The Chinese railway company (former Chinese railway buerau) argued that it is safer to run slower, and the current situation is good. Because of the "723" accident that occurred in Wenzhou, the Chinese railway bureau decided to slow down all high-speed bullet trains. In the recent years the average speed of other trains operating is also slower than it was years ago. Based on my previous researches, the efficiency of the Chinese railway system can be improved by modifying these two ways: 1) the procedure of troubleshooting; 2) the schedule of trains. However, all these improvements are based on an assumption: all workers are working efficient enough. 
The procedures workers should follow when equipment malfunctioned were concerning too much on safety and costing efficiency. As a result, workers were not always following the procedures, and they had to wait for instructions before solving the problems. 
Support examples: "428" Jiaoji railway accident, "723" railway accident; D3118 on May 8th, 2014, K1246 on October 7th, 2013 
Selected procedures from technical regulations and their problems. 
Potential problems and possible solutions 
The current schedule of trains was not fully using potential capacity. Sometimes trains have to stop at a station for hours for nothing. As a result, passengers have to spend more time than they could. 
Support example: K1246 on October 8th, 2013, 1470 on March 1st, 2014. 
Other schedule problems according to timetable of Shanghai railway bureau, including comparison of train speed between Beijing-Shanghai. 
Top speed of high-speed trains 
Potential problem when using a tight schedule and its possible solution. 
If these two parts mentioned can be improved, the efficiency of the whole Chinese railway system can be improved, and more passengers can be transported. 
