Argumentative Essay Assignment First Draft 
March 30, 2016 
Dawn of Conquering Lactose Intolerance 
For American diet, about three-fourths of total calcium intake is originated from dairy foods. (Berdanier, C. D., Dwyer, J., & Feldman, E. B. 2008) Nevertheless, 65 percent of world population is lactose intolerant, according to United States National Library of Medicine. Lactose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptoms - such as bloating, diarrhea, and gas - after consuming dairy product. (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, June 2014) Because people are having discomfort after consuming dairy product, they tend to avoid consuming that again and this behavior will cause nutrient deficiency, especially calcium deficiency. For example, according to U.S Department of Health and human Service (2006), most teenagers, who are lactose intolerant, don't consume as much calcium as that is suggested. However, in my opinion, people with lactose intolerance should not be afraid of consuming lactose, because people can drink a small amount of milk (8-12 ounces) each day and later they become more tolerant to lactose so discomforts disappear. This strategy is supported by the online articles and the expert so this strategy is credible. 
The first time I viewed this method is on the Internet, while I was searching information about lactose intolerance. It's unimaginable that I had found thousands of articles that explain or support this method, so I chose three of them to observe. Peer-reviewed journal article, Vesa, Marteau, and Korpela (1999), newspaper article, Amidor (2013) and government document, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (2006) both agree that if people with lactose intolerance drink too much of milk, they will become discomfort so these people should consume small amount of milk to avoid symptom of discomfort. I consider that these resources are valuable, as they have intimate relations with each other. 
The intimate relation includes one article contributes to explain the fault in another article. For example, Amidor (2013) offer an explanation for why the paradox in Vesa, Marteau and Korpela (1999) exists by pointing out that consuming dairy product with other food can alleviate the discomfort symptom from lactose intolerance, which makes sense in our daily life too. I am lactose intolerant so I will become discomfortable after drinking a cup of milk alone, but if I mix coffee and milk together, making a latte, and then drink the mixture, I can avoid the symptom of lactose intolerance. 
Another correlation includes one article agrees with the statement in another article indirectly. For instance, both Amidor (2013) and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (2006) illustrate that consuming 12 grams lactose would not cause the symptom of discomfort from lactose intolerance so in fact, they agree and support each other statement, which increases the credibility of the strategy that consuming small amount of milk would not cause lactose intolerance. 
In order to further confirm the strategy found on the Internet, I planned to interview an expert, to find out his opinion about this strategy. The expert I later interviewed is Prof Savaiano. He has studied lactose digestion for about 30 years and he is the Director of the North Central Nutrition Education Center of Excellence, a USDA NIFA-funded center. Also, he is a professor in Nutrition Science Department of Purdue University. In the interview, Prof Savaiano strongly agreed the strategy that mentioned on the Internet, but he also warned that this strategy is not a catholicon: if people stop consuming lactose, the improved ability of digesting lactose would eventually go down to the original value. Meanwhile, the improvement extent is limited. One with lactose intolerance will never have the same lactose digestion ability as the one without lactose intolerance. Even the ability is improved, he should still be cautious about consuming dairy foods, avoiding taking them alone. But in general, Prof Savaiano supports this strategy and strongly recommends people with lactose intolerance to use it in life. 
I can safely reach a conclusion that the strategy of consuming a few dairy foods everyday to become tolerant with lactose for people with lactose intolerance is effective, as the three selected online articles and the expert both support it, even it has some faults. For now, there are still plenty of children facing calcium deficiency as they refuse to drink milk because of lactose intolerance. To conquer their fear about lactose intolerance and lactose intolerance itself, knowledge about lactose intolerance and the strategy for overcoming lactose intolerance must be dispersed. It is extremely easy to do so because the dissemination of information is unbelievable swift nowadays. Government can post the knowledge about lactose intolerance right on their Facebook and Twitter. Also, casting public service advertisement on Television is a good choice. Private company, like milk-producing company, can do a lot of things as well, such as holding a special activity for milk each year to attract more people become interested in the topic of milk and lactose. Although lactose intolerance is being a trouble, I believe in the future, it will finally be solved. The dawn of conquering lactose intolerance is coming! 
