Cultural differences-the biggest obstacle between international students and native students 
As I emphasize before, communicating with the native students is really important if the international students want to adjust to the new environment which is totally different from their home. However, communicating with the native seems always hard for our international friends. So what is the biggest obstacle between these two groups? After some research, I find out that the cultural differences is mostly likely to be the answer. 
According to my previous synthesis paper, Jenny and Charles, the professors of the center for study of higher education in University of Arizona, show that the discrimination is one of the obstacles for the international students to adapt to the new environment in their study. They suggest that international students might feel uncomfortable in the communication with the native because of discrimination which is from cultural differences. I agree with this point of view. In my thought, people were born equally to this world. The so-called discriminations or the stereotypes are just the products from people's misunderstanding or ignorance to different cultures. For example, in china people like to share foods on the table, but in America people prefer to enjoy foods on their own dishes. This simple culture difference might result in discriminations that the Americans are selfish and the Chinese are not healthy and decent. If we try to understand each other's culture a little bit more, then we will find those discriminations are so unreasonable. 
So when we put ourselves into a new environment, what should we do to adjust to it? We need to know how things work, and how people act here. We need to meet native people, make communication, and build friendship. All these thing seem easy in words while they are not in real life-when they are talking about how fun a party is while you have no idea how a party here looks like, when they are cheering for a football game while you don't even know the rules of the football game, or when they are discussing the food they like best while you never heard those names. Such embarrassing scenes are all because of the culture differences. There is no way to fit in the new society if we don't understand the different culture. A culture is a symbol of one region, it determines how people act, what people like, what people talk about, how people judge, and how people treat others. So when different cultures meet, there will be conflicts and misunderstandings. If the international student cannot deal with those challenges correctly, they will not be able to adapt to the life here. 
Some people might say that the lack of the communication with the native students is resulted from the academic pressure or the language difference. I'd rather say that those words are just lame excuses. In fact, most of the international students adapt to the academic study pretty well according to my research. Since all the international students have studied for and taken the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT), they already find their own way to study here. So basically the international students and the native ones are under the same level of academic pressure which is not a big deal for a college student. Also the language difference is not the main reason either. I do admit that speaking in a different language is really tough and the international students suffer a lot from the language problem. However, language skill can be easily improved from the communications with native people. And the main reason we cannot have interesting conversation with the native people is not our weak skills in English but our lack of the topics, which is actually the lack of the acquaintance of the American culture. 
In conclusion, after eliminate those factors on the surface, we can finally realize that the cultural difference is the origin of isolation, misunderstanding, conflicts, and discrimination. For international students who want to get used to the new strange surrounding and make connection with the local people, it is definitely necessary to learn and understand the new culture. 
