Draft #1 
April 13, 2016 
Argumentative Essay 
	The common saying, "the grass is always greener on the other side," fits the mentality and thoughts of frequent users of skin-whitening creams. In the past, light skin was stigmatized in a positive manner. In Asia, women who had white skin were idealized and white skin symbolized wealth, career position, and desirability. Consequently, people began to use skin-whitening products when people started believing that people with light skin were of higher social status and were more attractive. People believed that if they had lighter skin, their lives would be better. In reality, the grass is not always greener on the other side. Though skin-whitening products may be effective at lightening a person's skin color, these products come with negative side effects. Skin-whitening creams are capable of doing more harm than good. These products can negatively affect a person physically, mentally, and financially. 
	No matter how great advertisements for skin-whitening creams look, these products are too good to be true. Most skin-whitening products contain toxic ingredients that poses harmful effects to the human body. Al-Saleh's (2005) study on effects of skin-whitening creams on mice showed that even products with low concentrations of mercury, a known poisonous chemical element, could cause significant morphological and pathological changes to the body. Al-Saleh et al. claimed that continuous exposure to mercury in long periods of time can permanently destroy the brain, kidneys, and livers. Blood congestion, formation of vacuoles in the proximal tubule, abnormal accumulation of lymph cells, loss of connections to glomerulus, and reduction in Bowman's capsule space or urinary space can be seen in mercury-filled kidney. There were also blood congestion, abnormal accumulation of lymph cells, increment in the size of hepatic portal vein (vein that enters the liver), loss of hepatic cells (cells that store fat), formation of vacuoles in the skin, and more Kupffer cells (breaks down red blood cells) in the affected liver. Not to mention, weakening of the cerebral cortex and the granular layer of the brain and formation of vacuoles could also be seen in the affected brain. In a The New York Times article, Louis (2010) interviewed Allison Ross, a woman who was obsessed with skin-whitening creams. Allison Ross had been using skin-whitening creams for at least twice a day. She told her doctor that she used skin-whitening creams to feel more accepted in the society. Though she was satisfied that her skin became whiter and paler, she started having health issues. Her skin was so thin that it could be easily bruised with a light touch. Stubborn acne and capillaries were also visible on her skin. Moreover, Louis' interview with Dr. Eliot F. Battle Jr. claimed that skin-whitening creams that contain corticosteroids and mercury can damage the body's nervous system. Chronic use of whitening creams can also lead to stretch marks, hypertension, increment in blood sugar levels, diabetes, and decrement in the body's natural steroids levels. Conclusively, 
health issues 
	Besides adverse physical effects, skin-whitening creams can also damage people's mental health. With skin-whitening creams come advertisements. These advertisements typically celebrate light skin while degrading dark skin and often connect light-skinned people with happiness, success, and romance. According to Eagle et al. (2014), in India, Fair & Lovely, a brand of skin-whitening cream, advertises that users of the cream would have a brighter future ahead of them. Fair & Lovely's advertisements show people, with light skin, getting better jobs and being able to find their soul mates. In Thailand, an advertisement for skin-whitening pills was widely criticized (Chan, 2016). Its message of "you will win just by being white" furthers discriminates people with dark skin while putting people with white skin on a pedestal. These advertisements lower dark-skinned people's self-esteem or cause self-hate by subliminally telling them that light skin is better than dark skin. Hoskins (2014) stated that skin-whitening advertisements make people feel like they are not beautiful enough. She argued that "skin color bias affects people psychologically. It affects how a child performs in school because their confidence level goes down: they feel they are not good enough." Adding to Hoskins' argument, Banerji (2016) also expressed that "young boys and girls with darker complexions grow up with lower self-confidence, which often impacts their personal and professional success." With these details in mind, skin-whitening products indirectly affect consumers in a negative way through controversial and degrading advertisements. 
	Since skin-whitening creams can cause physical and mental health issues, these creams can also indirectly cause financial problems to frequent users. Prolonged use of skin-whitening creams often leads to various health problems, ranging from mild to fatal diseases. As mentioned previously, skin-whitening creams can damage the brain, kidneys, and livers. According to Healthcare Bluebook, liver biopsy costs at least 879 US dollars while a liver transplant costs around 52,693 US dollars ("Liver Biopsy", n.d.; "Transplant of Liver", n.d.). A kidney transplant costs at least 61,413 US dollars ("Transplant of Kidney", n.d.). Additionally, treatments for diabetes cost around 6,653 US dollars ("Diabetes", n.d.). Users of skin-whitening creams may also experience self-hate, which may lead to self-harm. High levels of self-hate can only be treated by going to psychotherapy sessions, which cost at least 153 US dollars for 30 minutes per visit ("Individual Psychotherapy (30 Minutes)", n.d.). Even though skin-whitening products are not expensive, the cost of fixing physical and mental health problems - that arise from these products - is hefty. 
	People may argue that skin-whitening creams that contain hydroquinone can beneficial as they can diminish acne scars and dark spots. Though this is a valid statement as hydroquinone is effective at fading blemishes, hydroquinone is still dangerous. Multiple studies suggest that hydroquinone is carcinogenic. In other words, hydroquinone is considered as a substance that is capable of causing cancer. According to Harris (2016), the Local Government Association (LGA) in the United Kingdom reported that "hydroquinone can remove the top layer of skin and the body's natural defense against infection and the sun." This increases the chances of getting skin cancer. Councilor Simon Blackburn, the Chair of LGA's Safer and Strong Communities Board, also addressed that "consumers should always check the ingredients of their skin creams and never use a product containing hydroquinone" as hydroquinone had been illegal in Europe since 2001. Evidence of possible dangers of hydroquinone suggests that hydroquinone can do more harm than good. 
	All in all, no matter how effective skin-whitening creams are, they pose harmful effects on all three aspects: physically, mentally, and financially. Skin-whitening creams contain toxic ingredients that can permanently damage the brain, liver, and kidneys, causing health complications. Advertisements of these products also make people with dark skin feel ashamed of their own skin color as these advertisements typically celebrate light skin and degrade dark skin. Physical and mental problems also lead to financial problems as frequent users of skin-whitening creams will need to spend lots of money to treat and cure their health issues. Despite all the positive stigma surrounding light skin, skin-whitening creams should best be avoided as they generally do more harm than good. 
