Improving Teaching Quality For Better Grades 
Course: ENGL10600i 
Date: 4/30/2015 
It is suggested by specialists in the field of education that the modern educational institutions have the great number of problems. Students are considered to have the low level of knowledge and self-discipline. Due to the discovered problems, it was claimed that the educational system, in general, and the organization of educational process need to be changed. The most part of those changes should be based on the analysis of students behavior and their successes. 
One of the burning problems of the modern educational system concerns about the schedule. Nowadays in the number of countries students are allowed to choose the big part of their subjects by themselves. According to Ann Neal: "American Council of Trustees and Alumni's ACTA" What Will They Learn? " project studies the curricula of more than 1,000 colleges and universities. The 2012-2013 study found that fewer than 19% of schools require a foundational course in US history or government. Fewer than 14 percent require intermediate-level foreign language, and more than a third do not even require college-level mathematics. Of the seven subjects studied by "What Will They Learn?" the average school required about three "Neal, 2015. It has been observed that instead of more informative or practical classes students choose courses, which do not involve the great number of assignments. Also students are likely to subscribe for some classes just because they want to have more entertainment during studies. For example, many young people choose such subjects, as the History of Classical American Cinema or Dancing. One of possible solutions for such a problem is implementation of additional classes in campuses. Such classes can be taught by volunteers and presented to students in the form of media presentations or interesting group assignments. 
Another issue in the educational system, which should be changed is the concept of the university itself. Even today in the environment of democracy, the most of higher educational establishments are likely to position themselves as the traditional universities with the long list of duties and obligations. It would be better, if universities and high schools created more friendly atmosphere in their campuses and schools. According to the number of researches, students perform more successfully and stay far more motivated, if they know that their needs are perceived with the necessary attention and understanding. According to Bru aj Skender: "To be successful in this competitive environment universities are changing the traditional way of dealing with students to more students' centred strategy with main focus on student satisfaction. Today's students are luckier to select the most appropriate university for their academic! And professional development, they have the tendency to search for universities that have positive brand name and provide a high quality of teaching, finest student campus services along with an appropriate economic cost " Skender, 2015. Students consider themselves as adult people, who are conscious about their ambitions and plans for career. Such a statement presupposes that young people, who study at universities are confident about subjects, which they want to learn. Also students are aware of the form of classes, which they want to attend. If young people are not satisfied with conditions provided by the university, they are likely to find additional courses in order to get knowledge and information they want or, as the variant, to give up studying. Many students suggest that they did not graduate, because they did not have the chance to acquire practical skills and knowledge, which could be important for their work. If universities implement strategies of business enterprises, they can become aimed to attract and to preserve the high number of students. In such a way heads of universities and professors will be far more interested in needs and wishes of students. 
Still not only personal requirements of students should be taken into account, but also requirements of the external world, which involve working conditions and skills necessary for the self-development. According to Ravi Kumar: "In the present context, education policies and strategies have to reckon with emerging challenges and opportunities that come from increasing globalization. The task of nation building has to take into account increasing demand for certain professional skills and knowledge that is linked to the labour market. A globalized world will ultimately require the outsourcing of human skills in regions which will witness a "demographic deficit" Ravi, 2013. It is the issue of the common knowledge that the modern world is continuously changing: new companies and new industries are appearing. The level of competition is increasing. Conditions of economical, political and social life are also changing all the time. Yong people, who have high professional aims, should be ready to perform all the duties and activities they are expected to perform. Still after the traditional model of education the most part of students graduate having acquired information, which is taken from books published centuries ago and have no precise knowledge about events and conditions in the modern world. Due to such facts, universities should make a shift in the strategy of informative education. For instance, higher educational establishments, should employ younger professors and update their materials and sources. 
