The Benefits of Being Volunteers 
After I joined and be one of the volunteers, I became more and more curiously about the things that volunteering can bring . For me, being volunteers means a way of giving and gaining. However nowadays there are some arguments say that people do the volunteering programs only for better resume and doing volunteering spend too much time and energy. Therefore, in this article, I want to show, although it is true that people can build better resume if they are the volunteers, the most significant thing is that, there are abounds of abilities that people can learn from the volunteering program. These abilities include self-awareness, some skills and the interaction with others. 
Volunteers can develop and improve themselves. They can be self-awareness, ethics and self-regulation through the volunteering program (Rothwell and Brandon 2013). Through the programs, volunteers meet more people and make sure who are they and what they want in the future. This is because they have to change so many role while being volunteers. For example, from (Edward 1993), hospitals need volunteers to take care of the patients. They have to not only bring the happiness to the patient and family, but also be carefully when doing the medical project. This is a challenge for volunteers to do the revising of roles. Volunteer learn more about controlling their emotions and feelings (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). I think this is because volunteers start to think the problem on the other people's side. They are becoming more and more understand others in another way, otherwise selfish and self-centeredness. In the same time, they develop altruistic feelings through the experience (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). Through talking and working with other people, volunteers broaden their eyes and know more stories about others. For example, they can resist themselves not smoking though helping the people who are addictive in smoking. In this way, volunteers are more likely to think about others and improve themselves to be the people they want to be. 
Not only improve in the mental part, people can also advance their skills. From interviewing Kathyln, I found that volunteers can also learn some skills that can be used in the lifetime. For example, volunteers may know some knowledge about planting trees, cooking and leadership. From my own experience, I learned how to firing the corns. This is a new experience that I have never imagined before. The volunteers improved their communication skills and attitudinal skills (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). These skills can help people in the future. This showed that volunteering program can bring people the improvement of the ability. They can gain development that may help themselves. From the study of Crowell (2012), based on the data done anonymously by the research online, researchers make sure that leaders in the volunteering programs can further their leadership. They are more likely develop skills include technical, human, and conceptual skills. In this way, we can find that volunteers can learn different kinds of skills which they can gain advance. 
Another advantage of being volunteers is that people get more interaction with different people who they may not have chance to meet before. From the interview that I did, Kathlyn told me that one of the most interesting part of Boiler Out is that you will meet various students from nearly 200 countries around the world to work together , and also know more about local America community. Volunteers enjoyed meeting other volunteers sharing their experiences and gaining greater knowledge (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). Volunteers are building their network and making connections with others so that they can get more ideas and thoughts during the volunteering. There is an example from CIPD Focus shows that girls called Watson and Strachan develop their branch level with members from the different backgrounds and occupations, such with the students from the other school and professors from HR department. These really support my point that volunteering program can advance the zone of people. 
From the resources I found above, it reveals that volunteering programs can bring people the direction of future, skills and the relationships with others. Building a better resume for college student is only a small part of benefits, and the most significant is the ability training. You will never know what may get unless you join the volunteering programs. Therefore, the students at present should understand more about the things they may gain through the program more than only the material objects. In the future, the schools and other organizations should encourage more people to be volunteers. For example, they can do some publicities and invite some volunteers in the program to give some speeches. These volunteers can talk about what they learned using their own experience and stories which can make people more empathy and feel the benefits directly. In this way, people are more likely to join these kinds of activities to help others and to promote their own. These are helpful for those who need help and those who need to change. After people know plenty of advantages, why not participating the programs and be one of the volunteers! 
