Engl 106 I 
We need more proper Sex education in China 
According to Yan 2002, Chinese people's attitudes toward premarital sex even the sex has a significant change. Yan 2002 points out that, premarital sex was rare during the 1950s and 1960s, because of the strong expectation of bridal virginity. Nevertheless, China has experienced dramatic social changes associated with rapid economic reform and growth. With the increasingly development of the entire society, Chinese people hold a more tolerant attitude toward premarital sex. On one side, we are glad to see more people talking about the sex issue and no long have rigorous limitation on sex issues. On the other side, the sex education problems are pushed under the spot light at the same time. 
Since Chinese people change their attitudes toward premarital sex nowadays Yan, 2002 . Nonetheless, The sex education in China doesn't catch the pace of attitude change. By means of the interview to my mother, I acknowledged that, most Chinese parents suppose their children to learn these sex issues themselves. Parents usually don't want to talk about the sex or the sex protection to their children. In comparison of American family's open on this topic, Chinese parents feel uncomfortable talking about sex to their children. Some of them even think children are capable of learning sex education by themselves. There's no need or no responsibilities for parents to teach children sex knowledge. 
http://qz.com/100273/one-of-chinas-biggest-growth-markets-condoms/ 
As shown in the diagram, majority of Chinese students learn sex from the Internet. Nonetheless, as we all know, the Internet would lead a wrong guide for the teenagers once they don't use the Internet properly. Most resources about premarital sex on the Internet are quite violent and pornographic. Plenty of these kind of information are posted casually on the Internet, which is harmful to adolescents' sex education. 
Zhang, Li, & Shah 2007 argued that, improper education on premarital sex may lead to extreme behaviors among adolescents. The most two extreme examples are abortion and sexual harass. According to a 2010 study carried out by Peking University and the United Nations Population Fund, of the 22. 4 percent of unmarried youths in China who are sexually active, half have had unprotected sex. The same study also shows that only 49% of Chinese use condoms the first time they have sex. To avoid early parenthood, young http://www.theworldofchinese.com/2013/08/more-sex-education-in-china-please/ 
-pregnant girls often have no other choice than to get an abortion without telling parents. Zhu, 2013, para.4. However, it's exactly their parents' ignorance on sex education leads to a lack of sex knowledge. And because of this, these young girls had sex without protection, which do tremendous harm to their health. On the other side, since young boys are at their puberty. It's normal for them to have sexual impulse. The sex impulse drove adolescents to be increasingly curious about premarital sex. As statistics conducted from Zhu, the rape rate of adolescents has rised 20% in 5 years. Generally, those adolescents who created the crime are all lack of proper sex education. 
http://qz.com/100273/one-of-chinas-biggest-growth-markets-condoms/ 
With information provided above, we can obviously find out that teenagers without proper sex education will have unprotected sex and hurt themselves. Moreover, from the chart beside, we can conclude that most of people think sex education in school is necessary. Hence, social agency like family and school should attach significant attention to sex education likewise, parents and teachers' responsibilities on sex education are extremely momentous. Yet, Zhu 2013 opposes the current sex education curriculum. Presently, sex education for both schools and parents may as well be virginity education. The topic of actually having sex is put off for as long as possible. Zhu, 2013, para.6. Without doubt, this is the imperfection of Chinese sex education. 
In my own perspective, Chinese sex education can be improved in three methods. Firstly, schools should have more physiology classes. Enough proper sex knowledge and education should be taught in the class. There should be exams on this class to assure students have mastered the knowledge. Secondly, parents should take the sex education classes at the same time to fulfill the sex education knowledge. When the family is having spare time together, parents can teach children some sex protection methods with their own personal examples. Finally, Ministry of Education should introduce some sex education textbooks from Japan and America. Since Zhang, Li, & Shah 2007 added that, Sex education in China has been promoted for many years, but limited data are available regarding the sources from which adolescents receive sex-related knowledge. Zhang, Li, Shah. 2007.para 5. Therefore, some advanced sex education textbooks are essential as well. 
Put all in the nutshell, we need more proper sex education in China. Chinese's sex education should keep up with the attitude changes toward premarital sex. Considerable sex education can protect the adolescents from unprotected premarital sex. Parents and teachers should bear the responsibilities on sex education teaching at the same time. 
Reference 
Quartz. 2013, one of china's biggest growth markets: condoms, retrieved from http://qz.com/100273/one-of-chinas-biggest-growth-markets-condoms/ 
The world of Chinese. August 2013, more sex education in China please, retrieved from http://www.theworldofchinese.com/2013/08/more-sex-education-in-china-please/ 
Weijing Zhu. August 20 2013, more sex education in China please, retrieved from http://www.theworldofchinese.com/2013/08/more-sex-education-in-china-please/ 
Yan yuxiang. July 2002, Courtship, Love and Premarital Sex in a North China Village, pp. 1-53. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/3182440?origin=crossref&seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents 
