Argumentative Essay 
Social Media: Redefining Our Perception of Beauty 
Social media is changing so much more than just the way we communicate. Social networking websites have become such an enormous part of our daily lives; from helping businesses to get engaged with customers to providing latest news updates about events happening across the world, to reminders about your friends birthday and so much more. However, the flip side of social media is its influence on a person's day-to-day decisions. Social media plays a huge role in influencing perceptions of socially acceptable body images in the minds of the young people. Social media has contributed immensely to growing body dissatisfaction and eating disorders among the younger generation in India. 
In this digital age, the teenagers spend an astonishing amount of time using social media applications such as Facebook and Instagram which influences other aspects of their life, such as their eating habits. Research indicates that teenagers spend about six hours a day on average using social media Wallace, 2015. This large chunk of time consumed in media has adverse effects on their lifestyle decisions. It is important to note that this time spent is not just time dedicated to social media but also time spent on social media while multitasking. A shocking 80 percent of girls under the age of ten have dieted at least once in their lives. 53 percent of thirteen-year-old girls are dissatisfied with how their bodies look and this number rises to 78 percent among girls aged seventeen Roberts, 2012. Time spent on social media tools largely contributes to growing body dissatisfaction. Teenage girls and young women, in India, are exposed to a plethora of airbrushed images of women every day on different forms media. Images of women are altered and enhanced through photoshop to create something far from realistic. Social media has created a platform for images to be posted and shared thousands of times, thus expanding their reach to users. Moreover, it has enabled people to compare themselves to pictures of their favorite celebrities, friends, and neighbors on Facebook, Instagram, and many other websites. Additionally, there is peer pressure from social media to be muscular which is an issue of body dissatisfaction among men. Although this issue is not as significant as in the case of women, it is still widely prevalent today. 
This large amount of body dissatisfaction contributes to the increasing prevalence of eating disorders and rigorous, unhealthy exercising habits among young women. Eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa have adverse health implications such as decreased metabolism, hair loss, fatigue and increased risk of heart failure. Findings from research highlight that a shocking ninety percent of those having eating disorders are women of ages between 12 and 25. Twitter hashtags and challenges, body trends such as the "thigh gap" have come in to play a crucial role in body dissatisfaction. Teenage girls and young women are obsessed with these vain and unhealthy body trends tend to brush off its health implications as if their health were insignificant A. Giri, personal communication, March 25, 2016. It is crucial for adolescents to realize that body images portrayed in social media should not dictate their lifestyle and eating habits. They must learn to prioritize their health and be confident in the way they appear without feeling the need to change. 
The vast outreach of social media has sparked awareness about body dissatisfaction and related eating disorders. Over the past year, there have been social media campaigns to raise awareness about health implications of eating disorders in an effort to curb the pessimistic body image perception. These efforts also aim at creating body positivity and stresses the importance of embracing ourselves. However, these efforts are quite small in scale and fail to garner the required attention and reach the desired audience. Due to their small scale, these efforts remain largely unnoticed and lost in the vast ocean of content in social networking websites. Thus, streaks of body positivity have a short life span and dies out quite quickly in comparison to the negative vibes which still continue to prevail. 
Social media websites such as Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and Instagram have an extremely large user base connecting millions of people across the world. Its arena provides a platform where body image perceptions are formed and learned. In this digital world, the youth spend a large portion of their day on social media which makes them obsessed with their bodies and how it looks. This obsession may lead to changing eating and exercising habits and on an extreme level, eating disorders which have serious health implications. Thus, social media while connecting people across various boundaries is also stimulating negative body image concerns and related health disorders. 
