Argumentative Essay (#Final Draft) 
April 28, 2015 
1371 words 
Necessity of General Education courses for STEM majors at Purdue 
Introduction 
As the first person on the moon, Neil Armstrong famously said, "That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind." These are perhaps some of the greatest words ever spoken by a Purdue alumni. Purdue, famously known as the cradle of astronauts, is a university renowned for research and advancement in the field of Science and Technology. It has been a hub of learning, knowledge and innovation since it was founded in 1869 (Purdue University, 2015). 
A school that is STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) based, like Purdue, may appear to have a bright future with the need for technology growing rapidly each year (U.S. Department of Education); however, this paper sets out to investigate the importance and relevance of general education courses for STEM majors at Purdue today. General education course, popularly known as Gen Ed courses, are being investigated because, they require the study of subjects other than the STEM cores classes, and, as such, the Gen Ed courses add to the timeline for graduation of STEM students (College Express, 2015). Thus, I wanted to research how general education courses at Purdue can continue to play an indispensable part in STEM education, while they are constantly reviewed and updated to suit the needs of today's society. After my research, I believe that Purdue should continue with mandatory general education courses for all majors. This paper reports the findings of my research through three themes: 1) The ever evolving workplace, which focuses on the practical uses of General education courses 2) A genuine concern, which highlights an issue that bothers most STEM majors and 3) A well rounded approach, which focuses on the effects a general education course has on students on an individual level. 
The ever evolving workplace 
According to an interview-survey on communication responsibilities of working professionals conducted by students of North Carolina State University, 31 percent respondents reported spending an average of 31 percent of their work on writing related activities (Miller, 2004, pp. 42-43). Of these, collaboration, management review and peer review were common aspects of writing in the workplace. In general, the survey concluded that, problem solving, critical analysis, strategy, teamwork, creativity and persuasion were regarded as important dimensions of practical communication tasks in the workplace. This means effective communication remains an important skill for employees in today's industry. To equip students with necessary communication skills for life, Purdue's gen education requirement includes COM 114 and ENGL 106, which are courses specifically aimed at developing such communication skills. COM 114 deals with presentational speaking and ENG 106 focuses on academic writing. It may seem like there is no direct relevance or need of effective communication skills for a STEM major; however, there can be many instances where someone in the STEM industry may need to employ these very skills for benefits in their respective fields. For instance, people in the scientific community constantly need to write thesis papers and academic journals. This would require a minimal amount of writing knowledge. Another example is that of scientists who need funding for their research. To convince organizations and benefactors to fund their research, scientists might have to employ the art of making a 'persuasive presentation'. Now, if a scientist had a breakthrough in finding a cure for effectively preventing or curing cancer, they might need to make an 'informative presentation' to spread awareness amongst the local population. Thus, general education courses do have an important practical role to play in any STEM major's work place and thus Purdue must continue these courses as they will help better prepare the students for the real world. 
A genuine concern 
One of the most compelling arguments against having mandatory general education courses is that having them automatically subtracts away from the number of credits from technical courses. This would mean that students might find it harder to take an ample amount of major related courses. This can inadvertently end up delaying their graduation which would in turn cost them a lot more money. In today's world time and money are of paramount importance. However, I learned from an interview with my academic advisor, that Purdue's academic curriculum is designed so as to enable all STEM majors to graduate within 4 years. This is found by keeping a minimum requirement of six general education courses and a mandatory COM and ENGL course. She also mentioned that Purdue follows the University Core Curriculum which is designed with the State Core Curriculum which serves as a mandate for the courses to take at Purdue or any other University in Indiana for education. This was started in 2013, and thus constantly requires Purdue to review and upgrade their education plan to suit the needs of the students amongst other things. Thus Purdue, does keep in due consideration the relevance of general education courses and the amount of them a STEM major need ideally take so as to not let these courses burden them in their technical areas of study. 
A well rounded approach 
We do not live in a social vacuum. As professionals, the decisions we make inadvertently affect those around us. In fact, most of the services we provide are rendered to the people. Civil engineers help build bridges that people use. Chemists discover drugs of medicinal value for the people and physicists uncover the secrets of the universe we live in. This means our work culminates into serving or meeting the needs of our society. Thus, it is integral that we act as ethical professionals who uplift the common good of the people. Consider the case of a company that wants to open a power plant in a remote location, but a complication arises that upsets the local population. In such a situation, the socio-technical decision making process for an engineer, would be much more complex than just technical decision-making, thus rendering general education courses helpful as these are people-based or value-based problems, which require understanding of societies and knowledge of political and ethical correctness to deal with. 
General education courses are also a source of knowledge and skills that are important to personal development such as leadership, integrity, equality, compassion and sense of responsibility (Mc Cuen, 1987, pp. 12-13). In his book, Mc Cuen, asserts that General Education courses provide diversity in a student's education, thus putting them in touch with a variety of experiences. These experiences may lead students to develop capacities for imaginative sympathy towards others and their experiences, thus providing a base from which a student can initiate inspired action. For instance, studying history might enable us to understand the characteristics of influential leaders. Thus, although a GER may not directly enable a student to imbibe a quality in his or her personality, it can certainly provide a framework or platform to develop or inspire these qualities. If a COM class enables a student to become a good speaker, it might add to their confidence and sense of self-worth as they will believe they have the power to influence and make a difference. 
Conclusion 
Through the above themes, I have tried to analyze, the practical and personal benefits of General Education Courses have for boilermakers, and tried to address the concern that they prolong graduation. My research leads me to the conclusion that at the moment, it is in the best interest of students at Purdue, to take these courses, considering that the effectiveness and relevance are constantly being tested and better adapted to meet the modern day requirements. They are an integral part of education and in resonance with Purdue's mission to serve citizens of Indiana, the United States, and the world through discovery that expands the realm of knowledge, learning through dissemination and preservation of knowledge, and engagement through exchange of knowledge. (Purdue University, 2003) 
