P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15, 2015	 
	Effects of Video Games on Student's Academic Behavior 
	Video games have been played for over a decade now but gamers have not truly understand the effects of playing it over time. It has been more than a decade too that people had and are still misinterpreting that playing video games makes one lazier and behaving in such a way that people regard gamers as immature and unwise. However, there have been many research and studies about video games and their effects with mixed conclusion and different opinions rise here and there. However, there are positive effects of playing video games like improvement in both physical and mental of gamers. Hence, people should start playing video games at a young age so that they can develop the necessary skills in learning and academic behaviors. 
	There are many studies regarding the effects of playing video games even in Purdue University. Research conducted by Dr.<Name>, a professor here in Purdue, has shown that by playing video games, students improve their cognitive and perceptive skills which are very useful in subjects such as Mathematics, Science and etc. In other words, the process of acquiring knowledge and understanding is speed up by playing video games. Who would have thought video games which are completely unrelated to studying could make a huge impact in the field of education? Another research by Neuroscientist Lauren Sergio of York University in Toronto also show the comparable results when comparing the process of information processing of gamers and non-gamers (as cited by Trudeau). The current research of Dr. Watson is about incorporating video games as platforms or tools in educating students. In this way, students can learn while having a fun time playing video games which makes playing them something worthwhile during their free time. Therefore, parents should discard their mindset of video games does not have any educational value, and should just let their kids play video games. However, the right to control the duration of their children's gaming time is up to them. 
	Video games come in many types and genre and each one can have different effects from one another be it physically or mentally. Research by Dr. Watson shows that playing video games especially challenging ones can improve their gaming and real-world skills which are not only useful in learning but also in everyday course of action. He gave an example of person shooter games where one have to make precise and quick judgement if one wants to achieve success in-game. Besides that, Professor Daphne Bavalier from University of Rochester studied the effects of video games specifically action games. Based on her results, video gamers developed both their gaming skills and real-world skills like vision, attention and cognition (as cited by Trudeau). Basically, there are major improvements when one took up gaming. I doubt that playing video games can worsen the mental activity of the gamer but it may corrupt the mind in a way where it could promote violence and such. Still, people should take up gaming because of the many benefits they could bring while spending free time enjoying playing video games. 
	Just like most actions, I can't deny that there may have both positive and negative effects of playing video games. The argument of most people who despise the idea of playing video games is that video games can lead to addiction and then could result in students neglecting their studies and using most of their time playing video games. This might be true but while addiction is a serious matter, it is the job of the parents to discipline and educate their children to control their playing time since parents agree to let their children play in the first place. All the research about video games by Professor Jay Pratt from University of Toronto, Professor Daphne Bavalier from University of Rochester, and others emphasizes on parents limiting the duration of gaming time, not disallowing children to play video games (as cited by Trudeau). This way, while students can gain the benefits of playing video games, they won't disregard their studies at the same time. Moreover, I doubt a student who can discipline himself in managing his gaming time could cope juggling the time to study as well. 
	In a nutshell, playing video games can have both be good and bad for you. However, based on many research and studies, I can say the positive effects clearly outweighs the negative ones. Although parents should allow their children to play video games, they should educate their children first in managing and balancing their time for playing and doing other things such as studying, doing housework and etc. If people would stop criticizing gamers and start playing video games instead of judging them negatively, only then will they know the bliss of playing video games while experiencing the advantages of playing them. 
