Argumentative Essay, Draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Effects of taxes and duties on U.S car exports to China 
At the moment, the U.S. and its international economic rival, China, constitute two of the most powerful economies in the world. The economic struggle between the two countries, they all want to strive for even more competitive advantage in the international market. For any country trading with China, taxes and duties become the primary concern due to the high impositions placed by the country on both its imports and exports. As much as taxes and duties differ from one product to another, the car industry is the most affected by the high tariffs. The U.S. is the biggest trading partner with China. The two countries exchange all sorts of products ranging from clothing to electronics and even cars. The increased taxes and tariffs on cars imported from the U.S. have highly affected the automobile trade between the two countries. China claims that there move is solely to protect their domestic car industry, a fact that I do not agree with. This paper will take a look at some of the reasons that make me disagree with China's move to increase their duties on cars Imported from America and the effect of these taxes to the demand for American brands in China. 
According to Graeme Wearden, China's capital, imposed additional duties on cars imported from the U.S. into China in December 2011 (Wearden, 2011). In his article, the writer explains that the decision to increase the duties was based on a claim by China's Ministry of Commerce that the low prices of American cars were flooding the Chinese car market, hence hurting the domestic automobile industry. Additionally, there were claims of dumping and subsidies. The changes were poised to affect cars with big engines from various automobile manufacturing sectors facing the hike. European car manufacturing firms based in the U.S. were among the companies affected. The leading car manufacturing companies targeted by China are BMW, Chryslerand General Motors' Sports utility vehicles (SUVs) (Wearden, 2011). It should be recorded that the increase in duties seeks to increase the export costs of American-made cars to China, which were already high. In this case, I think the rising cost of importing U.S cars has made it increasingly difficult for consumers in China to import or buy American-made cars due to the costly nature of the purchase. So the Chinese government is working very hard to promote local brands despite the fact that the Chinese brands cannot compete with already established American brands in a fair marketing environment. 
Many analysts claim that the political move by China to protect its domestic car industry could affect the integrity of the international trade laws that bar countries from imposing unreasonable taxes on imports and exports to keep other traders out of the market. (Folson, Gordon and Spanogle, 2015). So I think that for big economies like China and America, any small trade choice is interpreted in a million ways with a great impact on the smaller countries. Both countries should try to work within the set procedures of international trade laws and set a good example to countries striving to be economic powerhouses like them. 
There is a general decrease in the total number of cars exported to China due to the increased costs of importing cars from America. Another outcome is the reduced production of cars due to the shrinking market in China, one of the world's largest markets for automobiles. As a result, most American families have been affected significantly with most of them losing their jobs due to downsizing actions of many car manufacturing companies. Consequently, the lack of employment has led to the reduced standards of living of many American families, a fact that will eventually affect the American economy negatively (Goodwin, 2014). The move has more or less impacted the manufacturing companies directly with a recorded low amount of sales. The three car manufacturing companies mentioned above are the most affected, though the effect will not show much for General Motors whose chief exports to China are small vehicles, which are not included in the tax increment. 
It should be noted that China received extensive criticism from America and even the World Trade Organization (WTO) for increasing its duties on American-made cars exported to China. As much as China claims to have made the move in good faith of its citizens, the bottom line still remains that what they did went against the stipulated global laws. Abruptly increasing the taxes, affected the manufacturers and American families that relied on the car export business for income. In this case, China acted wrongly and the reason or cause behind their actions was unthought-of. China should have evaluated the possible results that there actions would cause before going ahead with the increment. As a result of increasing the duties on American imported cars, more Chinese were unable to buy the American cars due to the subsequent increase in prices. Therefore, most of them opted to buy the locally-made and more affordable cars. In this way, they assisted in reviving and enhancing the domestic market for cars. 
To sum up, I think that there is a lot of negative effect on the taxes levied by the Chinese government to American Car brands. In as much as the government will defend its move as a way to protect and promote its local Auto Industry, I still support a revised way of the tax levy system that will seek to promote International brands especially to the populace that have heard previous experience with such brands (American Cars). I would like the Chinese government to reconsider its approach because she also exports a lot of her products to other countries. I am of the opinion that China should do as is expected of a global economic giant that reaps much of foreign income on exporting most of her inventions. 
