Final Draft 
Food in Dining Courts: the Reason of Obesity? 
Nowadays, people are paying more attention to obesity because obesity can lead to many other diseases such as heart disease, hypertension, dyslipidemia, impaired glucose tolerance and vascular abnormalities (Baker, 2007, p.2330). One of the important reasons of obesity is the high calorie food. During the time when I was having my meal in the dining courts, I found that some people were apparently suffered from obesity. Then a question came into my mind: is the food in dining courts the main reason of obesity? After doing a series of research, I found that the food offered in the dining courts meets three important aspects: freshness, diversity and nutritional balance. So I hold the view that the food in dining courts is healthy enough for us. 
Healthy diet firstly comes from fresh and clean food ingredients. The dining courts at Purdue do a good job to ensure the reliability of food ingredients. <name> , the supervisor of Ford dining court who has been working there for seven years, told me that the majority of frozen meat, bread and milk come from food stores at Purdue, Piazza Produce and Dean's ( <name> , personal communication, October 15, 2015). In order to keep the food ingredients fresh and clean, all fruit and vegetables are local food. Some of them even come from the student farm at Purdue. <name> , a student in the engineering department who has meals at Ford dining court every day, also agrees that the vegetables are really fresh. He told me that the fresh lettuce is his favorite food in the dining courts even though he is not a vegetarian ( <name> , personal interview, October 14, 2015). 
A healthy diet should contain diverse food. The diversity of food ensure people to be able to intake adequate daily required nutrition. Take the Ford dining court for instance, it offers more than 20 different kinds of food just for dinner and more than 40 kinds of food in total every day. Inside every menu, there are several kinds of meat such as Corn Dogs, Beef Gyros and Catfish Strip, vegetables like Tempura Batter Vegetables and Lettuce Salad, fruits like bananas and apples, and other food like Sausage Pizza and fries (Dining Menus, Nov. 30th, 2015). <name> also told me that "the menus are different every day and are on a cycle of five weeks" ( <name> , personal communication, October 15, 2015). 
The diversity does not equal to healthy, but the menus of the dining courts are quite balanced. The menus are designed by certified people. <name> told me that the dining courts hire chefs and system dining court managers to build the menus ( <name> , personal communication, October 15, 2015). They know that people nowadays are more health conscious and they designed healthy menus. For adults, a healthy diet should contain food, vegetables, legumes, nuts and whole grains (WHO, 2015). Vegetables and fruits are adequate. Bananas, apples and oranges are served in the dining courts every day. Lettuce, spinach, carrots and green beans can be found and people can make their own vegetable salad in the dining courts. Rice and bread are also unlimited. In a word, the dining courts serve several kinds of food that are supposed to be in a healthy diet. If you look at the everyday menus, you will discover that these healthy food are the majority. 
However, some people might disagree with my opinion. Indeed, the dining courts also serve fries, pulled pork slider and other fried food. But they are not the main reasons that lead to obesity at Purdue. First, what you choose to eat does matter. The dining courts offer buffet, which means that you have freedom to choose your food. One example is the beverage. According to <name> , even though there are more than ten types of soft beverages being offered in the dining courts, the most popular drink is the water ( <name> , personal communication, October 15, 2015). Students do know that drinking water is much healthier. People should learn how to contain the energy they intake every day. According to the suggestion by World Health Organization (WHO), adults should intake less than 10% of total energy from free sugars and approximately 2000 calories per day (WHO, 2015). The dining courts do a great job in guiding people to eat healthier. All the calories content for food are labeled. Third, unhealthy food is not the only reason of obesity. Western societies display an increased tendency toward sedentary lifestyle (Vilchis-Gil, 2015, p.2). Not taking enough physical activities is also considered to be the reason of obesity (Rivera, 2002, p.121). 
In conclusion, the food offered in dining courts is not the main reason of obesity. The dining courts offer clean, fresh and diverse food, including junk food like hamburgers and fries. But people are not forced to eat them. Opposite, the dining courts show us the information of food and guide us to eat healthier. So it is our own responsibility to choose healthier food to eat. 
Reference 
Yu, Z. et al. (2012). Trends in Overweight and Obesity among Children and Adolescents in China from 1981 to 2010: A Meta Analysis. PLo S ONE 7(12): e51949. doi:10.1371/journal.pone. 0051949 
World Health Organization. (2015, September). Healthy Diet. Retrieved November 18, 2015 from http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs394/en/ 
Purdue University. (2015, November). Dining Menus. Retrieved November 30, 2015 from http://www.housing.purdue.edu/Menus/FORD 
J, Vilchis-Gil. et al. (2015). Food habits, physical activities and sedentary lifestyles of eutrophic and obese school children: a case-control study. BMC Public Health, 15(1), 1-9. 
J, Baker., L, Olsen., and T, S rensen. (2007). Childhood Body-Mass Index and the Risk of Coronary Heart Disease in Adulthood. The New England Journal of Medicine, 357(23), 2329-2337. 
J, Rivera. et al. (2002). Epidemiological and nutritional transition in Mexico: rapid increase of non-communicable chronic diseases and obesity. Public Health Nutrition, 5, pp 113-122. doi:10.1079/PHN2001282. 
