April 14, 2016 
Should Chinese students attend universities in America ? 
In recent year, it seems that more and more Chinese students are choosing to study abroad. Between 2007 and 2012 the number of Chinese in American colleges rose from 12% to 29%Freeman & Huang, 2015, p21. This phenomenon causes society and education circles to extensive attention and discuss. Why most Chinese students choose to attend universities in America? Does Chinese student studying abroad can be conducive to completely upgrade themselves-value? What is the advantage of attending universities in America? This topic has become a very intriguing argument. In fact, American education systems are more systematic and advanced than Chinese education systems. Students should go abroad for higher studies if there's a chance. 
Some people thinks that Chinese students should not study abroad. A lot of people claim that most Chinese student want to study abroad because of their poor grades. They can't go to college in China. The college entrance exam is too difficult for most Chinese student, as compared to SAT or TOEFL which are significantly easier. English is not really a problem when the test is standardized. And some foreign colleges eager to bolster their diversity and expand their international appeal, students without IELTS and TOEFL scores can also be accepted by foreign colleges. If you google for study in America without TOEFL scores, you will find that a lot of American colleges admit international students without TOFEL scores. People have misconceptions about overseas Chinese students because of those students who are unlearned. Therefore, they think Chinese students should not study abroad because it is largely a waste of money. In addition, students in China are pressured to think about their careers from a young age by their families and teachers. Accompanying the increase in the number of students leaving and returning to China is the decrease in the value of returnees. In 2015, 350,000 sea turtles returned to China, a 30% rise over the prior year compared with a 56% rise in 2014 China's Ministry of Education,2015. Because of this, more and more people thinks that overseas students are as same as students who graduated from local colleges. Students with a foreign degree seem not have a more promising future. However, that is not all factors for why more and more Chinese students attend foreign colleges. 
In fact, there are a lots of people would like to study abroad. Mostly because it broadens your mind and gives perspective. Mangy students said that studying abroad revamped their self-confidence and independence. On the other hand, some Chinese students want to escape China's pressure cooker education system. There is intense pressure on students to perform well academically in China. Most high school students' life consisted of averaging at least 12 hours a day on their academics. There is no rest time at the weekend because their parents send them to after-hours programs at the weekend. Nevertheless, it is still so hard to get a good grade in Chinese colleges entrance exam. In Chinese media, there are lot of articles comparing the educational systems between China and America. Most pay attention to the failure of Chinese exam-based education. Students are less imaginative and lack the ability of practices, experience and so on. Conversely, schooling in other countries seems very attractive. The foreign education system makes Chinese young people feel the sense of freedom. This is a primary reason that why they want to study abroad. 
For another important factor, Chinese students who study abroad can get better jobs for higher pay if they return to China. This is due to the prestige of foreign universities in the eyes of the Chinese populace. "Studying and living abroad is a must, not just to acquire language skill, but in order to become truly bi-cultural." Said by Alain Benichou, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in France and vice president of Strategy & Solutions at IBM in Paris. Actually, China has increased global attention as tourists, multinationals, media and foreign researchers venture into the country. Our motherland needs bi-cultural talent. People who can acquire more language abilities will have more chances to be a leader or a civil servants. All in all, if you're a middle level Chinese student, if you can study abroad you'll reap the benefits of a better job at home or abroad. Why wouldn't you want to study abroad. 
In summary, Chinese student should study abroad. Not just Chinese student, but all exam-oriented education system students should study abroad. For me, studying abroad is to experience diversities and people with an abroad education background may find a better career after returning to China. It means if you can study abroad, you can have a better further. In my opinion, higher level education is still better in America than most Asian universities. I think there is a common trend among Asian students in seeking education overseas. 
