Video Games: A New Era of Sports? 
A few days ago, Kobe Bryant just retired from NBA, which is a real and traditional sport association. Myriad of people in the world sat in front of televisions and shared this moment with each other. We all say that this twenty-years long journey of a man is a miracle and we all feel the power from a basketball athlete. And half a year ago, on the other side of the earth, an eminent player of Star Craft, Lee 'Flash' Young Ho retired from his team. Flash's career created a new and hard-to-reach height for every Star Craft player. Until today, many players still respect him as the greatest player of Star Craft. They are elites in different domain and both respected by people. As I say, an e-sport player can be treated as a traditional sport player. Therefore, video games should be seen as a sport just like how people treat video game players. 
But, not all people respect Kobe Bryant, Flash as the same kind of players. Many people don't believe that basketball, video games could be categorized as sports. They used the definition from Merriam- Webster Dictionary as a kind of evidence: "Sport is a contest or game in which people do certain physical activities according to a specific set of rules and compete against each other." Mish et al. 2004 They emphasized 'physical activities' and mentioned that video games can contain a part of competition, but none of them requires high physical ability. In addition, games like Star Craft need participants play computer games, they should consider the accurate time to push forward and conquer their enemies' territory in order to win a match. These players fight for themselves and do not need to collaborate with others. However, for those traditional sports, like basketball, team spirit is vital to win. In effect, those people think video games are totally unrelated to sports. Matthew Clough, 2016 
Are those statements above true? For me, the answer is no. After I read an article which supports that video games should not be classified as a sport. I noticed there was only one comment at the bottom of the page. It said in a cynical way: 'If stupidity has mass, then you are a black hole. -----from gamers'. As a truth, video game players trained day by day and their APM can be over 1200-means more than twenty actions done by keyboard and computer mouse in one second. People cannot reach such a value of APM without any training. In this way, e-sport gamers also require to have strong bodies. Furthermore, those professional players understand that they can only get a few dollars, no more than ten thousands of dollars by playing games one year. For instance, the whole bonus pool of GSL Finals usually is only one percent of Kobe Bryant's salary which is twenty-two millions of dollars. But they still practice dedicatedly and diligently. Most players dedicate best time of their life into video games. The debut of Flash was at the time when he was only 14 years old. And he left his stage eight years later. At the same age, we are in school and quarrel with our parents. For their dedication, video games are more popular among different generations and becoming a beloved pastime, sport. Thus, they should be esteemed as athletes. 
From what Matthew Clough said, it is stupid and ridiculous to make team spirit equal to sports. There is no doubt that most physical sports need cooperation, good assist and support from your teammates. But, to rebut this, the first thing comes to my mind is table tennis Ping-Pang and then boxing, high jump, long jump. So many sports could and should be done by one person. Players may get aid from their coaches, analysts and medicals, but in the match, on the way to break records and limits, there is no team spirit. Thus, nobody is able to say that video games should not be classified as sports because video games don't require team spirit, no need to mention those games what are played by several members, for example LOL DOTA... And of course, as I said before, a strong physical exertion is also a demand of video games. 
In the future, VR equipment becomes common in people's life. More jerk need to be done while playing computer/video games. As a truth, not all video games can be seen as a sport. But for those games including athletic ability and mental strength, when played in VR instruments, would be more like, even same as those conventional sports. 
But still, VR is an illusion right now. Keyboard, Computer mouse and Game grip are still the trident of video games and discrimination of video games always exists. I still remember the day of GSL finals, the host said to the champion Im MVP another South Korean Star Craft player and audience with tears in his orbits: 'My parents said to me, Jones, it is just a game, quit it.' Yes, so many people are 'racist', not for ethnicity, but for matches. Nevertheless, before the light from dawn, there always is full of dark. I also remember that host said in the end:" Being here today, people from all over the world, share this moment. It is nothing that money can do. It is a miracle." Exactly, it is a miracle and it is a new era. 
Reference List 
Matthew Clough. October 2 2015. Video games should not be classified as a sport. The university daily Kansan. Retrieved from http://www.kansan.com/opinion/clough-video-games-should-not-be-classified-as-a-sport/article_75802f0c-68d4-11e5-9037-67c2fab3dda3.html 
Mish, R. D., Joanne M. D., & James, R. D. Eds.. 2004. The Merriam-Webster dictionary 6th ed.. Made in the United States of America 
