Argumentative Essay 
4/17/2016 
Draft 2 
Nuclear energy changes the world 
	People without energy are just like fish without water, or birds without wings. Energy being one of the most significant parts in our daily lives provides us brightness, warmth and necessities. Jimmy Carter, the 39th president of the U.S, said that Energy will be the immediate test of our ability to unite this Nation, and it can also be the standard around which we rally. On the battlefield of energy we can win for our Nation a new confidence, and we can seize control again of our common destiny. Also, in his speech about national energy situation, he put forward that Because we are now running out of gas and oil, we must prepare quickly for a third change, to strict conservation and to the use of permanent renewable energy sources, like nuclear power. Although all countries try to use nuclear power as their mothball energy source, the devastating effects and potential disoperation slowed their steps. So here comes a hot topic that whether should Japanese government limit the development of nuclear plants? And I think we should limit the usage of nuclear power. 
	Similar to my opinion, Japanese government tends to hold new plans of nuclear research and development due to the consideration of safety. Safeness as the major uncontrollable factor made all scientists feel tormented. Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, three miles island accident, Kyshtym disaster and so on killed millions of innocence city-dwellers' live. 'If we already lose our live, why we need energy?' being a hot topic in Tokyo daily newspaper after Fukushima accident attracted people's attention. For me I definitely stand on the side that people's live cannot be compared with development of energy because its much more valuable. Until now, I still remember the day when I entered the local history museum. I was shocked by that photography called Casualties of war, which I mentioned, in my narrative paper before. 
From this photo, I clearly captured several Japanese citizens laying dead in the pools of blood and there were some black potions on their back. Because nuclear bombs caused their back skin burnt. Just by seeing this photo, I sensed the tragic death of the war. These bombs were responsible of millions of inculpable people, and this mass killing finally brought the end of terrible war. Not only the safeness issue but also the environmental injuries also prevent the forward step. Eutrophication is another result of radioactive wastes. There are many seminars and conferences being held every year to look for a specific solution. But there is no outcome as of now. Reports say that radioactive wastes take almost 10,000 years to get back to the original form. So after Fukushima accident, in 2012, Japanese GDP(growth domestic production) largely declined because foreign countries were not willing to import Japanese seafood due to the reason that radioactive waste caused the deformation of aquatic lives. Based on the potential hazards I mentioned above, most Japanese citizens hold a counterview to this proposal. They want their government to limit researches about nuclear power. 
	In summary, there is an old saying 'Each coin has two side.' Just like nuclear energy. We cannot deny its benefits, but under current era, it not only brings catastrophic effects on human life but also leads national risks between countries. It also has other externalities like impact on aquatic life and pollution. So it's better for government to control its usage. 
Work cited: 
2 
