The truth of the time 
Purdue University 
Truth of the time 
Abstract 
This research paper focuses on finding the relationship between the working time and performance of the work, and find some scientific ways to work efficiently and productively. By improving the topic, several studies are mentioned. There are three parts of topic, first is to find the relationship of the amount of time and performance, then managing the boy energy. Finally, is about the scientific way to improve the efficiency of working. 
When college students register classes, they always face a problem is how to arrange the spare time between each class to use the time efficiently and productively. Part of the students like to register all classes in the morning or afternoon, then they could have a large amount of spare time in the morning or afternoon. However, another part of student would like to separate the classes evenly, and have two or three fragmented time. In order to find out relatively efficient and usable schedule, we need to figure out the the relationship between working time and performance of work--------- Dose the performance of the work depends on how much time you work on it? 
Actually, how to work efficiently is an essential problem not only for a lot of freshman or students in the college, but also for every social worker in the real life. The entrepreneur gets the same amount of time a day, but how to conquer the whole market or a specific filed, they need a think tank to finish the project efficiently and successfully. From the study of Thomas (1997) shows that the consecutive overtime scheduled would worsening the working situation and be less productively. Even though some workers would like to spend extra time to work, working result is not always pleasant and good. A study conducted by Burkland (2013) focus on the break patterns of office workers can actually increase the productivity. Then I would start with those two study of working. 
In the early 1990s, Thomas (1997) states that the consecutive overtime scheduled would worsening the working situation and be less productively. The data collected with labor productivity in 121 weeks, 10-15% losses of efficiency for 50 and 60 hours work weeks (Thomas, 1997) The reason of losses of efficiency are complex, the body strength, energy, and working environment might take in to account. And the results also compare with other published data which is Business Roundtable(BRT) curves, which is a curve state the relationship between the working efficiency and time form a published journal 
thus the conclusion of the efficiency losses is valid. And The study of Burkland (2013), his experiment conducted by using an app to track what the employees are doing, and they found out those employees who are working effectively would spend six minutes to have a break, after 56 minutes working. (Burkland2013) Therefore, this reading conducts a result that the six minutes' break is most appropriate about of time for a break, and claims that if you spend six minutes for a break would be more efficient on working. 
After analyzing the relationship between time and efficiency from the reading of Thomas (1997), and Burkland (2013), this reading material discusses the performance in physical way. And it shifts the focus on managing and renewing the body energy. Tony and Mc Carthy (2007) state that manage the energy reasonably are important method to work efficiently. An anecdote event of Steve Wanner who has heavy work and it declines quality of his people's life which contains the performance of work and the personal activities. Tony and Mc Carthy(2007) state "Most of us respond to rising demands in the workplace by putting in longer hours, which inevitably take a toll on us physically, mentally, and emotionally." Thus, they start an Wachovia study to find out the relationship. The experiment contained 106 employments form different region, and gave them a specific training strategy to work on. Then they find out that four essential factors of working-the body, emotions, mind, and spirit-and these factors could be expanded and cultivated to increase our working efficiency. To have a healthy life style, regular life schedule, and positive emotion, we are more likely to work efficiently and have a better life. Then it is important for us to build and renew the physical energy to have a better state of body to solve the problem, since the time is finite resources and the long time work would have a negative of working result. As a result, the amount of working time is not essential problem of performance. 
Furthermore, the online course talks about learning how to learn form University of California, San Diego. In the first class it talks the two mode of memorizing, it is important to apply into the real life. Besides walking around and listening to the music, exercising could also help individuals have a diffuse mode which can help individuals enhance the memory. According to the research, exercise could help body to renew the neutron and keep the brain as healthy as the body. The quality of sleep also influences the study, because when people thinking and learning, brain would accumulate a specific substance which is metabolic toxins, and the sleep would help people to clean this substance. And this knowledge corresponds with my interviewee Yu Ding's personal experience, he talks about exercising and entertainment could help learning more efficiently that match the reading about diffuse study mode. Because, when people start to learn a new knowledge, the brain prefer to use the diffuse mode. However, to change the learning mode as you wish to is not easy. Individual needs to do some entertainments and activities to help the brain into diffuse mode, thus his experience could explain the importance of having leisure time. 
As a conclusion, long time working would looses the working efficiency, because the stringy of body, energy and working environment. In order to have a good performance, we need to focus on the physical things, like the body building, emotion, human sprit and energy. And for the student or worker, scheduled overtime would cause a loses of working efficiency, rather increaser your amount of working. 
Reference: 
Burkland, C (2013) The Effects of Taking a Short Break: Task Difficulty, Need for Recovery 
Avaliableform : http://www2.uwstout.edu/content/lib/thesis/2013/2013burklandd.pdf 
Tony, S. Mange your energy, not your time. Available from: https://hbr.org/2007/10/manage-your- 
energy-not-your-time 
Thomas, H (1997) Scheduled overtime and labor Productivity: quantitative Analysis. Available 
form: http://ascelibrary.org/doi/10.1061/(ASCE)0733-9364(1997)123%3A2(181) 
Vancexu, (2015, Jan 8), Learning how to learn: part one [ blogs reading ]. Retrieved from : 
http://vancexu.github.io/2015/01/08/learning-how-to-learn-part-one.html	 
