Final Draft 
December 4, 2015 
The Fairness of Beauty 
Beauty is a word that causes controversy in our world today. Specially when talking about female beauty. There are so many different opinions, ideas and definitions that society can t agree upon. Based on my unsolved doubt regarding how both genders categorize women s beauty, I came up with the question: what are the standards of female beauty from the perspective of men and women? After intensive research was done using diverse sources, men s standards of beauty towards females differ from those of women. According to the sources I ve researched, men base women s beauty determiners on the physical characteristics of women that the social media has depicted and display as "perfection." On the other hand, women rank their beauty according to their self-steam and others opinions, especially those from the opposite gender. 
When classifying a woman as beautiful, men analyze women based on the physical characteristics females have in advertisements. According to Rhodes (2006), our natural behavior has set unconscious beauty determiners throughout time. Symmetry, averageness and sexual dimorphism are the three principal aspects men analyze in women. They determine what women characteristics are similar in respect with those that society has catalogued as "pretty." Also, thinking more instinctively, sexual dimorphism represents the reproductive potential and sexual maturity in a woman as a potential mother. Symmetry refers to the balance and youthfulness of a woman s face. The more symmetrical a women s face, the more beautiful. Social media has been in charge of selling the false illusion of "perfection", by editing women s images thereby forcing them to meet unrealistic beauty standards. This unconsciously obliges society to consider beauty as having to meet certain standards (<name>, personal communication, October 16, 2015). The perspective media has shown women s beauty has shaped society s opinion and has generated despair between genders. Men categorize women as beautiful when their physical traits resemble the ones from women that appear in advertising, while women feel constantly objectified or inferior due to the unreachable standards of beauty. 
Women are unable to rank their own physical beauty or other women s beauty objectively. When ranking their own beauty they depend on others opinions, especially men s, and when ranking others, their self-steam has an inverse correlation to how they rank other's beauty. According to Rokeach s experiment (1941), women with a higher self-esteem overestimated their appearance, while women with a low self-esteem underestimated their physical beauty. There was also a trend in the study that showed that when women underestimated their beauty, they rated other women as pretty, and contrariwise. After the experiment was concluded, it was hypothesized that women try to maintain a level of their self-esteem by rating others conversely to how they see themselves. Also a cosmetologist, <name>, stated that women pay a lot of money not to improve their skin health, but to resemble the characteristics men found beautiful in a woman. Men are responsible for the obsession women have for achieving the unexciting "perfect beauty." Since the beginning of times, women have been considered as the inferior gender. They are also the ones that need to strive in order to please men, and this is not the exception (<name>, personal communication, October 15, 2015). 
Due to males' lower self-control regarding sexual drive, they tend to label women aspretty faster and in a more superficial way than women. According to Professor Baumeister (2010), in order to satisfy their sexual urge, men tend to lower their beauty expectations on women when looking for a sexual partner. However, that doesn t have a correlation with falling in love. Women, on the other hand, have more control. There is also a social tag towards women that classifies them automatically as "easy women" if they have sex with many men just for pleasure. For this reason, this doesn t apply for women when categorizing others as beautiful. This statement is directly related to what <name> said in the interview regarding women trying to meet certain beauty standards just to satisfy or get the attention of the opposite gender. 
