Argumentative Essay Draft One 
31st October 2015 
i OS vs Android: Security Decoded 
Large population of people use smartphones and claim it to be convenient for education, business, entertainment, reservations and also development recently. The smartphones run modern operating systems that are able to carry all the tasks. A lot of important and confidential data is stored on local systems and exchanged with outside networks. Hence, it is important to make sure that data storage and exchange are secure. Security features of i OS and Android will be considered for this paper because these two are the most popular mobile operating systems and covering each and every mobile operating system in the market is not pragmatic. Since 2008, Android's security vs i OS's security has been a hot argumentative topic. Personally, I consider i OS to be more secure. I will provide rational evidence to prove my point. In this paper, we will see how the architecture of operating system has a direct affect on the its security, the security features and policies adopted by Android and i OS and the freedom given to the users by the two operating systems. 
(Ahmed & Masoom, 2015) in their journal have clearly explained the affect of operating system's architecture on its security. Android applications run on Dalvik virtual machine (DVM). DVM is a virtual platform used for running Android applications. Hence, none of the applications are able to interfere with the root processes of the operating system or with each other. It comes out that this is the focal point of Android's security features and policies. No application is guaranteed to perform a task that could harmfully affect other applications, operating system and the user. This is forced by the DVM and default Linux platform permissions. Linux platform was mentioned because Android was built on a Linux platform so Android inherits all the basic Linux features and policies. On the other hand, i OS uses UNIX's security features for less complex security features. Again i OS is developed on a UNIX platform so it inherits the basic security features of UNIX. Common Data Security Architecture (CDSA) is used to implement its more complex security features. A major threat is by the applications that have been given basic rights by default. This means, the pre-installed applications that we see when a new i-Device is bought are given complete freedom to access the hidden files. Any flaw found in these pre-installed applications can be exploited to gain unrestricted access to the device. 
The former discussed argument gave a picture of i OS being less secure. In this paragraph we will see that this not always the case. Referring to the above paragraph, it is very difficult and resource consuming task to find a flaw in the pre-installed applications. (Tech Target, n.d.) through their article gave a descriptive analysis of the security features, policies and user rights offered by Android and i OS. Both run their applications in such a way that none can affect or interfere with each other or the operating system. But i OS steps up here and makes sure the applications are completely detached from any other process running. One could imagine it as running it in a dark empty room completely isolated from the outside world. Android is different, even though the applications run on DVMs independently, they can still cross-examine each other's code and are able to share the same removable storage. Removable storage is the SD cards or micro SD cards used in phones. Not to forget i OS doesn't support external storage. Consider a situation where the malicious application has entered the device. If the device were running Android, it can examine the code of other running applications and can easily figure out the location of storage and it will be able to get unrestrictive access to rest of the device. On the other hand, in an i OS running device, it would rather be impossible for malicious application to enter the device in the first place. Even it does, its complete isolation from the rest will make it difficult to launch an attack. Again not to forget, if the malicious application aims to exploit a flaw of a pre-installed application then it may become successful in infecting the device. 
A question rises after the above discussion. How will the harmful application enter the device? Apple keeps a tight grip on the applications and reviews them for any potential threats before releasing them publicly. So, it is highly unlikely for a harmful application to make it to the Apple App Store. Google took a more open approach. The developers are given freedom to design their applications and submit it on Google Play (the Android application store) without any real checks. On top of that the user is given the freedom to install applications from anywhere over the internet (Tech Target, n.d.). Clearly, there is high possibility for a malware to sneak in and cause harm or even steal user data. An article from foss Bytes (2015) supports the previous statement. It informed the readers of a newly discovered malware for Android devices. The application once installed fakes itself as a Microsoft Word application and tempts the user to open it. Once, the user opens the application the malware gets installed. The malware steals all the sensitive data it may find and mails it to the attacker. The beauty of this attack is that the user won't have a clue of what is going on and neither (s)he is able to install it" (foss Bytes, 2015). 
Even if a malware enters the device, Android has a malware scanner. So, there is a chance that the malware might get detected and securely disposed. But i OS doesn't have a malware scanner which makes it extremely vulnerable to malware attacks (Tech Target, n.d.). One must always remember that getting a malware into an i OS running software is itself challenging so Apple might have taken a calculated risk in not having a malware scanner. Citrix Systems in 2013 published a report which estimated the adoption rate of mobile OS in business. Citrix (2013) also presented a graph indicating mobile OS adoption rates by different industries. It was inferred that overall i OS was preferred by the business sector. 
There is no clear cut winner in the argument and may not be in the future either considering their exponential progress. The flaws or short comings of one operating system are covered by the other. For example, Android is likely to be attacked by a malware and hence they have a malware scanner. But, its not possible for a malware to make it to the App Store without being checked so i OS doesn't require a malware checker. The way they run their programs is quite similar but due to very fine differences i OS just nudges past Android. Google is really in an awkward situation. They have announced Android to be and open source access and have always taken an open approach. They invite attackers to attack them. They must step up their application screening process. I also feel that i OS shouldn't allow the pre-installed applications to have unrestrictive access to the hidden files and should follow Android's approach. 
