Social Skills Regain 
"Culture is the whole complex of distinctive spiritual, material, intellectual and emotional features that characterizes a society or a group. It includes creative expressions, community practices and material or built forms." (Serageldin, 1996) Every culture is charming because of their unique and irreplaceable perceptive of the world and ways of doing things. These lead us to different life schemas and social skills, which further lead to culture shock when people live in another culture. Small life hassles can be amplified into big trouble, and might bring misunderstandings among people. People in America would say "how are you" to almost everyone when greeting people, but people in China wouldn't do that unless knowing each other very well, and won't ask back. We might generate an unfriendly-like behavior in greeting in Chinese way. In that, social skills need to be regained during adaption to another culture, and it's the most effective way to smoothly transit to a new life style to behave in a more local way. 
Social skill is the exterior form of a culture, and also is the most basic part of a culture. A series of skills forms a cultural schema stored in our brain, based on which we have common sense on social activities (Nishida, 1999). When people talk about culture, they always focus on how people behave under specific circumstances. Although it seems easy to understand differences when talking about culture shock, but when it comes to reality, you will realize how deep the social skill schema of our own culture is imprinted in your thoughts and behaviors, and it is really hard to change just by knowing the differences. That is why people should regain social skills to get through culture shock. 
Regaining local social skills is the most efficient way to conquer culture shock. First, it helps people know local social schema to fit in new environment, which gives you chance to be more involved and successful in both life and career; second, it can lessen stress and improve both physical and mental health; third, it is easy to achieve and practice, because social skills can be gained by doing little daily hassles in different situations; forth, through gaining local social skills, people can experience the spirit of the host culture, and might eventually appreciate them by doing customs as a habit. These points make regaining social skills a strong method of conquering culture shock, which will be further discussed in following paragraphs. 
Regaining local social skills can help you be "normally-behaved" for fitting in, which is the first and the most significant step of conquering culture shock. Being normally-behaved gives us more chances to well impress others, which helps build friendship with local people, more fit in host culture, and then more successful in career. It seems impossible having a good image when you were misunderstood rude due to a not fitting behavior, not to mention building a friendship. Even though you are really good at something, you will still be thought of weird if don't normally behave. Good feelings of fitting in, which are built by gaining local social skills, gives people courage in other tasks. Other kinds of ways to conquer culture shock somewhat help in normally behaving, but not so effective as regaining social skills, like keeping talk with people can relieve your depressed feelings and help lessen the influence of culture shock on academy, but it doesn't help you improve to be more like a local resident because of no learning and practicing customs. Regaining social skills gives us the tool to change a status of being different, and helps feel good in not being so weird. After that, good impression on others will let you more positive in doing other things, in that forming a good reinforcement of regaining more social skills. 
Regaining social skills lessens people's stress and improves both physical and mental or psychological stress from facing culture shock. Stress originates from change (Nairne, 2014), and no doubtfully, living in another culture is totally a life change, which will generate much stress when differences are obvious. Why gaining social skills can be effective is because it reduces behavior differences by changing yourself to be more local when you cannot change the environment to be the way you like. It is a process of reappraisal of changes: when you are adaptable in different social customs, changes will be no longer felt and will not bother you as a stressor. Without stress, the physical and mental health of people will naturally develop, helping improve other performance in study and career. 
Another point of effectiveness of regaining social skills to conquer culture shock is that they can be easily learnt through daily life dialogue with different people, and of course it is no harder than getting an insight of a culture. Jot down how people behave, use it for next time, then a skill formed. Social skills are on the surface of a culture, which you can get whenever you take a notice on little things. The control is in hand, not like consult, a counselor is needed. You can go different places to try your new schema of social activities, and notice how people respond and do the same thing for the next time. 
However, this kind of training might be inadequate to break down culture shock, and it might not get you fully accept new customs. It is somewhat the truth if you only see social skills only as surface things of a culture. However, culture spirits are exactly lying in little things like daily greeting. Like the "how are you" story mentioned above, we get the idea that people in America like to show care when they meet new friends, and it is also important to show your concern for others to ask back. Maybe people still cannot agree with this custom and cannot show true care to people, but at least doing the same thing with local friends makes you fit in and be welcomed by others, which probably will let you feel good in gaining that social skill. It is not hard to predict that with time going, the skills will become your habits and you will accept the idea that it is good and warm to care others. Finally, people really feel good in doing local customs, form a local perception in how social activities should work, and then culture shock gradually diminishes. 
Regaining social skills is easy to achieve and help you in behaving normally for fitting in. By doing that, stress will be lessened and courage will be gained, which helps both physical and mental health leading to further success of study and life. Even though it is considered as the most surface part of a culture, little social skills indicate inner spirits of culture, like how people perceive friendship in greeting people. Good image of self can be formed by doing what others do, which leads to a welcomed reaction of people, good feeling of fitting in, and courage in doing other things. As for a method of conquering culture shock, regaining social skills is the most effective way. 
