Making American friends 
Which one is easier, a five legged alien from mars blending in America, or a foreign exchange student adapting to American culture? I'd say the international student has it worse. After all, they are only human, and are afraid of interacting with Americans, whereas the alien can just transform or melt humans with a death ray. There are more than 1. 4 million international students around the world studying in the United States each year. However, according to many surveys of some authoritative American magazines, most international students cannot adapt to the American environment, they feel lonely and pitiful in many times. Thus, how to make American friends becomes the main problem plagued most international students. As a Chinese student studying in the United States, I have the same problem like most international students. I am eager to solve the problem why international students struggle so much to find American friends. After my research, there are two main views about why international students are struggling to make American friends in the society. I believe the real reason that international students cannot make American friends is that international students are unable to overcome their fears to communicate with American students. This is because of two main aspects of psychological factors, for example, their shyness and psychological exclusivity. 
Many American students are friendly, however, most international students are too shy to make the first step to talk to American students because they fear that they may react in a negative way. Bado, N. who was an international student at the American Juniata College in central Pennsylvania wrote in his article Are American Students Anti-International Students, "American students are nice as all the international students on your campuses. Don't be shy. Go and talk to American students if they do not come and talk to you first. That is the only way we can promote cultural understanding between people from different cultures." (Bado, 2006, p.1) The sentence above supports my point of view very well. The sentence tells people that shyness makes international students shy far away from American students, and overcoming shyness is a necessity for international students to make American friends. Now, I want to take myself as an example. When I first came to America I was shy to speak English to others. Because I thought my English is not good. Therefore, at the beginning, I was lonely and had no one to talk to. However, one experience completely changed my thought. About two months ago, my English class instructor asked me to write a proposal. But I never wrote a proposal, I did not know how to do that. I was confused. However, the paper was due next day, I was so anxious. I asked for help from many my Chinese friends but they also did not know exactly what to do about the proposal. I felt despair but one day I met my American neighbor. He was playing computer games in his room. I hoped that he could help me. But, I was so shy to talk to him, and I was afraid that he does not want to help me. At last, I decided to overcome my shyness to ask for him under the pressure of the paper due. I was perturbed to go to his room with my laptop. I knocked his door. "Come in." "Excuse me, eh... I am sorry to bother you, can you do me a favor?" I asked carefully. And then, I explained my problems to him. "No problem." He answered without hesitation. I felt so excited, and showed my paper to him at once. He glanced at my paper, pointed out my mistakes, and told me how to modify that. He explained to me my mistakes in the paper very patiently and with details. Finally, I completed my paper successfully through his help. Ever since that day, we became good friends and often chat with each other. Facts have proved that majority of American students are kind and friendly. International students need to overcome shyness, and try to communicate with American students. 
About psychological exclusivity factor, I believe my last interview can prove that very well. I interviewed a Professor's research assistant in Purdue University about a month ago. The assistant is called Hanna, and she assists the professor in completing the project of researching international students' lives at Purdue. She has lots of experience and skills in helping international students make American friends. She told me that she had interviewed a lot of international students, and she found that the most common trouble for international students making American friends is that everybody has a psychological exclusivity. She gave me an example, American students like to be together with American students and Chinese students prefer to be together with Chinese students. Most people will feel a sense of security when they are together with the people who have the same characteristics, the same races or come from the same country as them. Therefore, most international students do not want to contact American students, because of the psychological exclusivity. Hanna thought international students should join more clubs or activities with American students, and try to eliminate the psychological pressure and overcome the psychological exclusivity. She believed that international students can feel that American students are very friendly and willing to make friends with international students through many activities. 
In comparison, I feel that people who cite "The Differences of Culture and Language between American and International Students is the Main Problem between International students and American Students." are incorrect. "Globalization is the process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views, products, ideas and other aspects of culture. Advances in transportation and telecommunication, including the rise of the telegraph and its posterity the Internet, are major factors in globalization, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities." (Wikipedia, 2014). Nowadays, with the development of globalization, the cultural gaps between different countries are becoming smaller. Although globalization makes it easier for international students to communicate with Americans, they are still too afraid. Since coming to the United States, I was too afraid to talk to American students. I thought we differ too much in language and culture. However, one incident happened about two months ago that completely changed my view. I was going back to my dorm when I saw another room's door open. I found an American student playing online game. I felt excited at that time, because I played the same game. I went to his room immediately to talk about this game with him. He was very pleased to find a student who plays the same game as he does. We introduced ourselves through this game and exchanged our views about it. Since then, we have talked about many topics we are interested in, such as games, cars, and movies. It was evident that culture did not hinder our ability to communicate. We can share many of the same interests due to the development of globalization. Thus, I don't think the difference in culture is a struggle hindering international students from making American friends. The necessary thing international students need to do is to talk to American students first. 
In conclusion, I will not hesitate to support the real reason that international students cannot make American friends is that international students are unable to overcome their psychological factors to communicate with American students because of their shyness and psychological exclusivity. Since most American students are kind or friendly, and it is easy for international students to find a common language with American students with the development of globalization. The only thing international students need to do is to eliminate their psychological factors, and try to communicate and to join in activities with American students. I hope that every international student can make American friends. 
