P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 27, 2015 
Student Establish Business 
Nowadays, startup Company is a very common phenomenon in our society as more and more young people choose to start their own business. They have their own ideas and they want to achieve their dreams. However, not all startup companies are successful. Many young entrepreneurs fail when competing with many other small companies as well as the big companies which are successful in the market. There are still debates about whether the college students need to start their own company when they are young. In my opinion, college students who are interested in establishing business need to work at it during their college life, because they can learn a lot that will never be written on the textbook and they can also enhance their experiences in the society. 
According to Kohler, M. J, who is the writer of Why Your College Student Should Start a Business, lists several key points to support that college student need to establish their own business. First of all, no matter they succeed or not for their first start business, even though many of them fail, students are able to "learn the steps to implement a business" (Kohler, 2013). Furthermore, according to Kohler, by starting their own business, college students can get chances to take responsibilities to serve the clients and meet the deadlines. Also, the communication skills can be greatly improved and the profit from the company can help support the living expenses and tuition of the students. 
In my opinion, I think what Kohler says are really useful. As an attorney and CPA, Kohler had experience of starting his own business before and what he is sharing is what he experienced in the past. Many students always hesitate if they can success to have their own business during the college. However, if they are still hesitating, they will never success. My viewpoint is similar to Kohler; one would never success unless he starts to take actions. Furthermore, the emphasis of entrepreneurship for a college student is not making lots of money, but applies his ideas to the society and gain experiences during entrepreneurship. We would meet lots of problems and challenges when we first start our business, but we are also growing and improving ourselves by solving the problems and beat the challenges. I think the abilities to solve problems are much more important than just solving some calculus problems in the classroom. Because own the skills to analyze the problem and solve it, we are able to solve more potential and unknown problems in the future. We need lots of practice to master this ability, and entrepreneur provides chances for us to practice. Society can teach us many things that we are not able to learn in the classroom. 
However, entrepreneurship is still not the first choice for college students and many of them choose to work for the employers instead of starting their own business. An online career network, After College, surveyed 600 members if they want to start a business in the next few years. The result showed that more than 60 percent of them said "no" for entrepreneur and only 8 percent said they are very interested. According to Gabriel (2013), many students focus more on internships instead of looking for what they really like to do. Moreover, students are tending to be cautious when choosing their life for future, only brave and aggressive students will start their own business. As far as I am concerned, although the startup will bring risk to the students, it can facilitate the students' comprehensive development, which can be regarded as a valuable asset for the whole life. Furthermore, choosing a unsatisfactory job even it has no correlation with the major that the students study in college as a career is a desired result for the young people. We have rights to select our own ways of living. I think it is not bad to be cautious when selecting our future, but you can achieve high only if you dream high and brave enough to do it. 
In my opinion, it makes sense for me that only a small part of college students start their own business. According to Jon Gabriel (2013), a significant factor contributes to the shunning of entrepreneurship among college students is the current welfare system tend to demand the college student to follow the existing rules instead of create the own ways of college students. There is no deny that he welfare system will make people to live and work in a more stable environment. However, I think it only makes sense for the people with a family to support. For a single student, we may have lots of dreams to achieve. Without any hindrance from the family, I think this is the best time for us to pursue our dream. Indeed, internship is a good way to increase experience. Whereas, in line with Gabriel (2013), very few internships is paid internships and it is hard to get a job offer from the company. Instead of working free for others, I think it is better to do something for ourselves. 
In general, I think it is a good idea for college students to start their own business. They can get more experiences and gain more connections when fighting for their own business. I don't think starting one's own business is the only good way for college students. I hope more students with ambitious dreams can be brave enough to fight for what they want. Take the responsibility; don't care too much about success or failure. Just pursue the dream in your heart. 
