Argumentative 
24 Nov. 2015 
Draft 1 
Thesis Statement-Student athletes in colleges already take a lot of advantages from their schools, such as personal trainer, academic tutor, and full tuition, because they would improve life of all college athletes. 
Non athletes can have same benefits as athletes get, and athletes put a lot of efforts to earn benefits. Non student athletes can get those advantages from school. Student athletes spend their a lot of time on sports, so people cannot say that they are actually getting benefits from school. Students athletes did not come to school to make money. People say that student athletes get a lot of benefits from school since they are athletes, but they did not get many of advantages because they put a lot of efforts and time on sports. They are actually spending time to earn the benefits. Even though students athletes are getting quite a bit advantages, non student athletes can also get same advantages as athletes get. Therefore, athletes do not have and get lots of profits from school 
Some people say that athletes do not get many welfares from colleges, but they actually do get academic supports from school. Student athletes are getting a lot of academic support from school to make up their works. Athletes will have to study hard and need some helps from school because they miss out classes a lot of time, and schools try to help them with tutors and professors. Athletes do not have to worry about any missing homework and lectures since colleges cover up for them. Schools are helping athletes to study because they miss out a lot of school works if they have games and travels. Therefore, schools try to help athletes make up their homework and lectures. If athletes do not have school's supports, they would have hard time to graduate. Purdue University offers academic tutor because Purdue wants their athletes to be success, and they also gives a lot of supports for them. Purdue just let athletes miss out classes and quizzes if there are games and practices. However, Purdue make them make up all the works with tutors and their professor, so they can catch up their classes. Athletes get a lot of advantages for being athletes, and they do not need to get paid since they are already getting profits from colleges. They are getting an academic supports and benefits from schools. 
Student athletes are getting financial when they are getting academic supports. College athletes get helps from school to pay off their tuitions. Student athletes are getting a lot of helps for financial work because colleges like to pay and help them to pay their tuitions without having problems. Colleges want to make sure that athletes can pay their tuitions because college athletes cannot work during school week because they have to study and practice for their team. Therefore, colleges usually help them to pay their tuitions for free. Colleges usually pay full tuitions for most of players because they are deserved to get paid that much since they put lots of efforts for sports. Purdue University pays sixty hundred dollars per athletes just for the tuition because Purdue thinks that supporting athlete's financial things is one of the most important jobs for them. Student athletes do not have to work and get student loan because colleges would like to pay for their most of tuition. If they get salaries from school, they have to pay for tax and everything else. Therefore, paying for athletes would not be worth it since they have to deal with money, and they would not have time to do that. In my opinion, student athletes should not be paid, and they should just get paid as tuition, and other things that athletes want. 
Support 3-This is going to be about facility and the other advantages that they get. 
