P5D1 Argument 
4/14/15 
Argument for artificial flavor 
	Artificial flavors are everywhere. Most of the packaged food contain artificial flavors to gain back the loss of taste due to all kinds of food processing. But is it really necessary to add artificial flavors? I think we should find new ways in food processing in order to keep the natural flavor in the food other than adding flavors to the food to gain back the lost. Because using better food processing technique make more enjoyable and natural taste. Also, artificial flavors are bad for our health and our environment. Addition of artificial flavors are not beneficial in long term. 
	Even though people might say artificial flavors give our food so many wonderful taste and it's pretty safe because only very few case in the food safety problem are reasoned by artificial flavors' usage. And the amount of artificial flavors are so small that no one will get sick. But they are just having a one-side view. 
	Artificial flavors are giving us a potential risk in our body and our environment. Artificial flavors are the mixture of chemicals that give us the specific tastes but most of the chemicals that we take in as flavors give us potential risks because our ancestor didn't naturally have them in our diet. Artificial flavor had just been developed within 50 years. According to Schreiber K, most of the artificial sweeteners are harmful for us. They will cause not only obesity like real sugars but will also cause an increasing heart rate and blood pleasure when absorbed by our body. According to a long term study artificial flavors can even gave us potential risk of easily getting cancer. So artificial flavors are surely harming our health no matter how little the amount is. 
Artificial flavors are also harming our environment too. Depending on what chemical is produced, there will be harmful waste produced in this process. For some esters they need fluorine in the producing process. As we know, fluorine is dangerous when release in the air, it will damage the ozone sphere. According to Dr. Xu Q, a professor working in Purdue, the changes made by artificial flavors are serious. The production of artificial flavors just like all kinds of chemical factories are harming our environment, and artificial flavors themselves are slowly changing our diet. We eat more colorful and tastier food than before. But the nutrition of the food were decreasing because the food with less nutrition usually add more artificial flavors to make them taste better. Dr. Xu Q believes that the most serious problems related to the produce and usage of artificial flavor is allergies. Human don't used to be allergic to food like milk and nuts. But the changing in our diet and environment surely changed our body and there are an increasing number of people who get allergic to something. 
We can't just stop using artificial flavors because they are cheap and taste stronger than natural food but artificial flavors are so harmful that we should reduce using them. We need to find new ways to entertain our tough other than artificial flavors. 
Artificial flavors are for gain back the lost on the food processing and make new taste of the food. So why not we keep the original flavors in the food and there's no need to add flavor any more. More and higher technique storage systems had been invented to provide any flavor and nutrition lost. Now, companies are releasing more and more new refrigerator that can reduce the lost due to the storage. New cooking system may also heat the food in a more suitable ways to prevent the flavor from losing. This is more beneficial than just adding artificial flavors because using better storing and cooking system will gave us not only a better taste but also a meal that contain lots of nutrition. Everyone wants there food to be tasty. Instead of harmed by artificial flavors when consuming tasty food, better food processing gives us new ways in eat tasty as well as eat healthy. 
Artificial flavors with its own benefit of stronger taste, easy to produce and stable is now a huge industrial in the food system. But we should limit for artificial flavors because all its dangerous potential risks. Better food process condition is one of the way to let food taste better and healthier without using artificial flavor. No one want to get in to trouble just because eating food. Finding new process to get better taste are more important than just adding artificial flavor. 
