Genetics Plays the Most Important Role in Obesity 
Argumentative essay 
17th April 2015 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
Obesity is a metabolic disease in which adipose tissue comprises a greater than normal proportion of body tissue. There is really no precise definition of when obesity actually begins. Dictionary definitions of "obesity" include descriptions like "the state of being well above one's normal weight" or "an excess of subcutaneous fat in proportion to lean body mass. The obesity epidemic is attributable to dietary and behavioral trends acting on a person's genetic makeup to determine body mass and susceptibility to obesity-related disease. Common forms of obesity have a strong hereditary component, yet genetic pathways that contribute to obesity have not yet been elucidated. Many genetic association studies have been reported, but few have been successfully replicated. New research tools and large studies will lead to an understanding of genes and their interaction to cause obesity, which may help guide successful interventions and treatments. 
Genetics plays the most important role in obesity 
		According to the World Health Organization, the escalating international epidemic of obesity is now the most significant contributor to ill health. More than 30% of US adults are obese, i.e. body mass index (BMI) >30 kg/m2 (Caballero, 2014), and it is feared that one in three children born in the early 21st century will develop diabetes with a consequent reduction in lifetime expectancy. Obesity accounts for 5-7% of national health expenditure in the US and now outranks both smoking and drinking in its deleterious effects on health and health costs (Sturm, 2002). 
		Obesity has always existed in human populations, but until very recently was comparatively rare. It is a complex disease resulting from the interactions of a wide variety of hereditary and environmental factors. Clustering of cases within a family and the discovery of genes associated with obesity are all arguments reinforcing the genetic dimension of obesity. The combined progress in quantitative genetics, genomics and bioinformatics has contributed to a better understanding of the genetic and molecular basis of obesity. 
Body 
Genes influence every aspect of human physiology, development, and adaptation. Obesity is no exception. Yet relatively little is known regarding the specific genes that contribute to obesity and the scale of so-called "genetic environment interactions" the complex interplay between our genetic makeup and our life experiences. 
Obesity results from interactions between environmental and genetic factors. Despite a relatively high heritability of common, non-syndrome obesity, the search for genetic variants contributing to susceptibility has been a challenging task. Genome wide association studies have dramatically changed the pace of detection of common genetic susceptibility variants. To date, more than 40 genetic variants have been associated with obesity and fat distribution. However, since these variants do not fully explain the heritability of obesity, other forms of variation must also be considered. (Wardle et al 2008). 
At an individual level, obesity occurs when abnormal amounts of triglycerides are stored in adipose tissue and released from adipose tissue as free fatty acids with detrimental effects. Excess fat accumulation occurs when energy intake exceeds energy expenditure, although individuals respond differently to this imbalance owing to genetic predisposition. Twin studies estimate heritability of body mass index to be 40-70% in children and adults, and other anthropometric measures of obesity and regional fat distribution like skinfold thickness, waist circumference and waist: hip ratio show similar heritability. Furthermore, there are ethnic differences in obesity; admixture-mapping studies demonstrate that obesity correlates closely with the percentage of ancestry derived from ethnic groups with elevated prevalence. The goal of obesity research is to elucidate pathways and mechanisms that control obesity and to improve prevention, management and therapy (Stunkard A.J et al, 1986) 
Obesity is also a hallmark of several genetic syndromes caused by mutation or chromosomal abnormalities. Epigenetic marks, or "imprinting", affect gene expression without actually changing the DNA sequence. Failures in imprinting are known to cause extreme forms of obesity (e.g. Prader-Willi syndrome), but have also been convincingly associated with susceptibility to obesity. Furthermore, environmental exposures during critical developmental periods can affect the profile of epigenetic marks and result in obesity. (Farooqi S&O'Rahilly S, 2006). 
It is now well established that overweight and the different forms of obesity are conditions tending to concentrate within a family. Obesity risk is two to eight times higher for a person with a family history as opposed to a person with no family history of obesity, and an even higher risk is observed in cases of severe obesity. Heritability of obesity may vary depending on the phenotype studied, however it tends to be higher for phenotypes linked to adipose tissue distribution (40-55%) and for weight or body fat excess (5-40%). Weight gain and adiposity increase with age, an effect also influenced by heredity. (Saunders C.L et al, 2007) 
Obesity has reached epidemic proportions in the United States and developing countries. Although the trend of decreased physical activity and increased caloric intake is probably responsible for the recent rise in obesity, it is important to understand that these trends are playing out on a background of genetic variation in the population. Each individual's genetic background remains an important determinant of susceptibility to obesity. Discovery of the genes involved in the development of common forms of obesity, thereby identifying pathways that are causal in patients, will guide clinicians and scientists in designing more effective therapies and in identifying high-risk individuals for early intervention . It is clear that obesity often tracks in families. Having obese relatives increases one's risk for obesity, even if the family members do not live together or shares the same patterns of exercise and food intake. 
Conclusion 
Here, I have reviewed recent advances in identifying factors contributing to obesity susceptibility such as the successes in identification of genetic variation affecting obesity trait susceptibility. <Name> (2015 February, 28th) one of my interviewees, who just finished his post graduation, said this to me that one of the major cause for obesity can be related to the unit of heredity that has been transferred from ones parents. 
In brief, current knowledge brings to the conclusion that genetic factors may be involved in the etiology of obesity and, exclusive of very rare severe obesity cases, the genes involved are probably genes that interact with environment factors related to energy intake and expenditure to increase the risk of obesity. 
Identification of those genes will help clarify the etiology of obesity and its metabolic consequences, the metabolic complications of obesity, as well as identify at-risk individuals or groups in terms of their genetic profile with the goal of developing personalized prevention and treatment strategies. 
Key words: Genetics, Obesity, heritability, body mass index, factors 
