Basketball Theory and Information 
Purdue University 
Apr. 8 2015 
Article 4 
The article investigate the origin and the validity of common beliefs regarding "the hot hand" and "streak shooting" in the game of basketball.(p.1) Basketball players and fans alike tend to believe that a player's chance of hitting a shot are greater following a hit than following a miss on the previous shot. However, detailed analyses of the shooting records of the Philadelphia 76ers provided no evidence for a positive correlation between the outcomes of successive shots. The same conclusions emerged from free-throw records of the Boston Celtics, and from a controlled shooting experiment with the men and women of Cornell's varsity teams. The outcomes of previous shots influenced Cornell players' predictions but not their performance. The belief in the hot hand and the "detection" of streaks in random sequences is attributed to a general misconception of chance according to which even short random sequences are thought to be highly representative of their generating process. 
Article 5 
Drawing from contemporary goal perspective theories of achievement motivation, this article had as its primary purpose to determine the relationship of perceived motivational climate to intrinsic motivation and attributional beliefs in a sport setting. This study also tested the level to which the dependent variables of interest are a function of situational goal structure, dispositional goal orientations, or both. Subjects, 105 male basketball players from nine varsity high school teams, were requested to complete the four instruments. Results showed that the Perceived Motivational Climate in Sport Questionnaire was comprised of two valid and reliable subscales, the Mastery and Performance Climate scales. Perceptions of a mastery-oriented climate positively related to reported enjoyment and the belief that effort leads to achievement. Perceptions of a performance-oriented climate were associated with the view that superior ability causes success. In general, indices of intrinsic motivation and attributional beliefs were best predicted by dispositional goal orientation. 
Article 6 
This article mainly examines the relationship between trust, leadership, and team performance with two objectives. The first objective is to prove an assumption found in several literatures - that a team's trust in their leader has a significant effect on the team's performance. The second objective is to explore a more complex and dynamic relationship between trust and team performance influenced by trust in leadership adjusts the relationship between past team performance and future team performance. This relationship is derived by combining theories of trust with an attributional theory of leadership. Survey and archival data from a sample of men's college basketball teams provides support both hypotheses indicating that trust in leadership is both a product and determinant of team performance. 
