Affect of smartphones on people: Do they make us smart or dumb? 
Purdue University 
04/10/2015 
"It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity." 
-Albert Einstein 
The above-mentioned words said by Albert Einstein fits today's scenario perfectly. Nowadays, the technology is growing at a faster pace than ever before. Every other day we have a new device hitting the market. One question that arises in everyone's mind is how this advancement in technology affects one's intelligence, does it make people dumber or smarter! 
	My interest in this field comes from the fact that I am majoring in computer science at Purdue University and want to be a software engineer in future. For me the questions - How are smartphones affecting people? Are they making us dumb or smart? - matter a lot. In particular, I want to know how the people are adopting to the ever-growing market of smartphones. In today's world a man and a smartphone hold a very strong relationship. A smartphone is one of those items that are close to a person. Smartphones remember every piece of information for you from a person's mobile number, birthday to driving directions to a place. To paraphrase the late George Carlin, they are the digital equivalent of "the place to put our stuff." 
	Smartphones have become so ingrained in our lives that it is impossible for many of us to spend a single day without them. We all love are smartphones, but we all fear that these digital devices are affecting us negatively. Research shows that our intuition is wrong (Daniel, 2015). The reliance on mobile technology is increasing. According to a research conducted by a firm, smartphones cannot stop us from focusing, but our sense that we cannot may not be a phantom. Smartphones sniff out our desire to think. We have become so used to fast access to any sort of information (thanks to the Internet!) that we do not want to even ponder or think about it for a second. Our 'dependence on smartphones' and 'social networking (Facebook, Twitter, etc.)' when combined makes an irresistible cocktail. A cocktail in which there are incentives for constant participation or sharing of information, as well as incessant information "snacking". 
	The argument I want to make is that, despite of some drawbacks of the smartphone use, smartphones hold a bright future. They mostly affect our lives in a positive manner. They are our key to the futuristic world. According to a research conducted by Pew Research Center, 80 % of those surveyed agreed to the fact that they use the Internet at least once a week to keep up with developments in their profession and 72 % of this information is found using smartphones (Pew Research Center, 2012). Today's technology is highly customizable - smartphones provide us with information the way we want. Moreover, these digital devices boost our memorizing power too. They help free up memory we would normally use for mundane information, so we can use it for other tasks. 
	According to Daniel T. Willingham, a professor of psychology at the University of Virginia, digital devices are not eating our brains, or shortening our attention spans. According to the research mentioned in The New York Times, scientists use "span" to mean two separate things: how much information our mind can retain, and how well we can maintain focus. They measured the former by asking people to repeat long strings of numbers in reverse order. They measured the latter by asking people to look at a visual and monitor occasional and subtle changes. Performance on the tests looked as good as it did 50 years ago. So, we can conclude that smartphones are not responsible for any effects on our focusing power, or it is not smartphones that are shortening our attention spans. 
