P5d1_ae 
March 29, 2016 
Contrast Opinions for Developing a Human Clone 
	Growth of scientific field brought convenience in our lives; however, it also fetched devastation of humanity. Developing a human clone is a one of the most popular issue in scientific field. With its development, we can expect to have benefits like expansion of medical treatment, but we cannot also disregard the disadvantages it will result. Thus, I dissent to develop a human clone. 
	If human clone is developed, confusion in the society will be the first outcome. People will be in social chaos to differentiate clone and its entity. Since clone has exactly same genes with its entity, the security system developed currently such as voice recognition, iris recognition, and even fingerprint recognition cannot ban its clones to pass the security. This can result crimes including larceny, robbery, and larceny. If these crimes happens frequently, people will not only be in confusion, but also be in dread of society. 
	In addition, since clone can be made infinitely, people will try to take organs or body parts out from the clones to sell. This will result an anarchy and ethical problems. Imprudent embryo harvest will eventually cause commercialization of embryo and stem cell. Harris (1998) says that the idea of wrongful use may occur when there are financial needs by exploiting one another with thinking each other as a sex object. If selling embryos gets popular and becomes a profitable business, people will try to exploit not only embryos but also organs and other body parts to make as much profit as possible. Consequently, it is feasible to endanger women who can be pregnant by exploitation to provide embryos 
Moreover, wealthy people could regard people as object that can be reproduced or replaced by clones. Then, emergence of ranks among people based on their wealth would be realized. Like the movie, 'Hunger Game', wealthy people will be able to buy clones and make them to kill each other by calling it as a 'game' or a 'new type of sport'. Cruelty of human will be extreme to cause many other ethical issues. 
Besides, the good treatment after the death of clone is also very hard to find. Even though a clone has its own personality, it is derived from a human, its entity. It is why killing a clone after its duty is a biggest issue to discuss before developing it. We need to respect the human rights, but clone is not in the category of human and the border between human and its clone is quite obscure. Also, there is no current plans to treat the defective clone such as a clone with six legs or three heads, and a clone having fifty years old physical ability but five years sold mental ability. The treatments for its side effects are not prepared yet. Furthermore, if human clone can have their own identity and have negative feelings toward the real human, it is possible to result the collapse of the world and extinction of human as predicted in many scientific movies. 
To sum up, as mentioned above, there are many possible ethical and political problems by developing a human clone such as confusion in society, exploitation of human body, and unplanned rules for faulty clones. Therefore, because developing a human clone have many defects for now, I disagree to develop a human clone. 
Bibliography 
Harris, J. (1998). Clones, genes, and immortality: Ethics and the genetic revolution (pp.43		-65). Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
Harris, J. (1998). Clones, genes, and immortality: Ethics and the genetic revolution (pp.142		-170). Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
1 
