Binding of Games 
	Video games, a newly emerging entertainment, are undergoing a big change. Genre of video games categorizes video games based on their gameplay interaction into different categories, such as shooter games, adventure games, role-playing games and so on. Video games began with a simple form, which only contains strictly one genre. For example, Super Mario Brothers is a really famous platform game that only contains one genre. The game has been sold 40. 24 million copies, and influence many following platform games. However, today's video games do not belong to just a single genre; genres can be mixed together. The most common combination is role playing games(RPG) and first person shooter game(FPS), which forms massively multiplayer online first person shooter(MMOFPS). I firmly believe that multi-genre games are more attractive than single genre games. 
	Shooting games, one of the most popular theme in today's gaming market, are undergoing a fusion with other game genres. In order to make innovation, and differ from other shooting games, game companies learn from other kind of games, such as adding another game genre to a new game. For example, Call of Duty(COD): Advanced Warfare is a newly released shooting game that contains RPG(Role play games) elements. Compared to the original FPS games, like CS and Half Life that do not have any more genres other than FPS itself, COD have a lot of advantages over them. In COD, players can upgrade the equipments of the soldiers(Wiki, 2014). Players experience the refreshment of shooting enemies, meanwhile players also foster their own soldiers. On the other hand, it is also an adventure game(AVG), because it has one chapters after another; players need to finish one mission after another to complete the "achievement"(Shawn, 2014). Divided into several chapters and given more achievement, COD has longer life than those single genre games, because players need to search each corner in the game to find the items, and unlock achievement. The data from the internet does prove the success of COD. From the unofficial statistic, the sales of COD: Advanced Warfare is 3,722,031, which will eventually be bigger than the sale of last year's COD: Ghost(Shawn, 2014). Because COD series continue to develop more and more other genre element into their new game, the sales go upwards almost every year(Shawn, 2014). 
	Minecraft is another game that understands the benefit of multi-genre video games. Minecraft allows players to do anything they want in the world they create, there is no detailed instruction on how to survive in the world or how to play through it. Instead of combining different kinds of genres together, it asks the players themselves to develop them own games. The game lets the game source open to the public so that everyone with some knowledge of computer science is able to edit his or her own new maps or modes Because it is so easy to make a mode, thousands of maps and modes appeared. Minecraft itself is a unique game that does not have a clear genre. However, as more and more people design thousands of maps and mods, Minecraft can cover almost all kinds of games. Because of the openness on game source, the total sale of PC Minecraft is 54 million copies. This sale is unprecedented among all sand box games. 
	Some single genre video games also turn into a multi-genre game recently, for example, Hearthstone. It is a card game produced by Blizzard. When it was first released to the public, it is a typical card game where players play with each other or they can play with the computer. This traditional pattern of Hearthstone still attract a lot of players. For example, I have played this game for a long time. When I first encountered this game, I did spend a lot of time defeating other players and unlock new and powerful cards. Nevertheless, after I played for a while, I started to lose my interest. The same daily task and same strategy used in each match make me fell boring. Then, I was online only once a week and had not interest as much as before. Blizzard saw the problem, so at the last of the summer vocation, they released an adventure version, which means players had a new way to play, defeating different bosses to get new cards. It is a big change of Hearthstone, because it changes from a single genre game to a multi- genre game. Hearthstone actually get benefits from the change, because those old players like me find their interest again in Hearthstone. Because Hearthstone added adventure element into itself, itself can attract both old players and new players again. 
	However, old single genre game is still popular until now, like CS. Too many people in my age consider CS as the father of FPS games. The success of CS can be contributed to its single genre. CS demonstrates the shooting game unprecedentedly with only a few things. For instance, there are only a few guns and none special ability players can use, so it makes new players easier to get used to it. If CS players want to be skillful in CS, they just need to practice how to move the character and how to headshot to the enemy. In my high school, still a lot my friends like to play CS without feeling boring. If a game can make this accomplishment, then it is definitely the best of the best. However, the success of CS can not be copied by other shooting games, because CS is the best of shooting game. If another company copied it, the game would either be the same or have some flaws inevitably. Therefore, in order to have another successful shooting games, game companies have to be unique and creative. New shooting games should combine with other games so that they can be successful. 
	In conclusion, multi-genre games are more interesting than single genre games. Multi-genre games gives their players a game with several different experiences so that the target market will be larger. Some people may like one genre, so they will buy, and play it. Others will like other genres. Besides, the gaming market does not need too many similar games. The success of one game can never be replicated, so it is important for new games to have their own combination on different genres. Although some old school single genre one has achieved a huge success, it was the past. In order to have more and more successful video games, it is essential to mix several genre together. 
Reference 
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare. (2014, November 16). Retrieved November 18, 2014, from 		http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Advanced_Warfare 
Shawn, K. (203, November 23). Call of Duty: Ghosts is the top-selling game on next generation 		consoles. Retrieved November 18, 2014, from http://www.techspot.com/news/54828-		call-of-duty-ghosts-is-the-top-selling-game-on-next-generation-consoles.html 
Farokhmanesh, M. (2014, July 25). Minecraft console sales surpass PC, 'almost 54M' copies sold 	in total. Retrieved November 18, 2014, from http://www.polygon.com/				2014/6/25/5843358/minecraft-console-sales-54m-copies-sold 
