Academic and Social Benefit of Greek Houses 
Purdue University 
April 18, 2015 
	For students who just came into college, meeting one or others might be a natural interest. Greek houses might draw students' interests very much because in Greek houses, a substantial numbers of teenagers live and play together. Just because of the fact that someone wants socializing, choosing to live in the Greek houses is not a very smart and valid idea. However, I argue that there is more than one reason to join Greek houses. As well as socializing, Greek houses can be a good starting place to earn interpersonal abilities and communication skills. Moreover, in contrast of the common recognition of Greek houses, which widely said that they are just ruining students' college life, Greek houses are places where to get academic assists for students. This is because they have special database for students to approach. Therefore, Greek houses are great place for students through various aspects including socializing and develop one's ability regarding communication and lastly get academic help. 
	To begin with, Greek houses are perfect places for students to socialize. When students live together they tend to share their hobbies or interests so that they can become close real quick than others. <Name> who is in charge of all Purdue Greek houses, she met couple of good friends and she keep in touch with them. Moreover, she also mentioned that when students get into Greek houses brotherhood and sisterhood is the number one advantage that they can experience. This is because after students' join Greek houses they have done so many other activities including social volunteers, trips and school parties together so it is reasonable that they will become be come close. Therefore for those students who are interested in making friends and socializing Greek houses are great place to start. 
	Of course, socializing may be not helpful in all instances. People who are on the side of disagree to live in Greek houses, they have concerned that when students gathered together many negative effects will become bigger so that it will eventually transformed to bad influences. Greek houses are only drinking and partying so that it might seen as they have no point but only playing so if they live together it will be a group of meaningless student group, who are not study at all. And frankly speaking, it is true that when young boys or girls being together they become bold and possibly do some crazy things like crimes. However, according to Dr. Murphy, doctor showed that it is not necessarily the Greek students who trigger problems. Not only Greek students but also others who are not join in fraternities and sororities when students consume alcohol their possibilities of cause crimes become higher. In other words, it is not necessarily a Greek-student who makes serious problems (Murphy, 2006). Rather, in Greek houses they have several activities of social volunteer, which are socially appreciated behaviors. To summarize, that Greek students' negative prejudice regarding alcohol consumption and crime rates are not correct. 
	Secondly, Greek houses are great place to get help for academic success. Brittany said that there are database that only available for Greek-students. Like study helpers and mentors so that they can get help from them to achieve their academic success. Moreover, Thompson conducted an experiment, which Greek-students self-efficacy regarding academic aspect is much higher than students who are not in Greek houses (Thompson). In other words, in Greek houses students tend to have higher passion to study so that they have more possibilities to get approach to better study guide. That's exactly what tutor and study group is for. In other words, for some students Greek houses can be a real good study group for their academic achievement. 
	There are substantial amount of people who cast doubt that Greek houses only interrupt students' study and their academic success. This also traced back to the negative recognition of Greek houses. Some people who think Greek houses only care about drinking and playing argue that Greek houses ruin students' study in their college life. However, this turned out to be false. In Purdue University for example, there is minimum GPA to get in each fraternities and sororities. Moreover, the brochure that showed all Greek houses average GPA and required GPA shows that most of the sororities and fraternities have higher grade than non-Greek students. Most Greek houses have their minimum GPA requirement over 3. 0 and this is in general quite high grade for students in college. Therefore, based on the words I said Greek houses are fully helpful enough to get academic advice (Barnes, 2). 
	A last point that I would stress why Greek houses might be a great place to students is that while they are joining in Greek houses, students tend to develop their interpersonal skills and communication skills. Because in Greek houses more than 10 students live together, so students are trying to adapt each other and consider others not only them. Moreover, when there are conflicts with each other they try to solve those in a peaceful and good ways, which will eventually improve their conflict management skills. For Greek-students, sororities and fraternities are their home so they might want to be in peaceful way. Among that process, communication skills between them are highly required so it finally leads to improve their abilities related to interpersonal communication and conflict management skills. 
	To conclude I highly recommend Greek houses for college students for several reasons. Firstly, Greek houses are a great place for socializing, which is related to strong brotherhood and sisterhood. Second of all, it helps students studying. Greek houses can be efficient study guidance for students. Lastly, it will develop students' interpersonal communication skills and conflict management. To consider those advantages I assume that living in Greek houses can be a really good experience in students' college life. 
Thomson, J., Oberle, C., & Lilley, J. (2011). Self-Efficacy and Learning in Sorority and Fraternity Students. Project Muse, 52(6), 749-749. 
Murphy, J., Hoyme, C., Colby, S., & Borsari, B. (2006). Alcohol consumption, alcohol-related problems, and quality of life among college students. Project Muse, 47(1), 110-121. 
Long, L. (2012). Unchallenged, Professed Core Values: Do Undergraduate Fraternity/Sorority Members Actually Benefit in the Areas of Scholarship, Leadership, Service, and Friendship? College Student Affairs Journal, 30(2), 15-30. 
Running head: Living in Greek Houses 
