P5d3 - Argumentative Essay (Final Draft) 
12rd April, 2016 
Classroom Management: Fresh Out of Class 
	Usually classroom management is just related to activities within the class. I have heard people around me saying that anything outside class cannot be related to classroom management. However, the whole world outside the class affects students in various ways. A student's behaviour inside the class would be very similar to what he is outside the class. Classroom management is not just about managing students sitting in a room but also helping them enhance their talent and skills. I strongly disagree with the stereotype that classroom management is only related within the class. Classroom management plays a vital role outside the class also. 
	There are many policies that students follow outside the classroom and these policies affect students' behaviour within the classroom. Course structure and policies are very essential to classroom management. These policies help mould a student's behaviour outside the class which in return helps his in-class behaviour also. Now many people assume that all course structures and policies are automatically linked to being in the class. Surprisingly enough, this is not the case. When there are tasks outside the classroom, it reminds the students of their responsibilities in and out of classroom. For example, in my English class, I have grades which mark me for my activities and time spent on the subject outside the class. Submitting homework on time, meeting teachers during the allotted office hours and similar activities done outside the class, helps students during the class. Since a student takes effort towards his class even when he is not in the class, it increases his interest and help him get an upper hand in the class. Strother (1985) also states that students cannot be just taught in complete isolation without considering the outside environment. Things like school rules and the school climate are given high priority as they help build a stable and education-friendly environment. This environment also ensures a good relation among students and the teachers. Because of a suitable and studious environment, better coordination and understanding is established between the students and the teachers. 
The way a teacher coordinates with her students outside a classroom also plays a huge role in classroom management. According to Strother (1985), teachers can influence students by their own behaviour. If teacher herself is not there in her office hours, does not reply to emails and is hard to contact outside class, students often just drop the problem they are into. This problem then is never considered by students and may result in more doubts and confusion about the topic. Students gradually lose focus in class also. Similarly, Dr Blanchard (K. Blanchard, personal communication, March 2, 2016) told me the importance of being punctual as a teacher. She made sure she was in office if any student came in. She also made sure to reply to every mail she received from her student and had the doubt clear. If a teacher maintains a friendly attitude outside the class also, students are more open towards asking questions frankly and without being afraid of the teacher. They tend to understand each other much better and tend to have better discussions during the class. This helps them communicate better and develop a good relationship between a teacher and a student which can be extremely useful for the student. 
	Communicating is a great way to build relation between students and teachers outside the classroom which helps students enormously during the classes. This communication is easy because of the student-teacher relationship. Students can often decide and meet with teachers outside the classroom to discuss any type of difficulty they face during or after class. Discussing the topic outside the class can help students understand the topic better or help them understand something they missed during the class. When I met <Name> for the interview, I myself saw so many students who came with their doubts and problems to her. Communicating is actually a great way which allow students and teachers to meet and strengthen their relation. Even when students are stressed or have exams lined up, talking to their teachers can help them relax and work on the problems instead on just crying over it. For example, in my English class, if we are facing any difficulty or have some other exams due to which we are not able to submit our assignments, our teacher extends the deadline which helps us in ways indescribable. Therefore, teachers can help students even when they least expect it and not only in classrooms. 
	Classroom management is vital outside the class. People just need to start noticing it and see it in action outside the class. All the activities a student is expected to perform outside the class is apparently part of classroom management. Homework and other activities outside the classroom can be listed separately in course structure so students notice it as a part of classroom management but outside the class. We can focus on classroom management outside the class and that itself would break the stereotype. 
