Draft# 2 
April 19, 2016 
Taking non major-related jobs is possible for graduates 
	Many graduate students are confused about their future career, because they don't know which option is better between taking major related jobs and non-major related jobs. Some people consider that students could only take the major related jobs, so that they won't waste their four years' effort in college. But actually, only 27% percent of student are taking the major related jobs (Plumer, 2013). The reason why the majority of the students having the non-major relating job are that these jobs have low requirements for them. Students could also expand their horizons of life experience, and there would be less competition for the non-major related jobs. 
	Some of college students may plan to take part time jobs in their spare time, but haven't graduated, so the non-major related part time jobs become their first option. In a survey done by Huang (2012), many responders wrote the reasons why they choose non-major related jobs. The most common answer was the requirement of non-major jobs were lower the major related ones. Huang conclude that most of the responder are full time college students, which don't have enough degree for applying high salary jobs. However, those non-major related jobs such as part time jobs or blue collar works, are more common because of low requirements. Even though students get bored about their current jobs, they could quit them anytime they want and find new one. 
	Taking non-major related jobs could offer students new things and views that they've never experienced before. The job hopping rate is high in the U.S, according to Althen (2011), in average, Americans would take 13 to 15 different jobs before age of thirty-eight. From those data, it could conclude that the most Americans are willing to try new things. And this was also confirmed by my interview subject. Scott Vana is a current students' advisor at Purdue. In the interview, he said that he had engaged at least ten different jobs, and most of the jobs were totally different from others (V. Scott, personal communication, March, 12, 2016). After he graduated from finance major, he was confused about his future path, he didn't know what to do at that time. At first, he took some jobs at a restaurant. He also used to be a restaurant manager. "that was an easy job," said Scott, "I didn't expect that I did the jobs which was unrelated to my major, but that job wasn't hard." Soon, he moved to a new place and got married, and this time he worked as a finance teacher in community college. Scott said, "This was the only work I had done that related to my majors." What he felt from all these different jobs was not only the skills to deal with problems during working time, but also the skill to deal with relations between colleague. He said when he took the different jobs, he considered them as challenges, and he would try his best to do it, whether they were related to his major	 
	 For recent college graduate students, finding appropriate and high-in come jobs is hard for them because of lack of experiences and skills, which cause very high rate of unemployment among college graduated students. In Abel's research (2014), the unemployment rate goes up to 50% in 2012 and the rate of unemployment declined with the growth of students' ages. In Abel another research charts, the unemployment rate was low in the jobs like business, communications where bachelors' degrees in that major are not required (2014). So Abel conclude that even though the unemployment rate was high, students could still make a live. Taking jobs in business or some other fields, that don't require specific skills, might be students' best option. 
	But taking non-major related jobs may also have some drawbacks. On one hand, people may think that their four years' effort in college are wasted. On the other hand, taking jobs in new fields could be a challenge for students. If they don't pay attention or working hard on their position, they would be fired soon. Even though there are many challenges and troubles on taking non-major related jobs, students could still overcome them. For example, when Scott taking the new jobs, he usually focuses on the instructors' words and takes notes for the important points of the jobs. With the enough preparation, he definitely will do better than others. 
	In conclusion, I prefer taking the non-major related jobs than taking major related jobs. We shouldn't be bounded by one place and life is short. So we should try new things and see new views. By meeting different people and visiting new places, which could enrich our mental world. And it is not hard to start taking non-major related jobs, as long as we are willing to spend enough time on working. So taking non-major related jobs has more benefits than taking major related jobs. 
Reference 
Althen, G. (2011) American ways Intercultural press, (226-227) 
Abel. R. J, (2014). Are Recent College Graduates Finding Good Jobs? Federal Reserve Bank Of New York, Current Issues in Economic and Finance, 20(1) 
Casselman, B. (2015). Enough Already About The Job-Hopping Mikkennials. Five Thirty Eight. Retrieved April 20, 2016, from http://fivethirtyeight.com/datalab/enough-already-about-the-job-hopping-millennials/ 
Huang, Y. (2007). Relatedness between jobs and academic majors: Its relationship to academic involvement of college students. International Journal for Educational and Vocational Guidance, 7(2), 111-122. 
Plumer. B, (2013). Only 17 percent of college grads have job related to their major. The Washington Post, Retrieved April 20, 2016, from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2013/05/20/only-27-percent-of-college-grads-have-a-job-related-to-their-major/ 
Robst. J, (2006). Education and Job match: The relatedness of college major and work. Science Direct, Economic of Education Review. 26, 397-407 
