		Technology Improves Teaching and Learning 
Heidi-Hayes Jacobs, the president of Curriculum Designers, said, "Teachers need to integrate technology seamlessly into the curriculum instead of viewing it as an add-on, an afterthought, or an event." I think it is true because as we all know, technology is developing rapidly these years and applied to process of learning a lot. We have Blackboard in universities, we have Coursera to learn through Internet, and we can use i Pad or smartphone to learn almost everywhere at any time. Some people think that the electronics are not good for studying for students because some of the students are addicted to the video games. I don't think so because using the electronics for study properly help students a lot. For example, students tend to understand contents of courses better and teachers have higher efficiency when they use appropriate kind of technologies. From my personal experience, the view of an interviewee and opinions from some research papers, I conclude that using technology have the good impacts on the process of learning. 
From my own experience, using technology when studying improve my learning efficiency. 
Use i Pad when learning: looking at the schedule, manage notes and books 
More efficiency, and more convenient than the traditional paper notes and books 
Stuff can be reuse because of technology, and knowledge are well-organized in my device and also in my mind 
From interviewee, Educators make effort on integrating technology into classroom because the huge potential of the new technologies. 
Integrating technology into language learning: teachers are forced to use technologies; students that are motivated by technologies or use a lot of electronics out of classroom will have a much better learning experience when using technologies in the classroom 
Training teacher is time-consuming, but the outcome will be good. Make workshops to help teacher and students get used to new technologies, and use the technologies to get to their own goal 
From research papers, there are various opportunities to apply technology to the classroom. New technologies help both teachers and students in the learning process. 
Various models to apply technology, and different kind of technologies can be used in the education for different purpose. Technology not only can solve the learning problems, but also can improve the efficiency when meet social problems. 
Using i Pad in the classroom can make student understand the textbook better. The multi-media devices can impress students by different means. Most of teachers are also optimistic, and educators think new technology will lead the education field. 
