Positive Effects of Games and Their Applications on Education 
Purdue University 
	It is claimed that playing computer/video games is bad for people and especially the youth. Students who play computer/video games a lot generally have worse grades than those who do not. However, I believe it is a biased idea that computer/video games are only bad for young people and is not beneficial for them. Computer/video games can actually train people as well as traditional games can. Originally starting with a debate among psychologists, people have taken a closer look at the positive effects of computer/video games, and with knowing the negative effects, especially those caused by violent contents in video games, numerous studies have been conducted in order to maximize the positive effects of games, apply game elements in other fields such as education and health, and limit games' negative effects. This paper examines Bowen's opinions as well as Granic et al.'s research against other research showing computer/video games are overall bad for young people, and conducts Dolan et al.'s idea about how to make use of games in education. 
Important research shows video games, including violent shooter games, may boost young people's learning, health, and social skills (Bowen, L 2014). That research particularly compared role-playing games and other types of video games like puzzles (for example, Tetris). After a long-term study, it was reported that the more strategic video games played, the better improved in problem-solving and school grades the following year. Similar results can also be found in Granic et al.'s research report. Granic et al.'s research shows a result that playing shooter video games (often known as action games and are violent) particularly promotes a wide range of cognitive skills. The result was that the participants who were assigned to play shooter games has shown faster and more accurate attention allocation. This means shooter game players allocate their attentional resources more efficiently and filter out irrelevant information more effectively (Lobel, A. 2014). All these help with people's problem solving ability and student's learning ability, and this is in accord with Bowen's thought, and as well as a strong refutation to the beliefs that playing video games is sedating. People may think playing computer/video games will take much time from students preventing them from focusing on study. However, I agree with the previous researchers' opinions that playing more complex games (strategy games) can permanently improve people's problem-solving and logical thinking skills, which will essentially help their grades. In addition, role-playing games can also improve people's communication. Cummings, Butler, and Kraut (2002) has suggested that face-to-face interaction is more effective than computer-mediated communication (CMC), for example reading emails, but his research only considered simple CMC. For the invalids who are not able to go outside, playing online video games provides them a good opportunity to communicate with people other than their doctors. 
Some people may still be concerned about the violent content in video games, especially the shooter games I have previously mentioned. Lots of research also shows that video games with violent content are linked to more aggressive behaviors in teens. This is because of violent acts are commonly contained in video games. (Norcia, A. 2014) However, the truth is that video games do not only contain violent contents. Apart from the violent video games, there are also games like "Angry Birds" that are funny and can improve player's mood because they are easy to play (Bowen, L. 2014). It has further been suggested that some of the most intense positive emotional experiences are triggered in the context of playing video games. (Mc Gonigal, 2011). "If playing video games simply makes people happier, this seems to be a fundamental emotional benefit to consider," said Granic. That is why I am not concerned about the violence in video games. 
Games can actually be used in education as well. As I previously mentioned, many people, especially parents, don't like video games because they think the more people play, the worse their grades are. Dolan et al.'s report has claimed that games can be used in education, and suggested some key terms about how to use digital games elements in education. This includes building on sound learning principles, providing more engagement etc. Digital games are not opposed to any other learning innovation, but the combination of motivation, engagement, simulation, and data collection, of which cannot be achieved at scale by any other ways. In addition, as a college student, I agree with the opinion that young people prefer to study actively than passively (Dolan P.R. 2012). I prefer to learn things by playing a video game or in class activities rather than watching videos, online modules, or sitting and listening. It is actually also considered more effective for students to study actively. Fortunately, more and more people have realized that games can actually be applied to education and used in motivation of students. 
In order to grasp a complete understanding of the positive and negative effects of playing computer/video games'. It is necessary to conduct studies on what types of video games are beneficial for young people and which are not as good. Different than simply considering games bad, it is necessary to understand the advantages that playing games have provided to game players. In addition, people should no longer claim that games are opposed to learning and start to apply gaming elements to education. 
Reference 
Bowen, L. (2014). Video game play may provide learning, health, and social benefits. Upfront, Feb 2014, Vol 45, No.2, Page 10. 
Dolan, P.R, Frey, P.M., Mc Clarty, K., Mc Vay, A., & Orr, A. (2012). A Literature 			Review of Gaming in Education. Pearson. 
Granic, I., Lobel, A., & Engels, R. (2014). The Benefits of Playing Video Games. 			American Psychologist, Jan 2014, Vol 69, No. 1, 66-78 
Mc Gonigal, J. (2011). Reality is broken: Why games make us better and how they can 		change the world. New York, NY: Penguin Press 
Norcia, A. (2014). The impact of video games. Retrieved on April 15, 2015. 				http://www.pamf.org/parenting-teens/general/media-web/videogames.html 
3 
POSITIVE EFFECTS OF GAMES 
1 
Running head: POSITVE EFFECTS OF GAMES 
