Argument There has been much debate recently about the fairness of the Gao Kao test versus the SAT test. It is well known that opinions are divided on the questions. According to Zhang (2010), A majority of people think that the Gaokao test is a good choice. In their view there are 2 reasons why some people believe the Gaokao test is superior. First, taking the Gao Kao test can help students study at famous universities. Second, It is more fair for students to take the Gaokao test because they think the value of the Gaokao test is more important than the Sat test. Next ,They hold the idea that took the SAT test is not fairness for students. In their opinions of views, students need to read lot of English article and study the SAT rules. 
In my opinion, The Sat test is more fair than the Gao Kao test. According to Tian (2005), It is beneficial for students to take a long time on every of section to break after working. It is advantageous for competent students,But it is disadvantageous for low ability students to get a higher score. Students can take a break 15 minutes after finishing each section. But on the GAOKAO test after you finish a 2 hours exam you can relax a short time. Students need to take a break because they need to refresh their mind. Students also have many chances to take the Sat test. It is favorable for students to select time to take the Sat test. They also can take the Sat test many times. But if students take the Gao Kao test, they will have one chance to take the test , which is not fair. I had a friend who got a cold that could not attend the Sat test. It did not influence her final scores. She could select her preferable location to take the next test. Students could choose different time and different country to attend the Sat test. It gives more variable time to arrange time schedule. 
The Chinese time magazine, According to Wang (2013), surveyed 55 percent of students gave up the Gao Kao test to take the SAT test, because they think the Sat test is more fair than the Gao Kao test. In China education resources are not has the same level of educational background. It is unfair for students to take the Gao Kao test because different provinces have different educational backgrounds. The GAOKAO test is not easy to compare because people use different levels to measure different provinces' educational background that results in students having different score scales. They have different levels of education. Take Hainan province and Shenzhen city for example. The Shenzhen test is easier than The Hainan test to get higher scores. Because Shenzhen city developed economically faster than the Hainan province, The Shenzhen universities have more advanced equipment and the academic professors. Students have more opportunities to study high quality education. The Shenzhen students take easier The Gao Kao test paper because they have high-level educational backgrounds. This is significantly different from the SAT test because the SAT test has the same educational background and students study the same level curriculum. The Gao Kao test level depends on students' location. The big cities have better education than small cities. 
The SAT tests focuses on students' comprehensive ability . It includes writing, mathematics and critical reading. Students need to read a lot of academic reading and practice writing grammar. Students can improve their reading skill and help them to broaden their horizon. 
The Chinese government can make the test fairer. But it is difficult to measure the math and science test. If you study in a famous high school, you have more opportunities to go to a famous university. Maybe excellent students are good at a subject such as mathematics, environmental science or history. They have gotten an international award that would help them get the extra credits. They are excellent students and their subjects are very outstanding, teachers gave them some extra rewards. The extra credits will help those students more easily get a higher score. some students parents work for government also could help those students get extra credit. 
To conclude I think the SAT test is more fair than the Gao Kao test. Students have freedom time to prepare the test and select favorable time to take test. Students improve English language and their critical thinking .it requires students' comprehensive ability. Students the highest scores apply the university. They can take the Sat test many times. 
