Argumentative Essay 
[Thesis Statement]	 
	Although the use of Big Data causes many privacy issues, Big Data is still worth being used and developed instead of being resisted. 
[Opposition Paragraph] 
Considering the news and articles about bad issues triggered by Big Data, it is understandable that many people do not accept the use of Big Data. An amount of people, interviewed by a CNN journalist, argued that the websites with use of Big Data keep collecting the private data from them behind the screen, which they do not want to share. There is also a fact that more and more people start to use software that help them prevent their data being collected. Also, some people debated about the privacy terms from organizations and companies. They said that some term is too long to read and often unreasonable while the service the company or organization provides is essential for them. Another major opinion against Big Data is about the bad use of Big Data. It is true that Big Data is sometimes used in bad ways and produces bad results. For instance, advertising companies once determined the content of their advertisement simply depending on the first name of the advertisement's recipient, which might potentially cause terrible effects. 
[Support 1] 
	A major point against Big Data is the privacy issue caused by Big Data. Many people complained that Big Data invades their personal things without being restricted. Also, many people think that Big Data illegally discloses their private issues without their consent. But what can be considered as personal things or private issues? What is the definition of privacy? In different areas and cases, law defines privacy in various ways. Sometimes what people think is privacy is actually not and the private information organizations get is in fact provided by people themselves. The truth is that only a small part of what people may consider as private data is really considered as private data. What people may not want to share is often not private legally and when people provide information by themselves as well as click the READ button at the end of the privacy terms, it is legally considered that they admit the potential analysis or disclosure of the information. In fact, it is users that do not care about their rights concerning their data. Consider the coupon or discount policies in the area of retailers. If you find a discount policy attractive and therefore spend a lot money buying goods, you may finally realize that the seemingly good discount policy makes you spend more money than you expect and you may think that you are fooled by the company. However, you will never argue that such discount should not exist because you admit that it is your carelessness that cause the problem. It is same for a lot of issues seemingly caused by Big Data. The actual reason is often users' carelessness instead of Big Data. 
[Support 2] 
	It is true that some privacy terms, from some companies and organizations, are not easy for ordinary people to read. In fact, there are an amount of privacy terms that are too long as well as unreasonable but it doesn't mean that none of privacy terms is good. The mobile application, Snapchat, holds a good example of functional privacy term. The privacy term of Snapchat is not too long, and expresses the meaning clearly as well as provides users' choices from total disclosure to total privacy. The point is that yet a lot companies hold irrational privacy terms, due to the fact that their goals of providing privacy terms are not informing the users but protecting themselves, good privacy terms is coming in a gradual way. More and more people and organizations start to work on the development of privacy terms as well as computer scientists are discussing about the definition of a good and functional privacy term these days. In addition, some laws about Big Data are truly effective, like FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act), which also restrict the power of those companies. In general, Big Data and related things are still being developed and are producing more and more benefits, so we should not totally go against Big Data because of the temporary bad effects. What we should do is to find ways to reduce the bad effect. 
[Support 3] 
- Bad use of Big Data: Data aggregation. 
- Ways that prevent harmful aggregation. 
