P5D3 
04.24. 2015 
Pay attention, culture shock is coming! 
	Culture shock is a disorientation people may suffer when they shift to a new circumstance. Some people believe that although this phenomenon do have some negative impacts, it will disappear when time passing, so there's no need for us to pay attention to it. However, I believe that it is necessary for us to gain more knowledge about issue. My suggestion to cope with this phenomenon is that people should know more about it before going to a new circumstance. 
	My first reason is that cultural disparities are everywhere. Just like Professor Thomas claims in "The Culture Shock phenomenon-Symptoms, 'Cures' and Implications"1, "the boundaries of cultural differences will always exist". The best example is the differences between the East and West. When I had my first breakfast in the United States, I asked my American leader "where can I got the hot water?" He was totally shocked and could not understand why I was asking for hot water. So I explained to him that in China, people usually drink hot water or hot milk in the morning. Even the different places in one country may have differences. For example, in China, people who come from northern cities will give you a hug when they meet each other, but people who come from southern cities might just shake hands with you. Because regional disparities are everywhere, people who want to have a long-distance trip will almost certainly meet some problems during such cultural transition. Thus we can say that everyone might suffer culture shock and it is really necessary and important to make people gain more knowledge about it. 
Another reason is that nowadays more and more people are facing serious cross-cultural issues. Due to the development of transportation, people have more opportunities to contact with various conditions. For example, according to the Chinese Ministry of Education2, the number of Chinese students who studied abroad increased by 17.7% from 2011 to 2012. As a result, culture shock becomes a common and serious phenomenon everyone may experience. So there's more possibility that people may go to a new circumstance, thus it is almost inevitable that those people will suffer from this phenomenon that makes it a global issue and need people to know more about it. 
	I believe that knowing culture shock is crucial also because it will bring sufferers really negative and long-term impacts. When I interviewed Professor <name> , she said that people who experience cultural transition feel homesick, anxious, helpless or even angry in the new circumstance, but such feelings are usually caused by this phenomenon. In Professor Xia's paper, "Analysis of Impact of Culture Shock on Individual Psychology3", he states that the negative impacts of this phenomenon often includes a large and diverse set of symptoms, and almost everyone will experience some parts, especially feelings like depression, anxiety and feelings of helplessness. However, for some people, like low-spirited people or foreigners that come from totally different cultural backgrounds, they might experience all the serious symptoms. Such people will feel more depressed during transition and it will be harder for them to cope with the psychological problems. Professor Xia also warned that if depression, anxiety and feelings of helplessness accumulate, the degree and extent of psychological disorientation might be deeper and deeper and thus cause the worst condition, suicide. Moreover, even if those optimistic people can cope with culture shock gradually, there will be some long-term sequela. For instance, they might lose the motivation for adapting to the new condition, thus refuse to go to other circumstances and they might feel afraid to communicate with foreigners. So in order to help people cope with this phenomenon quickly and without any sequela, we should lay more emphasis on it and gain more knowledge. 
	However, some people state that there's no need to know anything about culture shock. They claim that due to globalization, the world becomes smaller and smaller. But I believe that know more about this phenomenon is still necessary. Although the world is smaller nowadays, people can still find new things when travelling around the world. The differences between various civilizations may be less when time passing, but they will never disappear, which means that the issues in cultural shift will never disappear. So the knowledge about culture shock is still necessary and important. 
Culture shock becomes a common and frequently issue nowadays. Since the cultural diversity will remain there and people are getting touch with different civilizations frequently, this phenomenon becomes common issue. What's more, this common issue will bring us long-term and negative impacts. So I believe that we need to gain more knowledge about culture shock. 
1 http://www.educ.utas.edu.au/users/tle/journal/articles/Thomas/Thomas.html 
2 http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2013-06/07/content_16580626.htm 
3 http://www.ccsenet.org/journal/index.php/ijps/article/view/4510/3841 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
