There are many things that people value in life, such as happiness, wealth, reputation and knowledge. People spend numerous time and efforts to achieve what they think important in life. Then how important does happiness really weigh? Is happiness more important than a high salary job or equally important? Many people fall into such consideration after a tired working day and want to figure out a balance between happiness and money. My thesis statement is being happy with work is more important than having a high salary job. I have found three related articles and interviewed an expert on this issue to support my opinion. 
There are always voices arguing that having a high salary job is more important than being happy with work because money can help you to have a better life. These people believe that money is almighty and can satisfy all purposes. They insist that people will feel happy as long as people own the almighty trump-money, which can be used to buy whatever they want, including happiness. So people should put having a salary job as priority and once they achieve that goal, nothing needs to be worried about. I don't really agree with their opinion on this issue. I believe happiness is more important than money and money can't buy people happiness. Happiness is not a good that can't be exchanged. I don't even think happiness could be measured, so money is not necessarily related with happiness. I interviewed <name> , who has lots of knowledge and thoughts about life philosophy, last month and asked his opinion. <name> said, "happiness is more important than money and dissatisfaction with your job could even take over your life". <name> pointed out an interesting circle: many people work hard for money in exchange for a better work environment. However, most of them end up with spending their high salary on expensive medical treatments resulting from high work stress and intensive workload. They don't feel happy simply because they don't enjoy their job and the work stress ruin their health. As they work harder, their health gets worse. The cycle goes on. 
In addition to the interview with <name> , I have found three articles, which have the same life philosophy as I do. The first is an interview report between Alan and Barry. Barry thinks happiness can help people live longer and healthier. Barry defines happiness as a sense of comfort, peacefulness, centeredness or solidity inside everyone's heart. He said that if people are not comfortable with themselves, they would be less likely to come up with productive ideas. Even people work hard and sacrifice a lot for their job, they can't be as efficient as people who enjoy what they do. Barry used an example happened in his family to explain the importance of happiness. His son was diagnosed hopeless paralysis. However, Barry didn't give up his son and kept positive in medical therapy. Barry advises people not to be realistic in the way that society demands, but to be unrealistic. If Barry treated their son in a realistic way, it is not possible that their son is going to recover from the disease that quickly. Therefore, Barry repeated that happiness is a choice, and misery is optional, not inevitable. 
The second article is written by Buzhid. Working hard and earning a decent wage surely means you have more chances of financial success. But it doesn't necessarily bring you happiness at work. Buzhid said, "Having a well-paid job brings rich physical payoff, but it doesn't really bring a happy life. Being happy at work is something more important, since happiness brings you passion toward what you are doing". Buzhid used her personal work experience as an example. Her previous job as a sales manager really has high payoff, and these well-meaning adults were so proud of her when she got promoted into the managerial level. Buzhid emphasized that reality was opposite in fact. The huge workload made her stressed and unhappy. And she didn't actually have the successful lifestyle while being outside of job. The author was even diagnosed with depression. Buzhid said, "if people feel imprisoned by the large workload of daily tasks, how could people have time to enjoy happy time with families". Therefore, we need to figure out what our passion is and follow that passion. 
The third article analyzed the negative impact of stress on employee from productivity side. Imtiaz and Ahmad said, "Stress is something natural and always comes with life for every person. Since stress has an impact on people's life, especially people's productivity and performance while working, stress management issues are being critically analyzed in modern society". Stress usually contributes to lower performance of employee because of dissatisfaction and high turnover ratio. Statistical data shows that stress, whether originating from personal life or from organization, lowers employee performance. Imtiaz and Ahmad pointed out there is always stress and people can't get rid of stress entirely. Choosing a job people have passion at and feel happy is an effective way to manage and minimize stress. Therefore, happiness affects the effectiveness that people manage stress, which in turn decides work productivity. 
In conclusion, after analyzing the interview report with <name> and these three articles, I believe my these statement, which is being happy with work is more important than having a high salary job, is right. 
