ENGL 106i 
P5d3_arp 
April 27th, 2016 
Ecological approach: Best of both races 
The ever changing racial demographic due to globalization has spotlighted a new racial group that has long been ignored; the mixed-race individuals. They have endured many obstacles to be recognized just like other homogeneous races; one in particular is the one-drop rule that has been implemented in the USA. The mixed-race individual will be automatically considers as African-American if he has the slightest drop of Sub-Saharan African blood in his veins; thus, led him to socioeconomic disadvantages and discrimination (Rockquemore, Brunsma & Delgado, 2009). This exemplified the societal effort in categorizing the mixed-race racial identity, while ignoring the effects it had on the mixed-race individuals. Ever since then, sociologists have been theorizing the formation of mixed-race individuals' racial identity, and the most current theory is the ecological approach (Rockquemore et al.,2009). This approach emphasized the autonomy of the individuals to represent their racial identity depending on the situation they are in (Rockquemore et al.,2009). Upon reflecting the ecological approach with the previous theories such as the parental approach, it seems that the ecological approach has more promising future as a racial identity conflict resolution than others. 
By using the ecological approach, the mixed-race individuals are free to work to their advantages in navigating through the globalization world. When Choundhry and Kershen (2012) presented the concept of Chameleon identity as a representation of the ecological approach, they indirectly showcased the importance of fitting into the idealized version of the dominant racial group. As a result, the mixed-race individuals have the chance to compete for the same socioeconomic benefits as the homogenous (domain) race individuals (Choundhry & Kershen, 2012). For example, Jose' Gomez, a mixed Mexican-White Caucasian, could put his name as Joe in his resume and speaks in English during the interview as part of his strategies in representing the idealized version of an American (Choundhry & Kershen,2012). However, Choundhry and Kershen (2012) did warn the individuals to have sufficient knowledge on the race in order to integrate successfully into the group. An example of this is Daniel Henney, a Korean-American actor who failed to maintain his fame in the South Korean entertainment industry due to language barrier (Ahn, 2015). In conclusion, the ecological approach could be a tool of success for the mixed-race individuals. 
The ecological approach can also serve as an escape from the social discrimination for the mixed-race individuals. More often, the mixed-race individuals will be attributed with the minority race identity, for example the one-drop rule, and this led to stigmatisms and discrimination (Rockquemore et al.,2009). Fortunately, with the ecological approach, the individuals have the opportunity to escape this social tragedy (Rockquemore et al.,2009). For example, a mixed White Caucasian- Middle Eastern individual could choose to be identified as White Caucasian racial identity rather than the Middle Eastern because he feels threaten of the rising Islamophobia around the world. The ecological approach provided the option for the individuals to exit a particular racial group in order to escape stereotype and prejudice (Rockquemore et al.,2009). Though the ecological approach seems as a great plan, these individuals still unable to escape the social desirability biasness, especially the societal perceived attractiveness that is based on the lightness of their skin color (Basu, 2015). Furthermore, these individuals were perceived as exotic due to their racial ambiguity (Basu, 2015; Taylor,2014 ). For examples, the South Korean media were obsessed with Daniel Henney due to his embodiment of upper-class white population, while the online dating community tend to choose mixed-race individuals because they are recognized as being more attractive than others (Ahn,2015; Basu,2015). Regardless of this, the ability to break free from the social discrimination is useful for the mixed-race individuals, particularly with the current state of the world. 
Asides from the ecological approach, the parental approach also has the promises as a conflict resolution for the mixed-race children's racial identity. In an interview, Dr. Watkins described the parents' important role in assisting the mixed-race children's racial identity; she even acknowledged her parents' efforts in instilling positive racial identity within her, so that she could grow up proud of her racial identity and be tolerant of other races (personal communication, March 3rd, 2016). Similar relationship was portrayed in a study on parental socialization for the minority's children by Peck et al. (2014), whereby the parental racial socialization served as a platform for the parents to communicate belief, values and norms to the children. Unfortunately, high racial discrepancies between parents and mixed-race children could undermine the parental approach's efforts whenever the parents refused to accept the Western ideology of gender roles; thus, the children were exposed to psychological maladjustment such as depression (Ansary, Scorpio and Catanzariti,2013). Although Peck et al. (2014) presented the positive outcome of parental socialization on the children's racial identity development, Ansary et al. (2013) argued that there is substantial chance of jeopardize to the mixed-race children if the parents have high racial discrepancies with the children. Therefore, the ecological approach still deem as more promising than parental guidance approach as conflict resolution for the mixed-race individuals. 
In conclusion, the ecological approach is more favorable to be selected as the conflict resolution for the mixed-race individuals' racial identity compared to other approaches such as the parental approach. The ecological approach allows the individuals to achieve the advantages of globalized world by maintaining the idealized version of the dominant group, as well as an option to exit group when the social discrimination problems arises such as stereotypes and prejudices. Although the effectiveness of ecological approach needs further research, it has been a long way since the society opened-up to the mixed-race individuals; the progress is still underway and it will take time for them to fully accustom to this changes (Taylor, 2014). All in all, the ecological approach could be the answer for the mixed-race individuals in demolishing the barriers that they have had faced before and being seen as equal as the homogeneous race in the eyes of the world. 
