The Teenagers Should Be Given Chances to Make Their Own Decisions with Proper Guidances 
05/01/2015 
It is always difficult for parents when the time comes to decide the proper time to let teenagers make their own decisions. The conflict happens between parents and teenagers for deciding the proper time because of their different perspectives. Parents think that their teenagers are too young to be independent while the teenagers think they are old enough to make major decisions. I believe even though teenagers might make some mistakes in making decisions, parents should set up a positive relationship with proper guidance along with them with their teenagers and let them make their own decisions as they enter middle school. Moreover, it is better to have their teenagers make minor decisions, such as what to wear for a day, and then move onto major decisions as they feel comfortable with them. 
The main reason why parents are hesitating to have their children take the responsibility for their decision-making because they are worried. The main reasons that the parents are delaying the proper time to let their teens make their own decision is that they are still too young and reckless. They are saying that the teenagers are not yet mature enough, which might cause serious consequences, such as underage drinking, running away from home, or even unwanted pregnancy. Despite the parents' worries, however, the teenagers should be given the chance to make their own decision as soon as possible because the more the parents postpone to let them make their own decisions, the worse the parent-teen relationship might get. Although the parent-teen relationship slightly changes as the kids enter the adolescence and they want to get independent, the parents are still the most influential factor in their lives. Therefore, the teenagers want to prove that they are not just kids anymore; they want to earn the trust from their parents. However, when the teenagers get denied for their decisions from their parents, they might take this as their "parent(s) do not trust him or her to make his or her own decisions" (Apter, 2009). When they get denied from their parents, the quarrel between them and their parents gets worse because the denial implies that the parents, who should always be supporting and giving trust, didn't give the trust they want. 
Trust directly relates to the teenagers' self-esteem as well. According to the interview with Nicole Iannone, a teenager who has a positive relationship with his or her parents displays higher confidence in decision-making than others who do not have a positive relationship. This positive relationship between parents and teenagers is called "secure attachment". However, when this secure attachment is not set up in parent-teen relationship, the teenagers display low self-esteem which further relates to the problems establishing autonomy and closeness in relationships with others (Nauert, n.d.). Therefore, the parents should be aware of the slight change in their relationship with their children and try to give the trust the teenagers want. 
Peer pressure plays another part in the teenagers' desire for decision-making besides earning trust from their parents since it leads the teenagers'. Children encounter so many people from different backgrounds with different values as they enter middle school, who greatly influence them in many aspects, especially decision-making. They experience this during elementary school as well, but at that time they do not have their values set up yet to make proper decisions and this unorganized values make them confused as they face others with totally different thoughts. As their friendship is getting deeper and more complex, it affects them in many aspects, including making decisions. Guzman (2007) mentions that although the negative peer influence is over emphasized, more can be done to help teenagers experience the family and the peer group as mutually constructive environments". She also mentioned that "peer friendships can be a safe place for youth to explore their identity, learn about social norms, and practice their autonomy" (2007). Peer pressure might display negative aspects to the parents in the first place. However, when the parents consider the positive effect of it, it might reduce their worries that this peer pressure might lead their teenagers in a wrong way. 
To help these teenagers develop their autonomy, the parents can build teenagers' self-confidence by providing support and guidance. Alongside with peer pressures, teenagers might experience confidence issues that relates to the relationship between their parents as mentioned above; the more they are confident with themselves, the more they feel good about their decisions. The parents can help them by supporting for their choices, and "let them know that you appreciate them and their achievements" (Understanding Teen Decision Making, 2011). Since the parents' primary roles are guiding their teenagers to make the right choices, they "can show the way to good conduct through example and by promoting values" (2011), such decisions related to moral or ethics. 
	Teenagers might seem reckless and immature to parents; however, if they are given chances to make decisions, they will gain more confidence and it will lead them to be a good decision maker. Many different factors, such as earning trust and peer pressure, play different roles in teenagers' desire for decision-making. Earning trust from their parents boosts the teenagers' self-esteem up and bring more confidence to their final decision-making. The parents should let their teenagers take responsibility of their own decisions when the kids enter middle school. However, since their decision-making ability is not completely set up yet, parents should provide guidance until the teenagers feel comfortable with making decisions so that they can move on to major decision-making. 
