P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
04/10/ 2015 
The sleep quality 
	'We are such stuff. As dreams are made on, and our little life is rounded with a sleep.' Sleep quality is very important for everyone because a good sleep will help us to relax the pressure of stress, especially college students. As a college student study in Purdue University, I have sleep problem because I have to do a lot of academic works for a day. Sometimes, I will study over night to prepare for exams and do the homework. It is hard to study in the college. Because of it, I can't get enough sleep so that I haven't too much energy for the next day study. Base on that, I think the poor sleep quality is the main reason causes the negative and positive influence in the academic performance. 
	As a freshman college student, it is difficult for me to study in college. The lack of sleep is a big problem for me and it makes me always late to the class. For example, when I study in the class, I can't concentrate to the content and hard to performance well. In addition, the memory is big part of our academic study and the memories are affected by sleep which would help us to underlie our memory consolidation. In the other hand, the shorten sleep causes another problem which is I can not understand some contents which the teacher teaches in the class so that it is hard for me to do the homework. Also, the sleep loss makes me have a poor communication and normal learning in the class, for instance, when I had group work need to discuss, I couldn't followed our steps or involved into the activities. Therefore, it is difficult for the group members to communicate with them about the group works. So I can know sleep quality affect the academic study from the sleep quality effect of the academic learning. 
I notice that college students always complain that they have to study over night to finish their works in order to get a good score. They also have to wake up early for the next day morning class. Most of them sleep less than 8 hours. A bad sleep affects students' mood, energy level and ability to focus, concentrate and learn which will also affect our academic performance. On the opposite side, if students sleep at least 8 hours before the class and exams, their memory recall and ability to keep concentration to be improved. So as college students, if we want to perform well in studying, we have to get a good sleep. From the article which I searched before, they found out that the students who focus on their emotions and anxiety during the high-stress period are more likely shorten their sleep, the other one who tend to ignore emotions and focus on tasks extend their sleep and shut themselves off from stress. On the basis of their survey of the college students' average sleep length, backgrounds and the average of GPA to see the connection between the sleep quality and academic study, they found that the students who sleep over 9 hours have the higher GPAs that the short sleepers who sleep less than 6 hours a night. The students who sleep between 7 to 8 hours are no significantly different from the long or short sleepers. From that, we can know the poor sleep quality has negative affection on the academic study. 
	From all of above, the sleep loss has negative effect on school performance like the limit of memory and concentrate in the class. And the students stay up to study over night so that they can't get enough sleep. Because of it, I think the sleep quality is the main reason to make a negative and positive influence on the academic study. In general, a college student's sleep quality and study are tightly connected. So we cannot only focus on study and ignore the quality of our sleep. Furthermore, as a college student, I think that we should make a reasonable plan for our daily life as well as make sure that we have a good sleep quality to achieve our study goal. 
