Kendo, a fallen culture 
The origin of Japanese sword could be traced back to thousands of years ago. It was initially created to fight in battle. At that time, kata, a series of form, was widely practiced by samurai. However, with the progress of civilization and the development of kendo, kata has been desolated. Kata is the only thing that connects past and now. Forgetting kata is forgetting history and traditional culture. Finally kendo may lose its status as a symbol of Japan. In order to maintain kendo's value, people should pay more attention to practicing and understanding kata. 
As a part of mental training in kendo, kata teaches people how to prepare for a fight and how they control their mind during a fight. The only reason of old time that samurai could fight for a day or two was that they practice kata every day. While the sword techniques were improving, their minds were getting stronger which made them undefeatable. Jinichi Tokeshi says," Mind leads to win. Only those who strengthen their minds could achieve their destination as a great kendoist" (149). Those who neglect the practice of their mind tend to show their weakness to opponents, which will only lead to failure. On the other hand, those with strong mind tend to fight harder in battle. The power of mind is crucial in kendo, with a stronger mind, he or she can maintain a highly concentrating status for long time which is the key to success in kendo. 
Kata is not only a series of posture, but also has its own practical value. Kata is useful in kendo competition, because it provides a clear view of how to react to almost every possible way of the attack of opponent. During the interview with Sensei Imafuji, a six-dan kendo teacher, he pointed out that old time kendo skills were more complex comparing to modern kendo skills. Because those supervisors of All Japan Kendo Federation have been trying to simplify the techniques passed from old time, and everyone accepted this "improvement". Kendo had attracted so many people around world because of its charming techniques of attacking and defending which are endanger now. As kata getting simpler, people is not able to learn those complex skills which means kendo will lose its diversity of skills. People have to realize the importance of kata right now, otherwise the technique that have passed down thousands year will all gone. At that time, kendo will be just a tedious bamboo sword competition. 
Besides mental and skill practice, the cultural value in kata is also a priceless treasure. Kata has its own cultural value containing Confucianism Buddhism and other eastern wisdom. Kata is a combination of the essence of eastern philosophy. For example, in the first technique of kata, one have to kill another. But it is not all about killing, the most important point is that after swung sword cutting through opponents, one side has to show his or hers respect to the dead person. It seems like nobody cares about what each movement means in kata any more, people are just performing each techniques without thinking its deep meaning. Philosophy is the essence of kata and kata is the spiritual essence of kendo. What an irony that an essence lost its own value. Ignoring the inner meaning of kata will make kendo just a sports that aims at wining. Once everyone forgets kata, kendo is not kendo anymore, because the most valuable spirit has been forgotten. And the only way to prevent this is to practice kata more. 
As some is promoting kata, still some says kata is useless. One instructor I have been practiced with said that don't practice kata unless you need to take a promotion test. He explained that kata is not efficient in modern kendo competition. It is true that kata may not be the best selection, but kata is not just a thing that used for test. As mentioned before, kata is the symbol of kendo rather than a tool. Kata is so important that nobody should ignore it. Practicing kata is preventing kendo from lose its own value. 
History sometimes like a sieve. It pass the valuable thing and stop the worthless. What has been kept must has its own value. Kata is what can explain kendo best, and people should not ignore it. It is proper to say that kata gives kendo a special status, a sports with unique rules in modern society. In order to protect kendo and to improve kendo, kata should never be forgotten. 
Work Cited 
All Japan Kendo Federation. "The History of Kendo." All Japan Kendo Federation. n.d. Web. 02 Nov. 2014. 
Hiro Imafuji. Personal Interview. 11 October 2014. 
Tokeshi, Jinichi. Kendo: Elements, Rules and Philosophy. Honolulu: University of Hawai'i Press. 2003. Print. 
