How students choose their college major
Liz 2013 put forward that students should be prohibit choose their major until second year. He said first year students are most likely making uninformed choices when they determining their major. Students are most likely not developmently prepare their future major before they become a freshman. He said first-year students are still attempting to understand their own identity. In other words, making a decision about choosing a college major is very important for student. Cultivating professional skill in college helps students became competitiveness when they are finding job. In addition, an unsuitable college major will influence their career and life. They may hold negative attitude on their jobs. In my opinion, I think students should choose their college major according to interest.
Firstly, there is great relationship between college major and future job. John (2006) mentioned the mismatch between college majors and occupations. However, from the table in his article, it shows that Fifty-five percent of individuals report that their work and field of study are related. In this case, students should be careful when they choose college major. It is definitely that students don't want do something boring for them when they study in university. What is more, a boring major also means colorless work. More over, college studying is mostly for laying a solid foundation for future job. Students usually study a field knowledge, which is related to their future job. Therefore, studying a interesting college major is very necessary for students.
Secondly, some scientific college major test is based on interest. Shatkin (2011) mentioned a scientific test for helping students choose a college major. He consider that personality type, skills, and favorite high school courses is primary factors that should be part of the decision. There is not difficult to find that these factors both according to interest. Moreover, when I interview my advisor <name> She said there are some survey and test about choosing college major in CODO website at Purdue. All tests in CODO, these tests are based on interest. In light of these findings, interest is an important factor for finding a suitable college major, which means attracting you and you are good at these fields.
Interest is generally consider as a good vehicle to study and provide necessary impetus for success. Choosing college major from their hobby and their interest obviously could make students happy and satisfied when they are studying. Take my roommates <name> <name> and <name> <name> as an example both of them choose their major according to interest. In this case, they have maintained enjoyment for their major. If enjoyment is studetns aspired, I consider that choose their major from their interest is most sensible selection. Some students choose their major according to profit. Maybe, they will make lots of money after they graduate from university. However, money is not equal to happiness. Individuals who are seeking happiness and freedom, choose college majors according to interest is accurately choose. Taunee B (2014) bring forward that many people are suffering from " Comfortable Misery". Many people hate there job, but love the income. Income can't bring people enjoyment. If students doesn't want to become these miserable people, students should careful consider there college major according to happy.
Objective speaking, young people should pursue their dream. However, Dream shouldn't relate to money. I mentioned a lot of evidences before. Because students' college majors are related to future job, which will influence their afterlife, students should choose a suitable major. And a suitable major always based on your personality and interest. In this case, choose major according to interest is best selection leading to happy.
Liz, F. (2013) The developmental disconnect in choosing a major: Why institutions should prohibit choice until second year. US: Butler University.
	http://dus.psu.edu/mentor/2013/06/disconnect-choosing-major/
Shatkin, L. (2011) Panicked student's guide to choosing a college major: How to confidently pick your ideal path. US: JIST Publishing
Taunee, B. (2014) Are you suffering from " Comfortable misery" http://www.careercast.com/career-news/are-you-suffering-comfortable-misery
