P5D2 
04/15/2016 
Globalization and the increasing number of overseas students had attracted people's attention on English teaching since 1980s. People started to realize that English teaching was problematic in China. Either the Ministry of Education or some private tuition centers have tried a lot of ways to change it, but problems still exist. To further improve English teaching in China, I think Chinese Ministry of Education should improve English examination system. One way to achieve this is to specialize English examination. 
First and foremost, specializing English examination reduces unbalanced development of students' functioning in English. As English teaching in China is exam-oriented and English examinations in China now focus only on testing reading and listening skills, speaking is unvalued in Chinese schools. Thus, students are not given many opportunities to practice speaking English, but required to put all their efforts in reading passages and memorizing vocabularies in schools. Canceling examination is not realistic as it is still the most efficient and fair way to test large population of students currently, so the Ministry of Education should create an examination that specializes in testing spoken language which will underline the importance of speaking and force teachers to change their teaching methods to adapt to the new examination. Thus, students are provided more chances to speak English and English teaching in China will be more integrated. 
Secondly, the English examinations in colleges are too general to fulfill the different needs of different majors. CET-4 and CET-6 are the only two standard English examinations in colleges which are compulsory for every college student and colleges provide students compulsory English course to study for these two examinations. However, according to Lin (2002), the English courses in colleges cover only general English vocabularies and grammars which repeat parts of the English knowledge in high school, thus, for students who have to learn professional vocabularies in their majors, this kind of general English course is useless and they still need to study professional English by themselves. So she advised colleges to introduce more types of examinations to test different abilities. Based on her opinion, I believe that colleges should specialize English examinations for different majors to make English teaching in colleges more efficient and more helpful for students. This also help students prepare for applying graduate schools in foreign countries. 
Last but not least, as I have mentioned above, every college student has to take CET-4 and CET-6, and these two examinations are used to measure students' English level, however, I think this measurement is unscientific. For instance, students who study history and students who study literature must be required to know different categories of vocabularies, so they should not be tested by the same examinations which will result in an inaccurate reflection of students' real level. Also these general examinations cannot show their English level in their professional fields. Thus, specialized English examinations for different majors provide a more comprehensive evaluation for students' English proficiency. Also, the score of the specialized English examination will be a more persuasive reference in one student's resume. 
Some may argue that specializing examination in colleges for different majors requires large amount of resources and costs a lot. However, I believe that any reformation requires abundant inputs at the very beginning. And education is worth to invest as it is related to a country's future. Also, as the courses and examinations now repeats the knowledge in high school, these can be considered as a waste of resources though they cost less. Comparing with wasting the resources, I think investing more resources and creating a more efficient education system is valuable and sustainable. 
Other people may think that testing speaking will not improve students' spoken language but limit them because teachers will teach them some standard format to cope with the examination. And this will cause students to express in a single way. However, I believe that the ultimate goal of specializing the speaking examination is not testing speaking but to attract schools' attention on teaching speaking skills and drive teachers to value speaking in their classes. It is true that many teachers may provide students standard formats to help them speak, but this also helps students build confidence in speaking when they score well. I believe this is a effective method to start the reformation. 
In an exam-oriented education system, examination is the best tool that we can use to influence the teaching methods. When we cannot cancel examination, the best we can do is to improve it. Thus I believe specializing English examination is an effective way to improve English teaching in China. 
Reference 
Lin, L. (2002). English Education in Present-day China. Asia-Pacific Cooperative Program, 33. Retrieved from http://www.accu.or.jp/appreb/report/abd/33-2/abd3323.html 
