May 26, 16 
Taiwan Independence 
With one after another provoking affairs between Taiwan and mainland China, the subject of Taiwan independence is exposed under the spotlight over and over again. In fact, Taiwan independence is de facto meaning that Taiwan has what a sovereign country has in practice but Taiwan independence is not supported by law or any officials. The majority of information I found doing this projects seems to be very supportive of Taiwan independence. After a thorough thinking, I reached my own conclusion that Taiwan is not a province of China but it is also not a sovereign nation and the possibility of founding a nation within the background of civilization and globalization depends completely on negotiation and civil acts instead of brutal, ignorant rebellion, also known as terrorism. 
By looking deep inside a sensitive topic such as the UN membership, a few traits in diplomatic stands of the affiliated governments can be gathered to show a larger cause of the cross-trait relation. I have to quote the brilliant word choices because any paraphrasing would spoil the underlying tension. the According to the ministry of foreign affairs of Republic of China 2004, the reason to join the UN is that "through this application, Taiwan not only hopes to give prominence to the objective fact that Taiwan is not a part of China, but also wants to bring the international community's attention to the issue of representation of the 23 million people of Taiwan in the United Nations" section 3, para.2. If that is not a clear enough statement, more decisive words are used as follow: "Due to China's intransigent opposition and other countries' fears of China's retaliation, Taiwan has not made substantial progress in its UN bid. China has also bullied other nations and international organizations into accepting that Taiwan is one of its provinces, which severely erodes the status quo across the Taiwan Strait and threatens Taiwan's existence and security"section 2, para. 1. On the other hand, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Permanent Representative of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations Wang Yingfan 2000 claims that "The Government of the People's Republic of China rightfully represents all Chinese, including our compatriots in Taiwan, at the United Nations and in all its subsidiary bodies. Therefore, there is simply no such issue as the so-called "Taiwan's representation at the United Nations" A/55/420, para. 2. This vast difference between two authorities is an honest representation of the two governments and can be projected to the whole political and legal status of Taiwan. 
Even when Taiwan shows obvious intention to be independent of China, the fact is that they are bonded so tightly by joint aims that disputes can be set aside and the sacred independence can be compromised. For example, the Republic of China published a firm statements on the South China Sea supporting China's sovereignty over Nansha Islands, Shisha Islands, Chungsha Islands, and Tungsha Islands and that any other countries' occupation over these islands and surrounding water is not recognized. The stand of this statement is shockingly similar with that of People's Republic of China. To some extent, it doesn't matter which position Taiwan chose because diplomacy changes easily under the influence of real, fetal problems. 
In this world where globalization means everything, People's Republic of China has established formal ties with almost every countries leaving Republic of China to an awkward position. Most countries acknowledge and respect the one China Policy. The United States of America recognized People's Republic of China in 1979, relocating the attention of this diplomatic relationship from Taipei to Beijing Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, 2015. Ever since then, the official position of the US on Taiwan issue is opposing Taiwan independence. With the great influence of a powerful nation, many more countries found their way to have open, frank dialogues with China and formed strong business connections. To be fair, although Taiwan is one of the top ten biggest trading partner of the US, it has never been the main focus of the United State due to its many limits. Balance between mainland China and Taiwan is distorted. The transformation from a manufactory nation to an industrial economy that triggered Taiwan to prosper is not unique or irreplaceable at all. Since we've already established that politics will easily bend over in front of actual benefits, most countries just made the reasonable judgment call and chose China over Taiwan. 
When people mention China and Taiwan as if they are completely two different countries, it is a bit confusing because even with the immeasurable difference between a "multiparty democracy state" "In Brief", 2016 and an authoritarian regime, life of a Taiwanese and a Chinese is not that different after all. For starter, they all speak the same language Chinese, or more specifically mandarin. They understand each other in the blink of an eye even when they are confronting each other over an internet fight. Most importantly, the same culture and environment nurtured a similar appetite for food. From everyday groceries to gourmet cuisine, it's indubitable that Chinese and Taiwanese eat the same things. I was lucky to have the experience of visiting Taiwan and I was surprised how peaceful and calm that place is. Even I was at a distant island, I felt at home because everyone looks just like my neighbors, friends, relatives. The contradiction between ridiculous political debates and the warm thoughtful treatments made me think how absurd that we are all deployed by our governments. 
As Taiwan reiterates, to maintain the status quo Ma, 2015 would be a satisfactory choice but the sad, inconvenient truth is that it is not up to Taiwanese to decide their own future. Tightened by laws and paperwork, Taiwan is not strong or powerful enough to declare freedom. Above all the tactful negotiation, what matters the most the feelings and bonds of people. I just want to point out that there're billions of people in mainland China who considers Taiwanese as alienated brothers and sisters. More importantly, everyone is entitled to their own opinions. If the idea of a supporter of Taiwan independence is important, who's to say that mine isn't? 
