P4d3_ae 
April 14, 2016 
Credit Cards Negatively Impact on Students 
Using credit cards affects negatively on the financial status of students. Some people may argue that credit cards provide simple and convenient services, making students feel that they have access to free cash that can be used to purchase products they like. However, this feeling stimulates impulsiveness among students and influences their financial condition in a negative way. Students access to a credit card, fail to control their spending habit, and this repeated action makes students compulsive and impulsive on spending. Using credit cards causes serious problems for students as they develop a huge amount of credit card payments and end up in a financial crisis where they fail to save anything and end paying everything for monthly credit card payments. 
	College students are greatly vulnerable to the use of credit cards and they are not mature enough to handle money. Students have less or no experience with managing their money. Age of students is an important period to build a financial plan for students. However, if they misuse and overuse the credit cards, they start to have compulsive spending habit after they apply to credit cards. Many students lose self-control and make impulsive payments, and develop habits of purchasing everything they desire through credit cards. I had interviewed an expert, <name> to discuss students' use of credit cards and the negative effects of credit cards. <name> emphasized the significance of financial management. He said that Students have to construct the healthy financial status in early age to accomplish the steady financial status in the future. Also, the interviewee mentioned that the "credit cards tempt users to spend more than necessary." Students hold credit cards with a misunderstanding of credit cards. They treat the credit as their income and overly use the credit cards. As a result, failure to control their spending habits increases their debt and leads to poor credit rating when they fail to pay back the bank before the deadline. 
	Moreover, Credit cards make students are deprived of their saving ability. Services that provided by the credit cards companies stimulate students' spending that uses over the balance even there is a lack of cash. Having credit cards offer the convenient services that students pay or buy immediately without having money with people themselves. However, this convenient service can end up with a terrible outcome. Before students realize the negatives of aspects of using credit cards, they already use the money that they saved and they may not construct the saving habit. In addition, overspending leads to the development of financial anxiety among students as they do not have the financial resources or incoming income to pay the debt back (Limerick & Peltier, 2014). Using credit cards make students blind that they cannot see the future and cannot save their money. 
	Furthermore, many students end up in a risky financial condition as their credit dries up and they do not have the money to service their debt (Robb & Pinto, 2010). As students cannot suppress their impulsiveness, they discover products and services that they desire. Impulsiveness leads to continuous overspending, debt overload, long-term expenses on a credit card, and prevents students from financial gains. Credit card companies charge significantly large interests to students for their services. These large interest payments are above the principal amount that needs to be paid back. Consequently, they are already in a huge amount of debt from the careless spending and large monthly interest payments, However, if students try to save the money and keep the proper budget line, students can collect the money for the future life and they can gain yearly interest from the bank. It is much better than they end up spending huge amounts money by credit cards and pay interest back to the bank. 
Use of credit card has several negative consequences on students who destroy their financial management as they not only need to pay huge interest payments and monthly late fees. Also, using credit card forces students into financial trouble who do not know how to handle their finance. as they spend on products and services that are beyond their financial abilities. The result is seen in their financial condition as students end up in the financial crisis. Their financial condition faced danger when they need to pay the principal amount and the interest payment. Using credit cards also have long-term negative impacts too, as students develop huge credit card debt and develop poor credit ratings. It is important that students fully recognized about how credit cards work and they need to aware the possible negative effects of the using credit cards that can face with the financial crisis. 
