Have a Right Recognition on Social Media 
P5D3 
Nowadays people have been so familiar with social media. It has been a part of our life that can not be separate. The debate of social media that whether it is harmful is still hard to make a conclusion, which makes it difficult to get a completely right point. Whether support the social media or not, people start to realize this technology brings more than the convenient communication , but also a deep influence to people. So my point on this is , we should be subjective on this new technology, we should both know the merits and disadvantages of this which would be a rational choice and make the best outcome using social media. 
Many people judging social media through their feelings while using it. Some of them feel happy when they post new photos and get response from others. Some of them think differently, they have undergone a depression when they saw others showing off their lives on social media. But really few of them are clear about what social media exactly brings to them. People still know nothing about social media, or they know that they have different feelings while using it, but they don't know the reason. Many of them judge it from their own perspective, they form their opinion objectively, but their opinions maybe wrong. In my opinion, we should have a full recognition on it. We should start to study its good side and bad side , so that we can use it wisely. 
The promotion of social media have many reasons. As a new technology , it is really helpful. There are several merits. As a professor in the field of communication, Glenn Sparks mentioned some obvious good aspects of social media in the interview. This kind of site stimuli people's creativity, helps people to be exposed in more amount of information, put people in contact with a great diversity. It also enhance the relationship between people, especially the people who are in distances. I believe that everyone has a certain extent of joy through using social media. Besides these features that everyone knows, there are some other merits that people didn't see. Social networking sites help students do better at school. 59% of students with access to the Internet report that they use social networking sites to discuss educational topics and 50% use the sites to talk about school assignments.{2} (The sited article are listed at the bottom) Social networking sites spread information faster than any other media. Over 50% of people learn about breaking news on social media. Social networking sites are the top news source for 27.8% of Americans, ranking close to newspapers (28.8%) and above radio (18.8%) and other print publications (6%).{1} Being a part of a social networking site can increase a person's quality of life and reduce the risk of health problems. Social media can help improve life satisfaction, stroke recovery, memory retention, and overall well-being by providing users with a large social group. Additionally, friends on social media can have a "contagion" effect, promoting and helping with exercise, dieting, and smoking cessation goals. {6} Obviously , this technology is influencing society. 
But although social media is undoubtedly good to us , it still become a big issue. Because as we use it more , we find it is not so perfect as we thought. Actually , we all experience the harm social medias had did to us, mentally. We may feel frustrate when we using social medias. Also we may be too addicted to it that we had lost so much concentration on our real life. Social networking sites can lead to stress and offline relationship problems. A University of Edinburgh Business School study found the more Facebook friends a person has, the more stressful the person finds Facebook to use. According to a Feb. 9, 2012 Pew Internet report, 15% of adult social network users had an experience on a social networking site that caused a friendship to end , 12% of adult users had an experience online that resulted in a face-to-face argument, and 3% of adults reported a physical confrontation as the result of an experience on a social networking site.{3} The use of social networking sites is correlated with personality and brain disorders, such as the inability to have in-person conversations, a need for instant gratification, ADHD, and self-centered personalities, as well as addictive behaviors.{7} Pathological Internet Use (caused or exacerbated by social networking use) is associated with feelings of loneliness, depression, anxiety and general distress. {4} Social media causes people to spend less time interacting face-to-face. A Jan. 2012 Center for the Digital Future at the USC Annenberg School study found that the percentage of people reporting less face-to-face time with family in their homes rose from 8% in 2000 to 34% in 2011. Social networking sites facilitate cyberbullying. 49.5% of students reported being the victims of bullying online and 33.7% reported committing bullying behavior online.{10} And I can list as many facts as I can show that social media actually is becoming a serious problem. The alert is already on, we should be careful twith social media. 
Although right now we can only be clear about part of the technology, but the attitude to be subjective and trying to figure out the truth is helpful for us on social media. 
As I once put in the interview and sythensis paper, my point is that technology is neutral. They are always there, what matters is how we use them, how we deal with the inherent defect triggered by technologies. We are adapting creatures. We need to learn, to understand what we had invent , so that we can fully control it. 
Reference List: 
{1} . Kristin Marino, "Social Media: The New News Source," www.schools.com, Apr. 16, 2012 
{2} Sabrina Kidwali and Catherine Imperatore, "Social Media as an Advocacy Tool," Techniques: Connecting Education & Careers, Sep. 2011 
{3} John D. Sutter, "Theater Shooting Unfolds in Real Time on Social Media," www.cnn.com, July 20, 2012 
{4} Trevor Hughes and Carolyn Pesce, "Motive Sought in Deadly Shooting Rampage at Colorado Theater," www.usatoday.com, July 21, 2012 
{5} Lexis Nexis Risk Solutions, "Role of Social Media in Law Enforcement Significant and Growing," www.lexisnexis.com, July 18, 2012 
{6} Dan Evon, "NYPD Adding Twitter Tracking Unit to Police Force," www.socialnewsdaily.com (accessed Dec. 5, 2012) 
{7} Richard Dalke, "Social Media Case Study: The Stanley Cup Hockey Riots," www.freshnetworks.com, June 27,2011 
{8} Global Post, "Vancouver Riots: The Shame and the Blame Spread Online," www.globalpost.com, June 17, 2012 
{9} National School Boards Association, "Creating and Connecting: Research and Guidelines on Online Social - and Educational - Networking," www.nsba.org, July 2007 
{10} Sarah Kessler, "The Case for Social Media in Schools," www.mashable.com, Sep. 29, 2010 
