Thoughts about Homosexuals 
Although there are more and more countries start to accept homosexual groups and admit their marriage, in most of Asian countries, especially in China, homosexual groups are still considered as unacceptable phenomenon by the old generation, which hurts a lot of homosexuals and give them lots of pressure. From my point of view, Chinese government should make more efforts to publicize some information about homosexuals instead of avoiding it in order to make more Chinese people learn more about homosexuals due to lots of reasons. 
First of all, I think sexual preference is a choice of an independent man, it has no relation to any other else. I have even stronger feelings about this after my interview with my friend, <name>. From that interview, <name> told me he tried to make a girlfriend at first before he didn't know his own sexual preference, but finally he failed because he found himself cannot feel happy when he spent time with girls, he even felt very guilty because of that. Why he should feel guilty because of his sexual preference? I think he did nothing wrong, all he did is choosing a little unique way compared with most of people in our society. I believe at the beginning of the world, there is no specific rules for people to determine who their partners will be. So homosexuality is more like the nature of human being instead of a crime or illness. 
Then, compared with heterosexual groups, there are also lots of homosexuals making a lot of efforts to our society. For example, most of famous male designers and male artists are actually homosexuals. Compared with other males, homosexuals always have more sensitive feelings about the world, they can always find the glorious parts of the world from a different angle. But the strange phenomenon is that some people appreciate those designers' work before they know their real sexual preference, but they cannot accept their work after they know they are homosexuals. For example, before Tim Cook admitted his homosexual identity, all the work he had done was been appreciated by lots of people and of course he also had lots of supporters, but after he admitted his sexual preference in front of social media, there were lots of people have claimed that they would never use Apple's products any more because Tim Cook is a gay. What's more, I found that a lot of articles about Tim at that time were all focused on his gay identity instead of Apple company and products he represents. From my point of view, the most interesting part about the whole thing is that Apple's products don't change at all after Tim Cook's announcement, in fact, products' qualities has no relationship to Tim's sexual preference, but people will still connect these two things together even though there is no logic between them. So I think it is very important for government to make people learn about homosexuals. 
What's more, there are also lots of people have concerns about that may be education about homosexuals and heterosexuals will mislead the children because they don't have ability to identify what their real preference is. I think there is no need for them to worry about that because education always should be step by step. It is also very necessary for children to be taught something about gender things because it may make their future life easier, they don't need to worry about lots of unnecessary things like my friend Kevin did. 
In general, I think it is very important for our government to publicize more information about homosexuals because they are a very important part of our society and they can also make lots of contributions. 
