Match Fixing and Its Affects 
April 19th 2015 
Purdue University 
The match-fixing incident in Turkey involving Fenerbahce's president Aziz Yildirim being "convicted of forming and leading a criminal gang to fix four games in the Turkish league" almost ended professional football in Turkey (Fraser, 2013). Yildirim was so determined to take his team to the top of the league and benefit the club with around 58 million dollars by going into Champions League group stages that he bribed many players and changed the outcome of the games. Unfortunately this incident affected the fanatic fans in Turkey in many ways, which started a chain of events that almost lead to the end of professional football in Turkey. All scandals and incidents hurt sports. However, match fixing has been the biggest threat to sports in the 21st century and the recent incident in Turkey is a great example to show its affects. 
Sadly match fixing has always been a part of sports and especially football however, with the recent increase of fanatic fans in the past decade the affects of match fixing have been boosted. 21st century fanatic fans support their teams so excessively that they see it as a religion (Wang, 2006). When fanatic fans see that what they have paid for, believed in and supported was all a scam they feel betrayed and disappointed. Sports take a big hit when fans feel betrayed and lose passion. Consequently when scams like these happen the fans stop coming to games however, in the case of Fenerbahce fans it was slightly different. 
Just like most fans Fenerbahce fans felt betrayed and disappointed. The scandal tore apart Fenerbahce fans and made them stop coming to the games in order to boycott the federation. However, Fenerbahce fans stood by their president after he was proven guilty of match fixing however they put the blame on the Turkish Football Federation and supported their president. Unfortunately they thought that their boycotts were not enough and they found a new way to regroup and 'act as Fenerbahce fans' by violence. Scandals like these that hurt the fans so fanatic fans may react violently towards scandalous incidents. In this case Fenerbahce fans turned all their hate to the federation and the government. They protested them violently by starting riots and fighting the police, which made the leagues stop. As we can clearly see fans that identify themselves with their team like "a religion or an ethnicity" tend to blindly stand by their team (Carpenter, 2011). 
As a result of scandals and disappointment of fans, athletes lost passion too when fans stopped coming to the games. So the chain of events brought the greatest danger to the sport we love. After the match fixing scandal and the ongoing investigations, the Turkish League was postponed to another date and most people knew that the leagues might not even be played that year. That was the closest time when a well-known league came to an almost end. Although after months of investigation the court found enough evidence to let the league start. However, there wasn't enough time to have full year league so the federation tried to squeeze the schedule and have weekday games as well as weekend games. This decision lead to many players' injuries because of the tight schedule and many well know world stars like Emanuel Emenike and Andre Santos have left the league after seeing the situation. The fans stood by their club and president after everything that happened which unfortunately gave more power and courage to their president Aziz Yildirim in front of the law and the federation. 
When people with so much power manage big clubs it can get very dangerous for the sports we love. If match fixing spreads further into sports it could even be problematic for the world cooperation when thinking of Olympics. Considering it's unfortunately very easy to fix games in small leagues with so many powerful people in charge of clubs as presidents and chairmen spread of match fixing will be very threatening to the sports we love since it has to potential to move to other sports. 
Match fixing is the biggest threat to modern sports and the match fixing incident in Turkey that involved Aziz Yildirim is only one example to see the broader problem. From parting of football stars, to riots organized by disappointed fans that want to protest the football federation and the government were great threats to Turkish football and can act as an example of dangers of cheating in sports. Match fixing is a serious risk for the sports we love and federations have to take measures to get in front of it. After seeing all the illegal activities the presidents have done to go to European cup group stages and to get profits even though they knew about the consequences puts fear in most sports fans. Clearly the measures that the federations have taken and the big consequences that face people who get involved in match fixing wasn't big enough to scare off such powerful people like Aziz Yildirim. Thus, the government should follow a different path and appoint representatives from the government to each club's financial department to keep track of the cash flow of not only the club but also the board, chairmen and president. By reporting the cash flow to the federation on a regular basis the representatives can report any skeptical money transfer that has the potential to be a bribe. With this way we can protect the sports we love and avoid a great danger to not only on sports but also the world peace as well considering the violence brought by scandals like Fenerbahce's and their potential to spread into other sports like Olympics. 
