Argumentative Paper 
11/23/15 
Mobile Games Are Beneficial 
	Thesis Statement: Mobile phone games can be seen beneficial to people from the perspectives of revolutionizing education, improving human health conditions, and providing feasible solutions to various problems. 
	With the advancement of technologies and the popularity of smartphones, mobile games are becoming increasingly relevant to various areas of society. Despite the many benefits of mobile games, people with opposition may argue that mobile games might not be beneficial to people. One opposing question could be what if people get addicted to mobile games. Also, why is mobile gaming education better than traditional education? Another opposing idea might be: do the benefits significantly outweigh the negatives? Even though there are several opposing ideas, I still strongly believe that mobile games can be essentially beneficial to people. 
	The first opposition that I will address is mobile-gaming addiction. During the interview with Dr. Watson, we talked about people getting addicted to mobile games. He responded by saying that mobile gaming is just like anything else that people can get addicted to. Especially for children, parents need to be aware of what their kids are doing with mobile games. People can get addicted to essentially anything, not just limited to mobile games. Therefore, if everyone can watch out for excessive behavior and others can put restraints on people who are addicted to mobile games in a timely manner, it is possible to minimize the harmful effects of addiction. 
	With more and more computers and tablets available in classrooms throughout the world, mobile education has been playing a significant role in changing the way of education. However, people may wonder why education using mobile games can be better than traditional education. There are several aspects of mobile games that make them better than traditional education such as changing people's ways of thinking and motivating learners to learn more. Most supporting evidence of beneficial mobile education also comes from the interview with <name>. According to <name>, mobile-gaming education is beneficial to people because it is capable of combining different areas of studies and changing players' learning structures. Furthermore, mobile games enable players to learn things in meaningful contexts which give them better understanding of the problems and allow them to develop different problem-solving strategies using newly acquired knowledge from the games. One specific example he gave was a study conducted on the difference between people who played video games and people who did not play video games as they grew up. The result was that people who grew up playing video games tend to learn new things through engaging ways. The benefits of using mobile education can be seen in other areas as well. 
	Third body paragraph: I will talk about other aspects of how mobile education is beneficial. 
	Fourth body paragraph: I will address the third opposition and support my argument using evidence from previous papers. 
	Conclusion 
