April 26, 2015 
Solar energy in India 
One of my distant cousins who lives and studies in an Indian village tells me that sometimes before the exams he has to study under a candle light at night because there is no electricity for most part of the day. This is not uncommon in India given that there is a deficit in the supply of electricity in India. Moreover, India is estimated to face a 4.5% gap between the supply and demand of electricity in the coming decade and the gap could be as high as 7% if there is high reliance on conventional sources of energy (<Name>, personal communication, March 30, 2015). However a developing country like India, one of the fastest growing economies in Asia, cannot afford such a gap between the demand and supply. For reducing the gap between the demand and supply, the government should mandate all residential and commercial buildings to operate on at least 10% solar energy. 
India has a growing population and a faster growing real estate sector. If the government mandates at least 10% solar energy on all residential and commercial buildings, this will have tremendous environmental benefits for the country. The solar power as the energy source has the various advantages like slowing down the process of global warming and being a reliable energy. The global threat of climate change is a concern not only for India, but for the whole world. Excessive use of the conventional sources of power generation have polluted the environment to such an extent that India is experiencing variations in the monsoon patterns, increasing surface temperature of the earth and rising sea levels. In addition, solar energy will not only reduce the dependence on conventional sources of energy, it will also be more reliable since there is unlimited supply of solar energy (Krishnaiah, personal communication, March 30, 2015). Consequently, solar energy can pave a path of development for a green India. 
In recent years many people and countries have criticized India about its high levels of pollution. Adapting solar energy will not only be a reply to all those countries, but also be profitable for India itself as it will boost the solar sector of the country. At present, due to low demand for solar energy, India's solar industry depends on imports of critical raw material and components, which decreases efficiency and increases the cost of production. This is a big barrier if the country wants to be completely solar energized. But by mandating solar energy on all buildings, the solar sector will get more incentives to produce all the critical components in the country itself for lowering costs and improving efficiency (Ministry of New and Renewable Energy). Concurrently, this will encourage more R&D, creating a greater chance for further development of solar energy. Thus, this will reduce the costs of solar energy in the long-term. 
Though solar energy has many benefits, it has its own disadvantages, due to which people may be against the government mandating 10% solar energy on all residential and commercial buildings. Currently, not all people and businesses can afford to get 10% electricity from solar as it has high initial costs. However, a new technology, spray on technology, is going to hit the markets in a few years. This technology seems to overcome some disadvantages of the current technologies used to produce solar energy. While the new technology has a simple manufacturing process, it also saves on material cost by 5% compared to the crystalline technology and 19% compared to the thin film technology (Evans 2013, pp.77-79). This technology will significantly reduce the initial costs of installing the solar energy in the next few years, making solar energy more affordable to all. If the government wants to mandate solar energy before the reduction in costs of solar energy, then it can provide subsidies to those who cannot afford solar energy, till there is a change in the technology and the costs come down. 
After looking at the costs and benefits one should definitely favour the government mandating 10% of electricity from solar energy on all residential and commercial buildings. Though it has a few problems, clearly they can be overcome and can benefit the country in the long-term. Should the government mandate 10% solar energy, it will ensure installation of solar in all buildings not only in the urban, but also rural areas. This will be valuable to my cousin and many millions like him who struggle due to the lack of electricity. It will open a window of opportunities for those aspiring people who want to do something with their lives. Hence, it will make the country more productive and efficient and set it onto a path of being a developed nation. 
