12/12/2015 
The feasibility of electric vehicle's use in China 
An electric vehicle (EV), also referred to as an electric drive vehicle, uses one or more electric motors or traction motors for propulsion. [1] Recently, plenty of topics about the electric vehicles gradually become hot and popular in people's daily communication. Actually, the development of the electric vehicles has started in the 19th century. So, the reason why people are willing to talk about the use of electric vehicles nowadays is that they begin to realize that the environment especially in China is worse and worse and they need to come up with some solutions to solve it. Facing this topic, some critics support to use motor vehicles and state that it is not necessary for people in China to start to use electric vehicles to enhance the society because the development of the electric vehicles now is not mature, which means that there are still uncertain points such as the safety and cost of the electric vehicles. However, in my opinion, the use of the electric vehicles in China is exactly expectant and feasible. And the reasons which can support my opinion will be separately listed as follows. 
First and foremost, electric vehicles can efficiently save non-renewable energy resource because they only use electric as energy to move, which means that this kind of vehicles do not need to use gasoline any more. From the "How products are made" Forum, I know that gasoline is a volatile, flammable liquid obtained from the refinement of petroleum, or crude oil [2] and almost machines nowadays depend on petroleum. With the development of technology in China, almost Chinese nowadays can afford a car with the policy of loan from the government. In this case, the demand of motor vehicles is being achieved rapidly. Actually, the number of motor vehicles maintains capacity of 1. 92 billion [3]. Obviously, as a country which has the most population in the world, China's use of petroleum is extremely huge. So, the appearance of the electric vehicles can efficiently replace the motor vehicles. And then, the use of gasoline to motor vehicles will widely decrease. However, in this situation, some taxi drivers who have driven the electric taxi in my city state that motor vehicle are still better because the gasoline can provide more motivation and make vehicles run faster than battery does. To this point, there is an explicit statement given by Professor <name> who is an assistant professor in the school of industrial engineering at Purdue University. Professor <name> states that nowadays the companies in China which produce the electric vehicles also notice this problem, so they are also develop some new kind of battery to make sure the motivation of electric vehicles equal that of gasoline vehicles. In this situation, those people's worries will be rapidly solved in the future. Therefore, the use of battery vehicles seem to be necessary because of saving the rare non-renewable energy resource. 
Moreover, the use of the electric for vehicles can widely reduce the exhaust of pollution. Each gasoline car produce a lot of carbon monoxide hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides which can easily cause air pollution. In today's China, the problem of air pollution is extremely serious, the sky in all the Chinese cities are always cloudy. Only 1 percent of the China's 560million city dwellers breath air considered safe by European Union standards according to a World Bank study. Air pollution is particularly bad in the rust belt areas of northeastern China. A study done by the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that the amount 20 times that WHO considers a safe level.[4] And the research from the Chinese environmental protection administration states the nowadays the pollution from the motor vehicles gradually becomes the most important reason to cause the air pollution in China. The principal of this research claims that the emission from the motor vehicles seriously influences people's health and environment and the government begins to limit the demand of the gasoline vehicles. In this case, because of using battery, the electric vehicles can easily develop this problem. A paper which named "Research on Development Electric Vehicles in China" written by Ping Guo and Peng Liu points out that the electric vehicles do not discharge any exhaust which is harmful to the environment and people's health. It seems that using electric vehicle to replace the motor vehicle is a valid way to protect the environment, but some critic points out it is not convenient for all the people to use battery cars because there is a little battery station nowadays. To this problem, I have read a news named "Promotion of Electric Vehicles in Hong Kong" [5]. Through reading this news, I can find that more and more local government in China gradually begin to generalize the use of electric vehicle such as using it as taxi and plan to build to more battery station. So, this worry can immediately handle by the promotion of the government. As a result, no emission is also an essential reason for the use of the electric vehicles. 
Finally, although some people may points out that the cost of electric vehicles is a little expensive and they worry that almost Chinese are not willing to pay for it, the electric vehicles can continuously help people save their money because of the cheap cost of the battery. It is known that all the people should use gasoline to refuel their motor vehicles, as I mentioned above, gasoline becomes less and less recently, which means that the sale of it will gradually increase. In this situation, when a person buy a motor vehicle in a low price compare to the electric vehicle, they will spend lots of money on feeding their motor vehicles. However, to the electric vehicles, it can be easily charged by electric. As a clean energy, electric is exactly easier to get, so the cost of people to charge their vehicles is totally cheaper than that of gasoline vehicles. In other words, people will save their money if they choose to use electric vehicles but not gasoline vehicles in a long period. 
In short, through the above reasons, we can clearly know almost advantages brought form the electric vehicles. The electric vehicles can not only save the rare energy resource but also efficient develop and enhance the China's environment. So, promoting the use of the electric vehicles seems to be feasible and necessary. And all the worries from some people to the battery vehicles can also be solved by different kinds of solutions. At now, not just in China, most of countries have tried to use the electric vehicles. The development in the future of the electric vehicles will be brighter and better with the more experiments. 
Reference: 
1. Electric vehicle. Web. 13 Dec. 2015. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_vehicle >. 
2. Kristine M. Krapp, ed. "Gasoline." How products made Web. 13 Dec. 2015. <http://www.madehow.com/Volume-2/Gasoline.html>. 
3. Guo, Ping. "Research on Development of Electric Vehicles in China." IEEE. 10 Oct 2010 <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5655778> 
4. Jeffrey Hays. "Air Pollution in China." Fact and Details. Web. 1 Jan. 2014. 
5. "Promotion of Electric Vehicles in Hong Kong." Environmental Protection Department. Web. 13 Dec. 2015. <http://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/english/environmentinhk/air/prob_solutions/promotion_ev.html>. 
