Parasitical research is a promising field other than just medical purpose 
Purdue University 
Introduction: 
		With our scientific research keeps going on, humanity now have a better understanding of the world. How everything around us works and the mechanism behind them. However, in the field of biological research, people tend to do a lot on medical research. There is a very large field in the biological research which I believe we should put more effort on other than just the medical purpose, the parasitic research. 
		First of all, I would like to explain one thing that the field of parasite is very large. It covers almost bacterial, viral and many other kinds of organisms research. Parasites are not simply just a big white disgusting worm lives inside people's body. By biological definition, all the living organisms that lives in another organism and draining nutrition or energy from the host are called parasites. It is expected to have more than 40% of the living things are parasites accordingly to my bio professor. It contains a lot of mysteries which hasn't been answered yet. 
		Unfortunately, now we tend to know more about its pathology and the cure for it. I am not saying this is bad. I mean we should research more than this. The only thing it takes are money and effort. On the other hand, what we can get is far more outweigh the cost. To illustrate my idea, I will go by three parts, the possible benefits, potential and risks. 
Benefits 
		Undoubtly there are many possible benefits linked to many fields. The most direct one is the field of biology of course. The research may be helpful for ecology as the parasites are have a quite large scale in our ecosystem. I will mention two different types of parasites as an example. The first one is the zombie ants fungi. It is a very interesting fungi which spreads spores and targets the work ants. These spores will control the ants and turn them into a kind of mindless drones. These infected ants will do everything for the fungi. This is a very interesting phenomenon. What's more interesting is that there is an anti-zombie-ants-fungi fungi. (Hughes, David, etc.2011) There is another kind of parasite called Betty. It live mainly in the Mediterranean Sea. It eats and replaces the fish tongue and lives on the fish blood which is supposed to go to the tongue. The parasites have very unique ways of living. So if we keep on researching we may find may special things about how parasites affect our ecosystem. 
		I also conducted an interview to a Ph D who is working in <name of a lab> . His name is <name> . He and his coworkers are mainly working on molecular shapes. I asked him about the possible benefits in this area. He mentioned the malaria and sickle cell amenia. These two diseases have a very special relationship. The sickle cell amenia is a quite deadly disease caused by a mutation. However, this disease can cause a great increase in the resistance to the malaria plague. How? Because the disease will change the shape of the red blood cell will is the target of the parasite causes the plague. "Biomolecules are very demanding in shapes. It's like keys and doors, without the matching shape, everything can go wrong. This example also indicates why the population of the sickle cell anemia is so high in Africa. " ( <name> ,2016)This reminds me that Plasmodium parasites, which causes the plague, has a lot of mysteries unsolved. Like the gilding system and the motion system of the parasite. It is considered to have some relationship with the actin and myosin but no one knows. Within our body, all our muscle is also constructed with the actin and myosin. So it will be very likely to help us understand our muscle.( Olshina, Maya , etc. 2015) 
Potential 
The potential of the research is very promising. As it is one of the largest kind of organisms, there is much for us to learn. The potential of a biological field research is based on the number of the species and the population of the species which is called individual difference. 
We all know that even in the same species, we have different phenotypes which is caused by the mutation in the DNA. But the rate of mutation is fixed and can't be changed naturally. Then the scale is quite important. Now that the parasites have the largest number. It is very likely for us to find some kind of phenotype which is favorable for us or our purpose. The crops we grow and eat nowadays is a very good example. They weren't like this in ancient times. Then we plant them. We select those can grow better and stronger. And we grow these plants we selected. After a very long period of selection, we finally have the crops we are familiar now. These are the typical examples of individual difference. Now that the parasites, including virus and bacteria, are one of the largest kingdoms of organisms, obviously have a quite great potential in this field. 
		Also, the trans genetic bacteria is created in a similar way. It's just that we artificially added the genes we selected. We inoculate them and we use a very simple way to select the bacteria to get what we want. 
		What I have just mentioned is the potential due to individual difference within a species. There is another kind of potential which is about the number of the species. This is also very simple. The larger number of species, the more possible we will be able to find species which fits our purpose. Then we use this kind of species to finish what we wanted them to do. 
		For instance, the Anthrax, a kind of deadly bacteria, is made into a kind of Bio-organic weapon. It is not about weaponization of the organism but about people get the effect of using this kind of organism. The deadly bacteria turns into the weapon. This kind of potential is based on the differences between species. The more species we have, the more possible we will find something useful for us. With so many types of parasites, surely we can find some useful types. 
Cost 
		The cost for this is simply a cost that every research will have. Directly we can see that it requires money and manpower to do this. No matter the equipment, the salary of the scientist and the people working in other ways for this purpose or the field cost has to be included. For sure that is a quite large amount of money, but every research needs that kind of funding. The manpower for this is also a very important one. The facility requires people to run and maintain it. The scientist are needed to do the research. 
		The opportunity cost is that the money we can use to do other things which is the opportunity for every spent money. The scientist may be able to work on other projects and may produce some outcome. 
	My interviewee told me that more funding has been put on physical and chemical research than biological research. The main cause for this phenomenon is due to the rather low cost compared to the other research. Purchasing the fancy collider and other stuff costs more than a field study for bio research. So the research cost requirement is quite low. 
Conclusion 
		As I have mentioned a lot of times, parasites is one of the largest kind of organisms. This represents the potential of the parasites. The research may also leads to medical breakthrough and other possible benefits in the medical field. This is also good. But there are more than just these benefits. I think that no one will say that medical breakthrough is not important. With medical breakthrough and other benefits I have mentioned, parasitical research is a very promising field. 
