P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 27, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Determining whether something should or should not be done could be weighed in many aspects. Different people have different answers due to their respective points of view. On balance, my point is that the final judgment must depend on the case by case analysis of the two situations. As for me, I was almost persuaded by those speakers, including my mother, who believe that people should not to drink coffee because coffee will do harm to people's health. At the first glance, this opinion seems somewhat appealing, however further reflection tells me that I cannot agree with it. I do think drinking coffee is good for people's health, and my reasons are listed as follows in response to the controversy. 
First and foremost, as far as I am concerned, drinking coffee rationally will not do harm to human health, instead, it will it will bring moderate coffee drinker countless benefits. Normal coffee contains a consistent balance of nutrients, such as niacin, free fatty acid, caffeine, and tannic acid. Coffee beans contain a plentiful amount of niacin, especially after been roasted. The human body now is known to need at least 13 different vitamin molecules. Niacin, which is also known as vitamin B3, is one of them. Besides, drinking coffee can allay tiredness and help the human body restore strength. A cup of coffee brings people nutritional supplements and trace elements. Caffeine - the most important content in coffee, can increase human's resting metabolism rate, stimulate the liver, and increase the blood flow to the brain. If people want to wake their body up in the morning, drink a cup of coffee will be a good choice. Furthermore, coffee contains massive amounts of antioxidants. antioxidants can really help the body maintain healthy and slow down the aging process, it can help protect people against free radical damage as well. Beyond that, coffee is actually one of the five highest foods rich in antioxidants in the world today. 
Second of all, drinking coffee can reduce several kinds of health risks. A research from Harvard University shows that heavy coffee drinkers may be half as likely to get diabetes as light drinkers or nondrinkers. (Howard, 2005) Coffee may contain ingredients that lower blood sugar. A coffee habit may also increase your resting metabolism rate, which could help keep diabetes at bay. Also, people who drink coffee have lower risk to suffer gallstone disease. A diet high in cholesterol is reported to be a potential cause of this disease. Coffee contains isoflavone which can adjust the cholesterol content in bile. In other word, it will prevent cholesterol become cholesterol crystal - the content cause gallstones. In this way, gall bladder will be protected."Our findings indicate that higher coffee and caffeine intake is associated with a significantly lower incidence of PD. This effect appears to be independent of smoking. The data suggest that the mechanism is related to caffeine intake and not to other nutrients contained in coffee," G. Webster Ross, MD said. 
Last but not the least, drinking coffee help people relax themselves. Coffee break is not a new words for Western people. Most of the companies do have at least one coffee break per day. People work there can use this opportunity to enjoy a cup of fresh coffee. At the same time, coffee holding in their hand gives them a great chance to meet new people and to expand their social networks. It becomes an ice-breaking topic, people can chat about the brand, tastes, stories of coffee. Undeniable, coffee lovers can gain a sense of accomplishment when they made their own coffee. From grounding beans to brewing, coffee lovers will get numerous positive emotions and attitudes, such as accomplishment, fulfillment, happiness, satisfaction, and so on. In the long term, these positive emotions and attitudes will contribute both to human's mental wellbeing and body health. 
Admittedly, some people claim that drinking coffee will increase people's risks for osteoporosis. Indeed, a massive dose of caffeine intake may decrease calcium absorption and contribute to bone loss. However, if people can drink coffee rationally, this will not be any risk at all. Several researches show that phosphoric acid is a contributor to bone loss that cannot be neglected. A survey done by Tsinghua University in 2009 reveals that most of those patients who suffer from osteoporosis are cola-lovers, and one of the active ingredients in cola is phosphoric acid. This survey also testifies the statement of "large ratio of osteoporosis is caused by phosphoric acid" on the other side. So, there is no direct evidence shows that moderate coffee drinking will increase person's risk of developing osteoporosis or weakened bones. 
Some people also reckon that drinking coffee will cause cardia-cerebrovascular disease. I think this charge is caused by a vague concept between fresh coffee and instant coffee. Freshly brewed coffee drinks are made of fresh coffee beans and water, sometimes may contain milk and sugar according to the tastes of different people. So, freshly brewed coffee drinks do not contain any artificial colors, food flavor, and food preservatives, which ensure it is fresh and healthy. However, the instant coffee is a totally different story. It contains a massive amount of non-dairy creamer which is a synthetic combination of chemicals - like dipotassium phosphate, partially hydrogenated soybean oil, high-fructose corn syrup, and milk products. That is why instant coffee will do harm to people's healthy, and freshly brewed coffee won't. 
After case-by-case analyzing, I believe drinking coffee will not do harm to people. Instead, by drinking coffee, people can lower the risk of getting diabetes. Besides, those negative debate about coffee was defeated by several unarguable researches. Base on reality and those research done by specialist, coffee is good for people's health both physically and mentally, as long as people can drink coffee moderately. 
Argumentative Essay 3 
