Development of the future smartphone 
The smartphone is the technology device that is the closest to our daily life. People kept dreaming about the smartphone since last century till now. However, it is easy to figure out that smartphone development entered a stagnant condition after years' boom. Smartphones in the market literally have same models for years and no considerable innovation appeared. However, even in the future, there would not be huge change happened. In other words, the future smartphone model is fixed and there will only be advancement inside it. Smartphones after 5 years will look similar to the ones in our hands today. There are two reasons supporting this theory. 
Firstly, smartphones already have the perfect shape to be held for daily life. Smartphones are a necessary tool for daily life. No one can live without a smartphone in nowadays society. To be used every minute by men, women and children, instead of costumed size, companies kept trying their best to find out the best smartphones models supplying the most comfortable holding experience for customers. All dimension of the smartphone including screen size, thickness, weight, texture, the position of jacks and buttons, are designed carefully. Since the first generation of big-size screen smartphones like Iphone1 were released, these parameters of the model were changing continuously and were somehow stopped changing recent 2 years. This stagnate is due to the satisfaction of users' requirements. People are using the best model of smartphones. For example, there were some unsuccessful smartphone models. Nokia tried lot on model innovations. Nokia X5-01, which has a square shape, and a crosswise phone Nokia N-Gage were totally failed Fortune, 2010. Only the most enjoyable and effective models can survive which are the ones in our hands. In this way, People have no needs to change the appearance. No changes can make the using experience better. So there will not be changes happened in models of future smartphones. 
Secondly, there will be wearable accessories popularized in the future, which means smartphones only need to be implemented inside. Wearable devices are electronic devices which coordinate with smartphones which can be worn as watches or glass. Users can check information like messages or emails by a glance of displace screens on the wearable accessories instead of the ones on smartphones. It is obvious that wearable devices will be widely disseminated. Here is the market record and expectation of wearable devices shipments. There was a 163.6% up happened in 2015 and there will be an annual growth rate of 22.9% in the later five-year compound Reuters, 2015. People have a tendency to be lazy and time-saving. The wearables can easily save people's time and must be the future trend. Answer a friend's invitation by a touch on the future watch would be much easier than pick up the smartphones in the pocket and check the mailbox every hour. However, these wearable devices are too small to hold any other functions except message display. It has to be work pairing with a smartphone. Therefore, these wearable devices will be an interface extension of smartphones and significantly reduce numbers of times of looking at smartphones' screens. In this case, in the future, users will have little needs on the smartphones' appearance, and will pay more attentions on the wearable devices. Smartphones companies will accordingly spend less on the outside of smartphones and more inside of smartphones to perform better with wearable devices. 
Nonetheless, there are people consist that there will be technology revolution happened on smartphones. Some people notice that some smartphones with fancy functions like curve screens appear these days and more and more concept models were shown in exhibitions. As the result of the general emergence of sci-fi smartphones in movies, there is a concept stay in most people's mind, which is that smartphones should be futuristic and different from the ones at present. However, they have ignored a truth that things happened in works don't make sense in reality. Also, concept smartphones in the exhibitions are only shows of the technology advance. These new technologies may be applied in all kinds of areas in different forms. Concept smartphones can only show a tendency of development or a simple try of imaginations. Smartphones will vary in a smooth progress and will always be in a triangular balance of performance, price and efficiency. Obviously, smartphones at present have experienced the test of users and are representative of the most balance model of smartphones. 
As a conclusion, smartphones will keep in the same model and will work with wearable accessories extensively due to two reasons. First reason is that the smartphone has already been in the model that fits people's needs best. People need it to be handy and comfortable to use for regular issues and entertainments. Smartphones have evolved several generations. And finally achieved in the best model. Second reason is due to the obvious technology trend. There must be a new wave of wearable accessories happened in the future due to the market fact. In addition, it is more efficient to put information on the smartwatch from the smartphones. When people pay fewer attentions on their smartphones, smartphone companies do not need to do much on its appearance. As a result, smartphones won't look distinct in the future. Although there will not be great changes arrived on smartphones, there still exist things worth our expectation. Cameras, graphic performance and more stable and faster networks will always give us surprises. 
Reference 
Reuters, 2015, Fueled by Growing Demand for Smart Wearables, IDC Forecasts Worldwide Wearable Shipments to Reach 173. 4 Million by 2019. 
From http://www.reuters.com/article/ma-idc-id USn Bw145126a+100+BSW20150914 
Fortune, 2010, The 5 worst cell phone designs of all time 
From http://fortune.com/2010/07/21/the-5-worst-cell-phone-designs-of-all-time/ 
