Video Games: A New Era of Sports? 
Kobe Bryant just retired from NBA, a real and traditional sport association a few days ago. Myriad of people in the world sat in front of televisions and shared this moment. We all say that this twenty-years long journey of a man is a miracle. And half a year ago, on the other side of the earth, an eminent player of Star Craft, Lee 'Flash' Young Ho retired from his team. Flash's career created a new and hard-to-reach height for every Star Craft player. Until today, many players still respect him as the greatest player of Star Craft. 
Kobe Bryant, Flash, they are both the greatest players, athletes of their periods. But, not all people treat them as the same kind of players and believe that basketball and video games could be categorized as sports. They used the definition from Merriam- Webster Dictionary as a kind of evidence: Sport is a contest or game in which people do certain physical activities according to a specific set of rules and compete against each other. They emphasized 'physical activities' and mentioned that video games can contain a part of competition, but none of them requires high physical ability. In addition, games like Star Craft need players with a mighty heart, a good and effective strategy. For those traditional sports, team spirit is vital to win. In effect, for them, video games are parallel to sports. Matthew Clough, 2016 
After I read an article which supports that video games should not be classified as a sport. I noticed there was only one comment at the bottom of the page. It said in a cynical way: 'If stupidity has mass, then you are a black hole. -----from gamers'. African American fight for centuries to get their justice, to get their right and power to be seen as a normal human. Three score years after I have a dream, gamers insist they today are still being seared in the flame of injustice. They trained day by day and their APM can be over 1200-means more than twenty actions done by keyboard and computer mouse in one second. Those professional players practice dedicatedly and diligently to get a few dollars, no more than ten thousands of dollars. For instance, the whole bonus pool of GSL Finals usually is only one percent of Kobe Bryant's salary which is twenty-two millions of dollars. Most players dedicate best time of their life into video games. The debut of Flash was at the time when he was only 14 years old. And he left his stage eight years later. At the same age, we are in school and quarrel with our parents. For their dedication, video games are more popular among different generations and becoming a beloved pastime, sport. 
From what Matthew Clough said, it is stupid and ridiculous to make team spirit equal to sports. There is no doubt that most physical sports need cooperation, good assist and support from your teammates and to rebut this, the first thing comes to my mind is table tennis Ping-Pang and then boxing, high jump, long jump. So many sports could and should be done by one person. Players may get aid from their coaches, analysts and medicals, but in the match, on the way to break records and limits, there is no team spirit. Thus, nobody is able to say that video games should not be classified as sports because video games don't require team spirit, no need to mention those games what are played as a league. And of course, as I said before, a strong physical exertion is also a demand of video games. 
In the future, VR equipment becomes common in people's life. More jerk need to be done while playing computer/video games. As a truth, not all video games can be seen as a sport. But for those games including athletic ability and mental strength, when played in VR instruments, would be more like, even same as those conventional sports. 
But still, VR is an illusion. Keyboard, Computer mouse and Game grip are still the trident of video games and discrimination of video games always exist. I still remember the day of GSL finals, the host said to the champion Im MVP another South Korean Star Craft player and audience with tears in his orbits: 'My parents said to me, Jones, it is just a game, quit it.' Yes, so many people are 'racist', not for ethnicity, but for matches. Nevertheless, before the light from dawn, there always is full of dark. I also remember that host said in the end:" Being here today, people from all over the world, share this moment. It is nothing that money can do. It is a miracle." Exactly, it is a miracle and it is a new era. 
Reference List 
Matthew Clough. October 2 2015. Video games should not be classified as a sport. THE UNIVERSITY DAILY KANSAN. Retrieved from http://www.kansan.com/opinion/clough-video-games-should-not-be-classified-as-a-sport/article_75802f0c-68d4-11e5-9037-67c2fab3dda3.html 
