P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
Pilots should manipulate the airplane to improve the safety of airplanes 
Nowadays, the number of people who would like to choose airplane as their transportation for business or traveling is increasing. Meanwhile, with the air crashes happened among these months, people started to concern about the safety of the airplane. To figure out how to make the plane safer, I think that one important way is to let pilots manipulate the airplane instead of handing all the tasks to the computers. 
The computers are becoming more powerful with the development of technology, and the programmer of the computer even designed the programs that can replace the pilots to control the airplane. At the beginning of the invention of airplane, the pilots had to do so many tasks to take off the airplane and control it while it's in the sky. Then, people had computers to assist them to make the flight easier for the pilots. However, I do not think it is a good idea when people decide to use unmanned aircraft in the future. I believe that computer can be helpful for pilots to fly the planes, but cannot be replaceable. I conducted an interview with <name>, and he noted that when the pilots rely too much on the computer, they will lose their flying skills, which will contribute to the disability of handling emergencies. Moreover, Reuters also claimed that, "When the computers are unable to perform their tasks, control is automatically handed to the pilots who must fall back on training and fly manually, in so-called "alternate" mode", so it is crucial for the pilots to maintain their flying skills to prepare for the any possible situations. 
One more reason why I think the pilots should not be replaced is that the computer cannot take the responsibility of hundreds of people's lives. I do not think there are many people who would like to give their lives to the machine. For some emergencies, for example, if the airplane gets hacked, and the person who hacks the airplane wants to go to another place for his/her purposes, but the computer can only follow the previous settings. Will the plane hacker do some crazy thing to threat the life of the passengers on board? No one knows, so the airlines cannot just hand hundreds of lives to the computer, because the computer will not think about people's lives and all the thing the it will do is follow the code and finish the flight. 
However, someone might say that computer should replace the pilots, because the computer is more accurate than people, and the task like flying a plane requires that kind of accuracy. While, I disagree with that opinion. First, I think the computers are man-made. They are not perfect and sometimes they still fail, like anyone's PC. Once the computers crashed, and there is no pilot on the plane, the chance of saving the people on board is nearly zero. What's more, it is possible that we can train the pilots more strictly to make them be accurate enough. When the pilots can be accurate like computers, the computers are only the tools to assist the pilots instead of the dominators of the plane. Consequently, the pilotless aircraft is surely not safe, and the computer is not always better than human, because human are able to act differently depend on different situations. 
In summary, I think the pilots should manipulate the airplane for the most of time, and they can use computer to assist them to analyze the statue of the airplane. Computer can do other jobs that people cannot do, for example, supervise all the equipment. The computer can detect every part of the aircraft to make sure that the airplane works perfectly. If there is anything wrong with the engines or any main part of the airplane, the computer will know it and send warnings to the pilots, and letting the pilots decide the next step. However, computer can never replace the pilots. For some other kind of airplanes, pilotless plane could be possible, like using drones for delivery, because it will not threat so many people's lives, but or commercial airplanes, it is irresponsible to let computer control the airplane, because pilots still need to maintain their flying skills to face different emergencies that the computer cannot deal with, and passengers need to be taken care of be human instead of computer. 
The safety of the airplane is significant, because it is related to almost everyone, and there are many other ways that can make the airplane safer. One way I think is pretty useful and important is to improve the quality of the pilots by training them more strictly. Meanwhile, replacing the pilots by computer is definitely detrimental for the safety of the commercial airplane. 
Reference 
Reuters, (2015, January 28). Computer glitch leading to pilot error may have caused Air Asia crash. Retrieved from: http://www.scmp.com/news/asia/article/1693965/airasia-crash-investigators-focus-possible-computer-glitch-may-have-led 
