P5d3_ae 
April 14, 2016 
Tragic Future of Clones Development 
	Growth of scientific field brought convenience in our lives; however, it also fetched devastation of humanity. Development of clones can bring tragic future based on physical, ethical, and social problems even though there are some advantages of development including medical benefits. Biologically, people define clone as a group of genetically identical cells descended from a single common ancestor or an organism descended asexually from a single ancestor. Developing a human clone is a one of the most popular issues in scientific field. With its development, we can expect to have benefits, for example, the expansion of medical treatment, but we cannot also disregard the disadvantages it will result. Thus, I dissent to develop a human clones. 
	If human clone is developed, confusion in the society will be the first outcome. People will be in social chaos to differentiate clone and its entity. Since clone has exactly the same genes with its entity, the security system developed currently such as voice recognition, iris recognition, and even fingerprint recognition cannot ban its clones to pass the security. This can result in crimes including larceny, robbery, and larceny. Clones can also pretend to be its entity after murdering its entity to deceive others. Especially, if this happens to the person in a high position such as Barack Obama, the president of United States, not only the whole country, but also the whole world will be in confusion. Thus, development of human clone will cause physical and social problems. 
	In addition, since clone can be made infinitely, vicious people would try to take organs or body parts out from the clones to sell. This can result in an anarchy and ethical problems, for example, the exploitation of body parts. Commercialization of embryo and stem cells will become more common as people harvesting embryo imprudently. Harris (1998) discussed that the wrong use of clones will happen usually when one needs financial supports. The imprudent people will exploit not only clones, but also the real people to take advantage of whatever they want to have. As exploiting embryos make more profits, selling embryos will become a new type of business and this will make them to exploit other body parts also. Eventually, it will threaten women who can be pregnant to be endangered from exploitation to provide embryos. 
Moreover, one of the most important social problem will happen. Wealthy people could regard people as substitute objects that can be reproduced or replaced by clones. Then, ranks will be emerged depends on one's wealth. For example, in a movie, 'Hunger Game,' people purchase poor people to make them to kill each other and watch it for their leisure. This social inequality would result in wealthy people and poor people to having extreme emotional hostility toward each other, which can cause an insurrection. Cruelty of human will become more serious and this will cause other possible problems not only ethically, but also physically. It is also possible for clones to have their own personality while they are experiencing harsh situations to kill each other. Then, the relationship between human and its clones will get more devastated. 
Besides, a good treatment after the death of clone is also very hard to find. We do not have any plans for clones. Although a clone can generate whatever they want, it is originally from a human. It is why killing a clone after its duty is a biggest issue to discuss before developing it. We need to respect human rights, but clone is not in the category of human and the border between human and its clone is quite obscure. Also, there are no current plans to treat the defective clone from failures such as a clone with six legs or three heads, and a clone having fifty years old physical ability but five years old mental ability. The treatments for its side effects are not prepared yet. Furthermore, if human clone can have their own identity and have negative feelings toward the real human, it is possible to result the collapse of the world and extinction of human as predicted in many scientific movies because they may have hostility toward human. 
To sum up, as previously mentioned, there are many possible ethical, physical and political problems by developing a human clone such as confusion in society, exploitation of human body, and unplanned rules for faulty clones. We are not ready to develop a clone, and if we develop one with plans of now, I can foresee to have more loss than gain that can result in a socially deprived and a tragic society. Even the problems that were not stated here could happen to make the world more tragic. Therefore, because developing a human clone have many defects for now, I disagree to develop a human clone. 
