Argumentative Essay 
12/11/2015 
An Argument for Genetically Modified Foods 
Genetic engineering is a field of technology that has just been discovered and applied recently. The application of genetic engineering technology has, however, already stirred up a lot of heated debate and controversy. Conflicting viewpoints on genetically modified (GM) foods regarding their safety and impacts on humans, animals and the environment might scare off uninformed consumers and give them a negative image of these foods. However, genetically modified foods should, in fact, not be feared and avoided, because of the tremendous benefits they bring to the society and the lack of scientific evidence that can prove any health dangers and disorders they brings to plants, animals, and humans. 
There are multiple reasons why people oppose to genetically modified foods, but the two main ones are usually related to human health and the environment. First, GM foods are accused of containing weird and harmful genes, chemicals and substances, thus causing a variety of health problems and disorders to their consumers, whether if it is human, animals or insects. Second, GM crops are believed by some to be contributing to environmental damages by contaminating the natural gene pool and increasing herbicide use. Some of these claims are not totally wrong, but they are, for the most part, inaccurate and not proven. 
First, the claim that these so called "Frankenfood" leads to cancers, autism, organ damage, gastrointestinal system disorders and so on is purely speculations that are not supported by any widely accepted scientific evidence. Anti-GMOs activists might argue back saying that there have been numerous studies showing correlation between health diseases and GMOs; however, most of those studies have been criticized for being flawed and biased. One of the studies that are often cited as evidence of GMO being unhealthy is Seralini's infamous rat experiment carried out by Gilles-Eric Seralini, a French molecular biologist, and his team in 2012. An article on Science-Based Medicine titled "The Seralini GMO Study - Retraction and Response to Critics" by Steven Novella summarized this study and what happened. In this study, for two year long, Seralini's team fed Sprague-Dawley rats genetically modified corn, and in the end, concluded that this diet was toxic and led to cancers and tumors in the rats. Their conclusion was criticized, because other scientists found many flaws and biases in the study's experimental design. According to Novella's article, Sprague-Dawley rats are very prone to tumors later in life, and two years is quite a long period of time for rats. The number of rats used for each experimental condition was too few, being only ten, while in statistics, you need at least thirty samples in any experiment for that experiment to be statistically significant. The article also mentioned that there was a lack of statistical analysis, which means comparison and analysis of the results between rats that were fed GM corns and rats not exposed to GMO. There was also no clear pattern in the survival curves for different groups of rats. Overall, the scientific community concluded that this study was not credible and inconclusive, and it was thus retracted by the journal Food and Chemical Toxicology, where it had been published. 
In contrast to the lack of credible and widely acknowledged scientific evidence proving the harm of GMOs, there have been thousands of studies, research papers and reports defending the safety of GM foods that got accepted by the scientific community. In a 2013 published article called "An Overview of the Last 10 Years of Genetically Engineered Crop Safety Research" in the highly regarded and peer-reviewed journal Critical Review of Biotechnology, 1,783 original research papers, reviews, relevant opinions and reports published during the last 10 years covering all the major issues of GM crop safety were collected and evaluated. Some main findings of this review were that, first, there is not a single credible study or paper that has proved that GM foods have detrimental effect on its consumers; second, DNA from GM crops cannot be transferred or incorporated into our DNA (which is one major accusation about GMO of anti-GMO groups); and finally, there is no evidence that approved GM products on the current market cause unique allergens or toxins. In conclusion, it seems that there is a widespread scientific agreement that genetically modified organism is safe and brings no harm to our health. 
As it turns out, the general public seems to be made up of more GMO opposers than GMO advocates. However, the scientific consensus on GMOs does not agree with these opposers. A study on science literacy done by Pew Research Center and released in January this year showed a striking difference between the percentage of US adults who think it is generally safe to eat genetically modified foods, 37%, and the percentage of scientists from the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) who think so, 88%. The AAAS, the World Health Organization (WHO), the American Medical Association (AMA), and the European Commission are some few examples among many other highly regarded and generally trusted sources of health and medical information that have stated that the genetically modified foods that are currently on the market are just as safe as conventional foods. The WHO says: "No effects on human health have been shown as a result of the consumption of such foods by the general population" ("Frequently asked questions on genetically modified foods."). The AMA states the same thing, that "there is no evidence that unique hazards exist either in the use of r DNA techniques or in the movement of genes between unrelated organisms" (H-480. 958 Bioengineered (Genetically Engineered) Crops and Foods"). The European Comission said, "the main conclusion to be drawn from the efforts of more than 130 research projects, covering a period of more than 25 years of research, and involving more than 500 independent research groups, is that biotechnology, and in particular GMOs, are not per se more risky than e.g. conventional plant breeding technologies" ("A decade of EU-funded GMO research"). If we trust these organizations' information about health diseases, drugs, vaccines, biology, then why do we not trust them on GMOs? Furthermore, an overwhelming majority of experts has defended the safety of genetically modified foods, and although we do not have to completely trust everything they say, isn't it rational to at least not conclude the exact opposite? 
The next big concern about GMOs is their bad impacts on the environment, more specifically, the risk that GM seeds contaminate the natural gene pool by escaping into the wild and the increase in herbicide use due to GMOs. First, it is true that "genetic pollution" can happen due to genetically modified crops. GM crops can be released to the environment and spread to wild natural crops; however, this occurs naturally all the time with non-GM crops as well. During the interview I had last month with <name> , <title> <department> at Purdue University, he said the same thing about this phenomenon, that one danger GM crops could bring is the possibility that "plants could escape". The concern here is that once the seeds gets out, once they are released to the environment, either deliberately or accidentally, there is no way to recall them, and they will reproduce and grow in the wild. Dr. <name> however, does not think that that is a big problem, because "genomes get changed all the time. You might think that a genome is something that is static, that doesn't ever change, but they change continuously, from generation from generation". Big environmental problem might arise if, for example, a drought resistant crop populates an area where people are farming dry, but the possibility of such coincidence happening is low. It is a possibility, but it is just not likely to happen, according to Dr. <name> . 
Second, it is also true that genetic engineering has encouraged an increase in herbicide use, but the herbicide that farmers have been using is mostly glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup. Most of the genetically modified crops that are planted now are Roundup Ready glyphosate resistant crops, and this leads to a dramatic increase in the use of glyphosate. However, many scientists have agreed that glyphosate is among the most environmentally safe herbicide on the market right now. <name> explained during our interview that the main reason for this is because of the pathway that glyphosate inhibits a plant. "We [humans] don't have that enzyme; we don't have that pathway in our biochemistry. Most of the toxicology studies indicate that glyphosate is among the safest herbicide. It has a good environmental profile; it doesn't get into ground water", he said. Therefore, although it is true that herbicide glyphosate use has increased dramatically, at least, it is a better choice for our health and our environment than other kinds of herbicide. 
However, this negative environmental impact due to increased herbicide use, when compared with the benefits GMOs have on the environment, is significantly less. According to a recent report on the environmental impacts from 1996 to 2012 of GM crops by Graham Brookes & Peter Barfoot, GMOs have significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions, pesticide spraying, increased yield gains, increased farmer's income, allowed land to be used more efficiently, among many other benefits. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which is equivalent to 27 billion kg of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, is due to the no till planting that GMOs encourage, which helps reducing soil erosion as well. Pesticide/ insecticide use is reduced by 503 million kg between the years 1996 and 2012. Dr. Wayne Parrott from the University of the Georgia's Department of Crop and Soil Sciences commented on this issue: "The reduction in the amount of herbicides used has not been as dramatic as the decrease in insecticide use, but the type of herbicides being used now are very different from those used in the past. They are much more environmentally friendly, so even if the amount has not changed much, the environmental impact has decreased significantly" ("Video: Are GM Crops Harming Our Environment?"). In addition, crop genetic engineering also brought about hundreds of million tons of additional crops. It was also reported that if not for crop biotechnology, farmers would need millions more hectare of field to maintain the global production levels now. It can't be denied that genetic engineering contributes greatly to the sustainability of food production. Because our population is growing, while our resources are running out, this technology is necessary for us right now. 
Another benefits of biotechnology is that it can develop crops with traits that are essential and useful to us, but cannot be achieved via conventional breeding, such as plants that require less fertilizer, plants that are resistant to drought, plants with higher yield, plants with more vitamins and nutrition, and so on. Dr. <name> brought up one example of such crop during my interview with him last month -rice. Rice uses C3 photosynthesis, which is what all plants use. Some plants such as maize have evolved an additional mechanisms called C4 photosynthesis, which is a much more efficient method, because it fixes more carbon for plants using the same amount of sunlight. Scientists are interested in trying to convert rice from a C3 plant to a C4 plant; being able to do this can increase rice yield by about 50%, Dr. <name> explained. Although right now, scientists do not know how to do this yet, the professor believed that with biotechnology and genetic engineering, they might be able to do that in the future. According to Dr. <name> now, fifty, sixty years after the Green Revolution, rice yield has begun to plateau, and finding ways to increase it is getting more difficult. "There are limits to what you can do using conventional plant breeding. [Genetic engineering and biotechnology] might provide ways to move beyond those limits", Dr. <name> said. 
Many studies have been conducted to assess the safety of genetically modified foods, and the majority of modern scientific literature has concluded that the GM foods we have on the market right now and the biotechnology to produce them is safe. On the other hand, claims of their detrimental effects have mostly been found to be without merit and rejected by the scientific community. Not only has GMO crops been proved to be safe, the benefits they bring to the environment, farmers, the food production industry and humans have been recognized. The fact that there are still gaps in our knowledge about genetic engineering and biotechnology does not mean we should stop using these technologies. We do not know everything that can happen when we drive a car, when we use cell phone, or when we fly an airplane either. Science and technology are changing tremendously day by day. There are things we can do today that were unimaginable just forty years ago. There are needs for this technology now, and we might not be able to imagine what we can do for humanity using this type of technology in the future. 
Citations 
A decade of EU-funded GMO research. European Commission Directorate-General for Research. Retrieved from https://ec.europa.eu/research/biosociety/pdf/a_decade_of_eu-funded_gmo_research.pdf 
Frequently asked questions on genetically modified foods. World Health Organization. Retrieved from http://www.who.int/foodsafety/areas_work/food-technology/faq-genetically-modified-food/en/ 
Funk, C. (2015, January 29). 5 key findings on what Americans and scientists think about science. Pew Research Center. Retrieved from http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/01/29/5-key-findings-science/ 
GM crop use continues to benefit the environment and farmers. (2014, May 6). PG Economics. Retrieved from http://www.pgeconomics.co.uk/page/36/-gm-crop-use-continues-to-benefit-the-environment-and-farmers 
H-480. 958 Bioengineered (Genetically Engineered) Crops and Foods. American Medical Association. Retrieved from https://www.ama-assn.org/ssl3/ecomm/Policy Finder Form.pl?site=www.ama-assn.org&uri=/resources/html/Policy Finder/policyfiles/Hn E/H-480.958.HTM 
Nicolia, A., Manzo, A., Veronesi, F., Rosellini, D. (2013, September 13). An overview of the last 10 years of genetically engineered crop safety research. Critical Review of Biotechnology, 34:1, 77-88. Retrieved from http://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Nicolia-20131.pdf 
Novella, S. (2013, December 4). The Seralini GMO Study -Retraction and Response to Critics. Science-Base Medicine. Retrieved from https://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/the-seralini-gmo-study-retraction-and-response-to-critics/ 
Palmer, R. (2013, March 30). GMO Health Risks: What The Scientific Evidence Says. International Business Times. Retrieved from http://www.ibtimes.com/gmo-health-risks-what-scientific-evidence-says-1161099 
Video: Are GM Crops Harming Our Environment? (2012, October 12). Best food Facts. Retrieved from http://www.bestfoodfacts.org/food-for-thought/gmcropsbadforenvironment 
