P5D1 
11/17/2015 
Youth Internet Regulation 
	Internet is a meaningful product of technology development, as well as a considerable sign of information era. The internet has provided us with unaccountable convenience such as email, online chatting, e-education, online shopping and so forth. On the other hand, it also causes many social problems, especially about youth education. And so, the internet has become a virus in the perspective of parents and teachers. It not only alters people's ways of life, but brings a huge impact on traditional views. Nevertheless, as a teenager who grow up in this circumstance, I still believe that internet has more advantages than negative impacts towards people, especially for youth. 
	The first reason to support my point of view is that the internet offers better channels for teens to gain more information. Many students have the habit to look up useful information online to widen their vision. This is not only for the assignment that the teachers give, but for the students' own interests. Nowadays, students have a wide range of focus more than any other generations, and the traditional media cannot satisfy their desire of knowledge anymore. In the previous research "Teens, Social Media & Technology Overview 2015", about 71% of teens use Facebook, 33% of teens use Twitter, and the same number of teens use Google search. These platforms make sure the students to understand more unknown domains. 
	The second reason is that the internet gives youth opportunities to learn school courses and extra curriculum, and the best example is e-education, which is also known as distance learning. Students can make the timetables which fit their own schedule; it can be really flexible because the pressure of rushing between classes would be zero. In addition, students are more concentrate when they learn online. The teachers cannot take care of everyone in the big classes, sometimes the youth do not pay attention. Also it can be really time-saving. I know a 12-year-old girl who loves dancing, and she is attending school online. Her ballet classes are very random, and it takes almost all of her time in the day. She wants to be professional. Distance learning helps her with both ballet practice and school material requirements. Students can share their experience and study methods through online. It would be beneficial for the rest of teens' lives. 
	The third reason is that it helps youth to improve their skills. The computers are thesaurus. The usage of computers has become a new requirement in the 21st century. Human's dependence on internet has increasingly grew and it is now one of the most important elements that teenagers are supposed to master. Recall the interview with <name>. She mentions that her son can help her with computer problems and he is really good at it. It could be beneficial interesting for the parents to have the children who know how to fix the computer and provide help whenever they do not understand. 
	However, many people argue that the using of internet can waste children's time. I know it can be a time-consuming thing is the youth do not manage their time properly and set up priorities, but what they need is the correct lead of the adults. Banning computers completely is impossible. Moreover, there are many other time-wasting thing in people's life, but some parents and experts only target the internet, which is not fair. Secondary, some people say that it has changed the way of communication among the teenagers. It is not necessarily a bad thing. Instead of talking face to face, communicating online would save much more time. Group chat and group facetime give people chances to see each other anytime they want. 
	"The internet is becoming the town square for the global village of tomorrow." Says Bill Gates, the well-known American magnate, investor, computer programmer, and inventor. Everything has two sides typically. However, in summary, internet has more advantages than disadvantages, especially for this era. As long as the relative department enhance the management of internet, and parents lead their children onto the correct path, the negative sides will definitely minimized. 
