Why Can't We Achieve Gender Equality in the Korean Workplace? 
Abstract 
This paper argues why gender equality in the Korean workplace is hard to achieve by giving societal norms and biological differences as the leading factors that hinder achieving equality. The paper analyzes the statistical trends of average number of male and female workers, different types of jobs and salaries that impact the imbalance in the workplace of men and women. Biological factors, such as pregnancy, can affect the social norms to be unfair to women in the workplace. 
Why Can't We Achieve Gender Equality in Korean Workplace? 
Introduction 
The World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Index of 2014 ranked Korea 117th out of 142 countries. This drastic ranking of gender equality in Korea seems almost impossible considering the fact that Korea is a developed country. Furthermore, most of the countries that are ranked above Korea are countries that are generally considered to be developing, such as India, Qatar, and United Arab Emirates, which show how gender inequality in Korea does not match the overall economic status. This ranking led me to focus on the gender equality of Korea and the possibility of achieving equality. 
According to Chang (2011), during the late 1980's in Korea, women earned 52% less hourly wage than men. This massive gap between the two genders was caused by the lack of education: both the lack of college degrees and general education. It is inevitable that since most women were expected to take care of the household, not much women were sent to college. Therefore, fewer women were hired for a job than men. Furthermore, since women did not receive as much education as men, most women qualified for jobs that had lower income than that of men. 
I believe that this is an important topic because gender inequality is not just a problem that affects few people. Gender inequality is a worldwide social problem that needs to be mitigated, although I believe that gender equality in the Korean workplace is very hard to achieve due to the social norms of men and women. 
Argument 
One of the obstacles in achieving gender equality in Korea is that women were kept out of the workplace due to household work from the past, and the social norm has been set to hinder women from working. According to a survey conducted in 2000, the ratio of male and female in the workplace differed to approximately 74% to 49%. Among the 51% of unemployed women, 34.3% of women have to take care of the household, whereas only 2.2% of men are not in a working environment for the same reason. Through the statistical values, we can see that there is a large difference in number between the two genders. According to figure 1, which shows the age of both genders that is in a workplace, we can see that as the age gets closer to the marriageable age, less women tend to work outside (Cho, 2004). Such trend is caused by the societal norm that women must be in charge of the household when they get married. Due to such norm, there are fewer women in the Korean working environment that can contribute to the average income of women, which consequently lowers the women's average income. Since it is extremely difficult to change the societal norm, I believe that achieving equality in the workplace is nearly impossible. 
Figure 1 Illustration of gender ratio in the workplace by age 
In addition to the general number of male and female workers, there is also difference within the social trend of women that affects women's average income, which further hinders achieving equality. Cho (2011) states that educated women tend to work less than less educated women. The labor force participation rate (LFPR) indicates that there is approximately 20% difference of rate between women with college degree and women with high school degree or less that gets a job. However, the LFPR shows that the number of working women with college degrees shows a decreasing trend as they age. For example, approximately 75% of women in their 20's work, but as they reach their 30's, the number drops approximately by 20%. From then, the rate drops constantly as the women age. On the other hand, the rate of working women with high school degrees or less tend to grow until they reach their 50's. For example, about 50% of women work in their 20's and 30's, but the rate jumps to about 65% in their 40's, and finally drops back to about 50% in their 50's. Such tendency has massive impact on the women's average income since women with higher educational degrees tend to get jobs with higher incomes, but they do not work as much as women with lower education degrees. This social trend lowers the average income and increases the pay gap between men and women, which further heightens the inequality. 
In addition to the number of women workers in the Korean society, the quality of jobs for most men and women also prevents achieving gender equality. According to Shin (2003), there are high differences in the positions that men and women achieve. For example, a survey done in 1999 shows that for occupations such as executive manager and professional technician, which tend to have higher salaries, males are dominant in such fields by 6.4% more and 10.4% more respectively. On the other hand, women tend to be dominant in occupations such as clerical and service sale, which tend to have lower salaries, by 21.5% and 8.2% more than men. Such data shows that male are much more dominant in higher paying occupations than females, which affects the general pay gap differences. 
Furthermore, the biological differences hinder achieving equality among the workplace as well. According to Salihu (2012), regular physical activities such as working long hours, late night shift, standing still, etc. have a minor negative impact on the woman's body, but stress caused by such activities negatively impact the body and the baby. Although stress affects both men and women, it can be fatal to pregnant women, since stress can cause deformation in the baby. Therefore, fewer women are encouraged to work during pregnancy, leading to greater inequality in the workplace. 
In addition to the effect of pregnancy on the working environment for women, being pregnant hinders women from getting higher positions in jobs. According to Professor <name>, winner of the Helen Schleman Award and the Violet Hass Award for service to women, expresses similar reasons why gender equality cannot be achieved. "They [women] are more likely to work a while, drop out, get married, get children, come back in, drop out again, take care of an elderly parent,[and] come back in." As such, women's career routes tend to be very infrequent, due to their biological obligations, thus hindering them from working as much as men. Since women tend to work less than men, it is harder for women to be promoted and have higher position, which usually leads to higher income. Therefore, the average income of women is not as high as that of men. In addition, because of such companies tend to hire fewer women due to such infrequent amount of work that women do. 
Opposition 
Although I believe that gender equality would be nearly impossible to attain, others may believe that gender equality can be achieved through social changes. For example, a Forbes article written by Warrell (2015) mentions "Debora Spar, the president of Barnard College and host of the annual Global women's leadership Symposium." According to Warrell, Spar asserts the need to "reframe the question from 'Can women have it all?' to 'How can we support women in being more successful at whatever choice they decide to make?'" Spar states that the four things that are hindering women from achieving equality are sexism, workplace flexibility, affordable quality childcare, and social norm. For all these four topics, the author states that although the situation has been getting better, it is still not enough to reach the ultimate equality for men and women. Furthermore, she shows the need of change in the women's behavior itself to amend to difference. Although the article supports the achievability of gender equality, the writer asserts that the social changes have been insufficient to make social changes that can lead to equality. 
Conclusion 
Emma Watson, an actress and the UN Women Goodwill Ambassador, expressed her opinion on gender inequality during the international women's day: "At current rates, no, it's not possible to achieve gender equality" (Oshmyansky, 2015). Although this paper is only about Korea, I believe that this statement applies to all the countries in the world. Despite the rapid social changes that allow women to have more rights than before, it is still insufficient to change the world. However, it is not to say that since its impossible, we should cease the effort in achieving equality. Although it may seem almost impossible, we should develop new ways and evolve our society to a better and more equal civilization. 
