Eng 106i 
Assignment 4, Draft 3 
4/23/2016 
Tax Reform Plan: Yes or No? 
	Brother Yun, an excited Chinese church leader who was an instrumental leader in the development of church community in China once said, "You don't need miracles in the west. You have insurance." From this adage, it clearly illustrates that in this era of modernization, insurance plays an essential role in our daily life. People are gradually gaining awareness of the importance of insurance and would spend thousands of dollars on various insurance policies annually. As regards of seeking protection, insurance companies also obtain protection from reinsurance companies in order to spread their monetary risk and limit total loss if there is any catastrophic disaster (Merkel, 2008). Recently, President Barack Obama had continued to propose the tax reform plan to domestic insurance and reinsurance companies that form foreign subsidiaries and this proposed plan had eventually stirred up a vigorous dispute among the Republican-controlled Congress (a representative voice for the insurance's sector) and the government (Kent, 2016). By speculating the standpoints of both sides, a question arises, should the government implement the tax reform plan? No! The implementation of tax reform plan actually brings negative effect towards the nation and local insurance and reinsurance companies. 
	According to President Barack Obama's proposal on the implementation of the tax reform plan, it is advantageous in catalyzing the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) and the revenue growth of the nation. The president projected to generate $411 million in 2017 and foresee to raise $2. 6 trillion in the next 10 years (Kent, 2016). In general, it was indeed a brilliant plan as this tax reform plan will ensure a constructive development for the nation instantaneously. But, in the long run, it will eventually generate a negative growth in the overall nation's economy. It is because in the insurance sector, the ultimate user of insurance service is domestic capital and the property and casualty insurance play an essential role of capital investment in the economy (Cole, 2015). Hence, if the tax reform plan is enforced on the insurance companies, it will deliberately induce a consequential cost in the overall economy. This cost is depicted through an economy shirk as the Join Committee of Taxation did not include the negative dynamic fluctuation of lower capital stock and labor productivity (Cole, 2015). In addition, most of the capital stock's savers will also devote their money to the tax payment. After combining both of the factors above, it will results in a decrease of 3.0% of the nation's GDP and revenue (Cole, 2015). As an evidence, Figure 1 is a graph from Tax Foundation that presents the graph of comparison between the initial projected GDP and the new GDP after implementation the tax reform plan (Entin, 2015). 
Figure 1. Projected GDP under current tax law vs. President Obama proposed tax plan. From Tax Foundation, retrieved from http://taxfoundation.org/article/dynamic-analysis-president-obama-s-tax-initiatives. 
Figure 1 clearly exhibits the difference of 3.0% on the nation's GDP after implementing the corporate tax on companies towards the nation in the long-run. Thus, by considering the negative effect generated towards the nation's GDP later on, it is a wise act to deter the tax reform plan abruptly. 
	Apart from the negative aftermath of the plan in the nation's economy, it is indeed a fair treatment to all the domestic insurance and reinsurance companies. It is very effective in preventing large scaled companies from avoiding paying tax by transferring their income to their foreign affiliates as overseas companies are not subjected to US tax law (President Obama's, n.d.). Likewise, it is also a potent in reducing the disparity of profit earning among all the domestic companies regardless of their size (Maag, Nunns, Toder & Williams, 2014). Conversely, it is a constructive move for the companies to oppose the proposal of implementation of the tax reform plan as it has violated the rule of obligation of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) of the World Trade Organization (WTO) (Lehmann, 2015). In general, GATS is an agreement that provides a platform of liberalization and transparency for developing countries to conduct trading services globally (Chadha, 2001). It has been a comprehensive way to increase a nation's earning in the past decade. For instance, the estimation of cross-border trading defined by GATS is $2. 2 trillion, which is also about 7.6% of the GDP and the total trade in the world (Sauve & Stern, 2000). Without doubt, the statistics depicts the weight of global trading in a developing country. Accordingly, due to the tax implementation, it will deliberately affect global trading as domestic insurance and reinsurance companies will reduce their business affiliation with foreign subsidiaries. This definitely violates the obligation of GATS of promoting cross-border trading in a developing country. Also, this is an ironic decision as US was part of the signatory that agreed in adopting international trading. This reflects a contrary standpoint of the government in handling cross-border trading (Lehmann, 2015). Therefore, the opposition of the tax reform plan is highly encouraged to prevent the violation of obligation of GATS. 
	Likewise, besides considering the fact of the violation of WTO's trade regulation, the enforcement of tax will also hike up the burden of the consumer in the United States overall. According to the interview with Professor Jeff Beckley, the tax reform plan is a constructive plan as companies will absorb most of the drawbacks as they are subjected to tax rather than the consumers as most of the Americans do not own an insurance policy. He mentioned that the consumer will not be the major victim and he encouraged the implementation of the plan (personal communication, February 23, 2016). Contrarily, if this issue is observed in a larger context, it will actually affect the consumer on the price of purchasing insurance policies. It is because the enforcement of tax will eventually cap the US insurance capacity and increase the premium of the insurance policies. In the future, this plan will result in a difference of $2 billion (initial of $11 billion to $13 billion) for the same coverage of insurance policy (Sanders, 2016). As can be seen from those numbers, related authorities from the insurance sector should spur up the opposition of the tax reform plan in order to cutback the unnecessary financial pressure transferred to the consumers. 
	Ultimately, the proposal of tax reform plan towards the domestic insurance and reinsurance companies which form foreign affiliates is labeled as a 'double-edge sword' issue. As a whole, this tax reform plan eventually generates deterioration of the nation's economy, violation of regulation and increment of the consumers' burden. However, from the evaluation and analysis above, the negative drawbacks of the plan actually dominates the advantages engendered from the plan. Henceforth, prior to the final decision, authorities from the government and insurance sectors should conduct thorough evaluations and discussions of the overview pros and cons of the implementation of the tax reform plan. The authorities should be extremely cautious and tactful when abiding the final decision as this significant accord will studiously create a momentous ramification to the citizens, companies and the nation overall. 
Reference 
Chadha, R. (2001). GATS and developing countries: A case study in India. Citeseerx, 1-5. Retrieved from http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.196.8938. 
Cole, A. (2015). Incorrectly Defining Business Income: The Proposal to Eliminate the Deductibility of Foreign Reinsurance Premiums. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://taxfoundation.org/article/incorrectly-defining-business-income-proposal-eliminate-deductibility-foreign-reinsurance-premiums 
Entin, S. J. (2015). A dynamic analysis of president Obama's tax initiatives. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://taxfoundation.org/article/dynamic-analysis-president-obama-s-tax-initiatives 
Kent, J. (2016, February 10). Obama tax plan targets reinsurers. The Royal Gazette: Bermuda 
		Re-Insurance. Retrieved February 12, 2016, from 
		http://www.royalgazette.com/article/20160210/BUSINESS04/160219998 
Lehmann, R. (2015, May 19). Keep protectionist reinsurance tax out of tax reform. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.insurancejournal.com/blogs/right-street/2015/05/19/368692.htm 
Maag, E., Nunns, J., Toder, E., Williams, R., & Center, U. B. T. P. (2014). Analysis of specific tax provisions in President Obama's FY2015 budget. Washington, DC: Urban Institute and Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center. Retrieved from http://tpcprod.urban.org/Uploaded PDF/413168-analysis-of-2015-budget.pdf 
Merkel, S. (2008). What is reinsurance? Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/08/reinsurance.asp 
President Obama's International Tax Reform Proposals. (2009). Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www3.cbiz.com/tofias/page.asp?pid=7797 
Quotes About Insurance. (n.d.). Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/tag/insurance 
Sanders, L. (2016). Taxpayer advocates and industry to Congress: Oppose the president's proposal to alter reinsurance tax provisions. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.rstreet.org/outreach/taxpayer-advocates-and-industry-to-congress-oppose-the-presidents-proposal-to-alter-reinsurance-tax-provisions/ 
Sauve , P., & Stern, R. M. (2000). GATS 2000: New directions in services trade liberalization. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press. 
1 
Tax Reform Plan: Yes or No? 
