Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
28 Nov 2015 
"Unsafe" Child Acting May Lead To Precarious Future 
Nowadays whenever I go outside or even in my own room I could sense the chillness and see the breath from my mouth. Neighbors start to garnish their houses with fancy glittering ornaments and at shopping malls I could see each and every one purchasing elegant well shaped trees. Sooner or later, it's Christmas. At this time of the year, at Korea the movie "Home Alone" from all series is shown on TV despite its antiqueness. And I, too always recall my memories as a young child growing up with Kevin Mc Callister, a young bright boy who bravely defends his house from two burglars. However, it is now hard to see Macaulay Culkin on either film or on television, a child actor who played Mc Callister. Culkin after gaining excessive fame and love from the public has turned into a drug and alcohol addict. It is as an audience point of view such a shame to see child actors who grew up with me to implode and failing to become a successful adult. Macaulay Culkin is not the only victim, but also notable child stars such as Amanda Baines and Lindsay Lohan are all child actors who failed to transit to an adult actor. In this research paper, I will be addressing the negative effects of being a child actor and it will be composed into four different parts: how child actors are highly exposed to drugs, problems that develop in early childhood, extreme work from parents, and a view point from the opposing side. 
	<name>, who is a <position> at Purdue University, said that "Staying in public eye, even adults, and the amount of anxiety celebrities feel is astronomical." <name> was also once a child actor and she started acting when she was three years old. <name> added on by saying that especially with smart phones and advanced technologies, celebrities have hard time going out in public without being photographed or recognized. Child actors may look for drugs and alcohols as a mean to escape from anxiety. Also it is a fact that these children are greatly vulnerable and open to such drugs, alcohols and sex. Since child actors majorly work with adults and some films contain inappropriate materials, Natalie Portman from the movie "Leon" was exposed to heavy violence, sex, drugs and alcohol. From the article, "Why Child Stars Melt Down" published by The Atlantic, author Olga Khazan, cites a psychologist Donna Rockwell who explained how many celebrities' fame dawned overnight rather than gradually. Justin Bieber, for instance unexpectedly gained fame from his Youtube video, where Rockwell elucidates his recent acts: "Many stars feel a sudden crush of isolation, mistrust, and lack of personal privacy. The person develops a kind of character-splitting between the 'celebrity self' and the 'authentic self.'" 
	Also, embracing the fact that child actors may be as young as a five year old or even younger, it is hard to think that it was the child's own decision to become an actor himself/herself. Then who is in charge of these judgements? Yes. It's the parents. Former child actor Mara Wilson who's most famous for Mrs. Doubtfire and Miracle on 34th Street talked about in one interview that she was one of the few lucky child actors who also really liked and wanted what she was doing; however, for some child actors it were not the case. Wilson added on arguing that there are parents who want to gain fame and money throughout their own children. Moreover, by becoming a child actor, he/she won't be able to have a great education. Due to their busy schedule the child would have to miss out most of the classes resulting in bad grades. 
	However, some social commentators argue that there is nothing to worry about child actor's education since most of these children are homeschooled by their parents. Also, even though they attend school, nowadays, directors ask teachers and school to excuse the child from any heavy workloads or perhaps delay the school project. <name> talked about her latest play The Betty's Diner where there was a child actor involved; the director had him work on his homework when he was waiting for his scene. 
Although this may be true, I think that "school" is not just a place where a child attends to hand in his work on time. Even thinking back from my own personal childhood, "school" was more of a place where I learned to make friends and socialize with friends who are my aged. Of course child actors would be socializing with people, but people who are twenty, thirty years older than them. Would this have a positive effect on the child? One of the reasons why child stars fall into as drug and alcohol addicts is because most of them do not have people who they can call "friends." Companions from work would be pretty much it, but a friend who can truly understand and help them would lack. 
	Not only are there parents who make their children an actor for their own sake, the amount of work a child actor's parent should do and follow are outrageous. Both <name> and Wilson stressed the importance of the parent's role. Since 'rejection' is the name of the game in theatre and films it is very important for the parents to make their child have a healthy mind and support them. However, some parents would just blame the child for not getting the role. In addition, as child actors are under age to drive it is the parent's role to drive their children to auditions and rehearsals. They also are in charge of preparing the child for auditions and at the same time, keeping up with r sum and searching for auditions. Most importantly it also costs a lot of money. So, if the parent is not truthfully engaged and just hoping the child to be famous one day, I can admit it is almost impossible to take care of the child in a safe and healthy environment. <name> even compared the parent's role as a "job." Due to excessive amount of work and duty the parents have to do, there are increasing amount of parents who halts the child's career, leaving them back to "ordinary life." However, it's too late - the child will face problems making friends and socializing and since they won't have much basics of studying they will fail in classes. 
Becoming a child actor is a very arduous job, it is not hundred percent guaranteed yet requires a lot of money, effort and time. Also even though a child may have grown into a star actor, he/she will face numerous problems. They will be vulnerable to drugs, alcohol and sex and with the developed technologies child stars' privacy would be infringed which leads to stress and drugs. Also, since they are starting a job, a career in an early age, it is questionable to ask if it is truly the child who hopes to become the child actor. Without being able to go to school they will have hard times making friends and socializing. Lastly, the roles of the parents are enormous which may cause the parent to give up on their child's acting career. 
	After, researching and interviewing an expert on this topic for months, I have concluded that to avoid becoming a child actor is more realistic and safe way. However, I do believe that there is no right or wrong answer, and it all may apply differently based on the child and the parent. I have no rights to argue that it is bad to start acting when he/she is a child, but I want to warn people or future child actors and parents about the risk that may arise. 
| 
