Argumentative Essay 
	Throughout history, music has had an impact on the human race. Influenced by the political or military struggles, many musical prodigies have set a cornerstone for the standards of music. Recently, people became aware about the implications of listening and learning to play music. Several schools acknowledge multiple of these benefits (Bachelors Degree, 2011) and already offer music as a non-mandatory elective, but this is sometimes not taken too seriously as it is seen as a non-important class. There is a wide scope of benefits which leads us to face a controversial problem. Should we change our education system to enforce including music in our lives? This includes taking music classes in school, and therefore adopting a new lifestyle. 
	Firstly, it would be convenient to implement healthy musical habits as infants because it is much easier to establish a specific lifestyle when we are young. As pointed out by Moreno et al. (2009), brain plasticity is much more likely to change as an infant. Brainfacts.org defines brain plasticity as "the extraordinary ability of the brain to modify its own structure and function following changes within the body or in the external environment." This implies that it is much easier to form healthy habits by implementing changes to the education system. Taking a full advantage of this statement would include adding a strict musical routine to young students in order to boost their cognitive performance. Results from Moreno's study show that there were improvements in reading and in pitch discrimination which in turn lead to believe that music training may have a positive correlation with phonological abilities. The findings in this study can provide evidence on the fact that infants' brain plasticity is can be affected by musical stimulation. Wan & Schlaug's (2010) findings also support my statement saying that music stimulates the brain's functions and promotes brain plasticity. 
	Additionally, music is also believed to have an impact on the human body's physiological performance. According to dictionary.com, physiology can be defined as "the branch of biology dealing with the functions and activities of living organisms and their parts, including all physical and chemical processes." Studies conducted by Hallam (2010) and Macone (2006) reference various effects to listening to music when doing physical activities. In Hallam's study, there were performance enhancements of listening to music when taking part on a physical activity. The study reveals that students who listened to rhythmic music when jumping, skipping and leaping demonstrated higher performance than their peers who did not listen to music at all. The report by Hallam also points out that singing can cause improvements in the biological immune system. The study mentions that singing can trigger an increase in the antibody salivary immunoglobulin in mucus membranes which play a critical role in our immune system. The evidence provided in Hallam's report indicates numerous health benefits to music and thus adding to the subject of my claim. 
	Furthermore, music is also believed to make people smarter. A study conducted by Schellenberg (2005) reveals that people who are involved in musical lessons and practice making music regularly can improve their cognitive skills. Cognition is defined by the Oxford dictionary as "the mental action or processes of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses." Cognitive skills include thinking, learning, memory, reasoning, and attention. In the study, 6-year old children took part in musical lessons for a 36-week period. The study showed that those who took part in the musical lessons showed increased performance in IQ tests. In his report, Schellenberg provides evidence of a correlation between music education and enhanced intelligence. This evidence is useful to support my claim that students will not only receive health or physical benefits, but also intellectual advantages. 
	 Although incorporating music to our daily lives may seem like an appealing idea, there are some counter-effects that this may bring. A study by Banez (1990) indicates that young children are exposed to multiple daily stressful events which are linked to both parents' daily hassles and concerns. Therefore, adding an additional music class to a students already busy schedule may negatively affect their mood and performance by increasing the amount of stress they have to cope with already. Nonetheless, it is known that music can serve as therapy and have a direct effect on mood and stress as pointed out by Kemper (2005). As pointed out in his study, he revealed that music can prove comfort and relieve the sensation of pain, reduce stress and help alleviate mood swings. This proves that even though students would have to sacrifice their time for another school subject, it would be beneficial for them due to the benefits already listed above. 
	In conclusion, making music a part of our life would provide health, psychological, and cognitive benefits to students and other people. It has been proved by multiple studies that music indeed has a positive impact on one's wellbeing. It is imperative that people who crave for a better lifestyle start taking advantages of these benefits. 
