Argumentative Essay Reversed Draft 
May 2nd , 2016/5/2 
Gender Inequality: Take It Serious 
Whether the current condition of gender inequality is critical has always been a controversy subject. On one hand, Dr. <name> , a long-term economics professor at Purdue University once mentioned, current situation is not a result of gender prejudice but a result of culture environment, thus, people are probably over thinking about gender issue. On the other hand, many economists and socialists hold the view that females are facing a tough situation. For example, Corsetti (2015) presents that females contributed to the society largely but are not getting even close enough credit for their contribution. Based on my experiences and background, I argue that gender inequality is a serious issue since females are facing gender payment gap and discriminations. Evidence from exiting publications will be used to support my argument. 
The objective condition for gender equality is tough. The gender equality problem has never been solved as some people might believe. The reality depicts that females are still facing gender inequality even in professional fields. One of the examples is the gender payment gap. According to Corsetti (2015), women's labor force participation has risen by more than 25% in past thirty years. Yet professional women are still facing 18.8% lower payment. The reason why there was a payment gap between genders is that females were supposed to and had to sacrifice for their family. The inequality in occupation can produce $15,000 per year, $700,000 for a human-life payment gap. As a result, females are more likely to suffer from poverty after retirement. Apparently, females who are hired by companies and other organizations are facing inequality. On the other hand, females chose to do individual business cannot avoid gender inequality either. Noseleit (2014) discovered that children play important roles in decision making of females in small businesses. As in the traditional thinking, it is hard to recognize whether a female chooses to start her own business is for business success or flexibility for family care. Due to the stereotype of females concern more about taking care of their family, females are less likely to receive loans and other products such as governmental funds and business privileges, which lead to a discouraging condition for females in small businesses. Therefore, females have to put more energy to balance between family and work, thus, creating an exhausting environment in both home and work. The gender discriminating environment cannot be ignored. It not only exists but also affects every female in the labor force. 
To be coupled with, the subjective conditions are not easier for females. The built-up thoughts in females mind created very difficult inner situation for females. Even though females are trying to conserve their family as much as they can, the result cannot turn out as expected, which has been exhaustively explained by Fernandez and Wong (2014). Fernandez and Wong (2014) presented family and wage structures as two key features that contribute to changes in women's labor force participation. The instability of family would result in an apparent increase in women's labor force participation and saving rate. While facing conflicts with their partners, females would pay attention to their jobs and increase their savings. The reason why divorce risk would result in the changes in LFP and wage structure is that females are automatically trying to protect themselves from poverty. Also, the data depicts that males would decrease their savings while facing instable marriage. Therefore, females' behavior is also an expression of seeking for stable marriage savings. This point is called a "compromise" by Fernandez and Wong (2014, p321). At this point, females make more compromises to enforce relation stability while males make almost no changes. This is obviously driven by females' culture background growing up. Females evaluate marriage more than males, thus, lead to a tough mental condition in side of females. 
As a female, I would be glad if people have achieved gender equality, but the reality demonstrates that the condition of gender inequality is still critical. Currently, both subjective and objective conditions are critical for females, especially for females in labor force. However, the perfectly equal gender status Dr. <name> introduced is a target of gender equality. In order to gain gender equality, I would appeal all the females to group together for this goal. Gender equality is not only a healthy working environment, but also a part of perfect living condition. 
