Hard Rock's Negative Effects Outweigh Positive Effects 
Purdue University 
Hard Rock's Negative Effects Outweigh Positive Effects 
Introduction 
Music is accepted to be a kind of language that connects people's feelings and gives us some insights about life, let alone to mention hard rock music, which delivers strong emotions with a heavy use of aggressive guitars and drums. However, everything has its two sides. Although hard rock music can make people energetic and give them strength and power, it does bring many negative effects to our life. For example people feel anxious and have headaches because of the loudness and noise. And some lyrics contain violent and sexual information that has profound influence on the young. As far as I am concerned, hard rock's negative effects actually outweigh its positive effects. So I think it is very important to make people fully understand this type of music. In this argument paper, I will talk about some points I've known from published materials to give readers a whole picture of what both sides' effects hard rock music brings to us and which side influences us more. To be more convincing, I will talk about the viewpoints of <name> , the expert in rock music that I've interviewed with, to prove my own position. 
Since hard rock music is so popular nowadays, it must have something that attracts us and brings some positive influences on our life. Susan Mc Cammon (n. d.) analyzes four positive effects of hard rock music. First of all, hard rock music talks about problems teens are suffering so that they can find out hope and encouragement by listening to this kind of music. Second, hard rock music has the ability to regulate people's mood, which is one of the most important reasons why people would like to listen to hard rock music. As is often the case, people use this type of music to improve their blue mood. Then Susan talks about the strong and fast beats of hard rock music. Those two characteristics can enhance the learning environment and make people more energetic. Moreover, when people are doing exercises while they are also listening to hard rock music, it is more easily for them to find the rhythm and tempo. The last positive influence the author points out is about identification. People can find out groups that have the same taste of music with themselves, which is helpful to their social and environmental development. 
However, in my opinion, those positive influences don't make sense because we can find more convincing negative effects to counter them. For example, many hard rock music talks about social problems in aggressive ways and many singers use this type of music to show their anger and dissatisfaction. Therefore, with an experiment, Atkin et al (2002) pointed out that instead of gaining hope and encouragement, teenagers are actually exposed to violent and sexual scenes and what they really learn are some explicit languages. And also researchers in University of Missouri found out that teens who like hard rock music would have more reckless behaviors. Then about the effect of mood regulation. It is true that hard rock music works well if people listen to it for the purpose of improving their mood. However, according to Nicholas and Dibben (2001), there exist a lot of violent and aggressive acts in almost all hard rock music. Therefore, for those who don't tend to listen to hard rock music, a brief exposure to it will change one person's emotion negatively. Moreover, we admit that hard rock music can make people energetic and create an active atmosphere. Nevertheless, it also has potential physical damage to our body. For example, three researchers, Henderson, Crews, and Barlow did a study in 1945 and found that hard rock can weaken our comprehensive ability; an Australian physician and psychiatrist, Dr. John Diamond, concluded from a research that hard rock can even weaken our muscle and destroy the symmetry between our cerebral hemispheres, causing problems in children's behavior and lessening our work performance. And also, <name> , the expert I interviewed with, told me that many of his friends don't like hard rock music because they are not physically suitable for this type of music and they will get anxiety because the drums and guitars are too loud of them. The last thing to counter is the positive effect about identification. It is a good thing to find a place where we belong to. Nonetheless, a study conducted by American Psychological Association (2002) showed that most hard rock singers want to be more unique to fit into some groups so that they will choose drugs and sex, which actually do harm. 
Besides all those negative effects mentioned above, there are still some others bad influences hard rock music has on our life. First is about sexual influences. Nowadays, many hard rock music bands' name are related with sexual organs and indicate sex explicitly. Many of their works contain the elements of infidelity, sadism, homosexuality, rape and so on. Some of the songs even have the degradation of understanding of female figures. Bishop Alexander (n. d.) says one of the reasons why profligacy will be widely discussed in hard rock music is that it can make this type of music more attractive. A theology professor from Andews University, Samuele Bacchioccchi, also states that hard rock music can cause sexual arousal on the young. Therefore, hard rock music really has negative effects on children and young listeners because they have no idea about love and sex and they will incorrectly treat sexual desire as something normal. 
Another bad influence of hard rock music is to cause listeners to commit suicide. Some hard rock music composers will preach suicide to create the feeling of despair on listeners. For example, the song "Suicide Solution" by Ozzy Osbourne, preaches suicide in its lyrics like "Suicide, this is the only way out." An educational psychologist, Dr. Hannelore Wass states that 40% of young criminals listen to those hopeless songs. And the research conducted by National Education Association showed that nearly 6000 teens commit suicide every year due to those songs that contain acedia. According to my interview, <name> also mentioned a famous song by Metallica, which finally led a guy to commit suicide after he listened to it (Bin Han, personal communication, October 28th). 
The last negative effect is about narcotics. As has been mentioned above, many singers use drugs to make themselves more unique to find groups they belong to. Bishop Alexander (n. d.) mentions two comments related with drug abuse to reveal how tightly hard rock music is bound with drugs: 
