Argument Essay 
Purdue University 
(Draft 1) 
Argument Essay 
	There are plenty of divorce happening in different part of the world but is there anybody care about what are some bad effect on their children. After parent got divorce, children will most influence by it and most of the time is corrupting influence. I will use three articles that I found on Purdue library in order to prove my point about the effect on children after divorce. 
According to Teresa E. Levitin (1979), she wrote an article called Children of divorce. During this article, it mainly talk about the most recent finding about the effect on children after divorce and some difficult issue about researching this area. I will more focus summary about the first part because it is more relative to my topic. As mentioned in the paragraph, there is one of the most influential research about influence on children after divorce in the early 1970's which is Cox and Cox study by Hetherington. After several precision inspection and collecting data, Cox and Cox came up with the idea that "there is a notable lack of control both by mothers, who become more restrictive and give orders but often do not follow through with appropriate discipline, and by fathers, who are initially excessively permissive and indulgent."(Reference 3, page 7) It indicates that there is trouble about the relationship between parent and children after divorce. For the restrictive order given by single mom, it will come up with the result that is the child becoming failing the school, criminal and so on. 
Sometimes, children live in divorce family may end up more independent because the situation they live in. Children will need to take care of themselves rather than protect from their parent. Such as my classmate, Tingting, a freshmen at Purdue University who live in a divorce family since she was four years old. Her father pay tuition money and support her to study in a better school. Also, her mother teach her the rules that need to be followed in the society. After all, Tingting become a girl that act decent behavior and nice grade. However, for most of the divorced family, the relationship between mother and father will end up horrible situation. Either mother or father will responsible for children's future, father will lack of attention on children because of busy with making money. Mother will tend to lose control of children because of over-indulgent. As Gordon Berlin (May in 2004) told us in the article "Moreover, research shows that even after one controls for a range of family background differences, children who grow up living in an intact household with both biological parents present seem to do better, on average, on a wide range of social indicators than do children who grow up in a single parent household (Mc Lanahan and Sandefur, 1994). For example, they are less likely to drop out of school, become a teen parent, be arrested, and be unemployed." (Reference 2, page 2) Single parenthood is one of the contributing factors that cause children's horrible behavior in life. 
In the last article, it is the effects of parental divorce on children by Elliott, B.J AND Richards, M.P.M. It support my point by saying that "But breaks and continuing change in these relationships can be associated with low self-esteem, depression and anxiety, acting out behavior, and poor relationships with peers."(Reference 1, page 1) There is always fighting between both parent and that is the main reason for negative outcome of children after divorce. It will be very stressful and distract for children to knowing that there parent going to separate. If children maintain good relationship with parent it may minimized the effect of divorced. 
Finally, those three article give us detail about the bad effects on children after divorce. Teresa E. Levitin (1979) explain to us by using research in 1970 called cox and cox study. It mainly talks about that parent will lose control of their children after divorce. Later, Gordon Berlin (May in 2004) against my interviewee by saying that for most of the single parenthood won't have enough time to take care of the children. Some live in a poor condition with one people supporting the children health and education. The last article was written by Elliott, B.J AND Richards, M.P.M. named the effects of parental divorce on children. The children who went through divorce will tend to have poor relationship with peers and low self-esteem. There are some suggestions that I want to give in order to decrease the bad influence of divorce on children. The first one is that parent should pay more attention on their children after divorce because children are very sensitive and try to gain parent attention in different way. For some time they may did bad behavior in order they can get attention from their parent. As a result, they may end up drop out of school or criminal. The second solution to decrease effect for children is that both parent take positive attitude toward this situation. In other hand, we can say that parent communicate with children to understand the situation and solve it with children. Children can make their own choice or learning that it is not their fault to cause the divorce of parent divorce. After that, children will live a happier life with knowledge of the fact and their own choice who would better to live with. The third solution is also mentioned in Gordon Berlin's article that is "the discovery of marriage education programs seemed to provide the missing link. To the surprise of many, not only did these programs exist, but there was a body of evidence, including more than a dozen randomized trials, indicating that marriage education programs could be effective. " (reference 2, page 3) A marriage education program is that this program will help out couple that having problems about their marriage and having difficult to solving it. This program will help you out and it looks very efficient. I hope this three solution will be useful for family who think about divorce or already divorce in order to prevent lovely children get hurt. 
