Argumentative Draft 3 
11/16/2015 
Discovering a New Area for an Advancement 
	Although American agriculture industry is at the top notch in the global food market, there are still many areas that can be developed. One aspect that could improve American agriculture industry is diversity. The United States agriculture industry should pay more attention to hiring international agriculture business applicants because international employees can set themselves special in terms showing an outstanding performance in international trade based on bilingualism, unique agricultural sales perspective, and knowledge of unintroduced agricultural products. 
	International agriculture business employees can bring in special qualities that are developed from experiencing two different cultures such as bilingualism and unique perspectives with different vision; such aspects may result in a better performance during international trade than domestic employees. Since international trade is common nowadays in the global market, being bilingual with a diverse background will significantly help the business. In their peer-reviewed article, Chang et al. (2013) emphasize how even students acknowledge the importance of having an experience of studying abroad. International students already have what most domestic students need; according to <name> (2015), considering the fact that international students in America are already from different culture, it is easy to assume that they are bilingual (or multilingual) and aware of concepts of diversity. In addition, apart from <name>'s statement, coming from a different environment, international students are likely to have unique perspectives that are developed from different environment. Such unique perspectives give better understanding of different culture and may lead to a different approach in agriculture business. For example, it would be more necessary to have someone who is aware of two or more nations' cultures instead of one during an international trade; international business does not just get done from communicating in the same language, but rather from understanding cultural difference. Understanding local environment, tradition, culture, and technology is significant during the process of international trade. 
	There are unique agricultural and sales perspectives that can only be attained from international employees. If a company desires to participate in the global market to contribute in American agriculture industry's advancement, the unique perspectives of international employees are required. Each country has different soil and weather. It is crucial to acknowledge acidity and moisture of soil along with the characteristics of each season throughout the year to successfully define what product a country has and what product that country needs. For example, according to K4E Editor (2013), South Korea has four distinct seasons with a wide daily temperature range. Therefore, the climate in South Korea leaves fixed list of imported products. An agricultural company must recognize such aspects and have a sales plan based on those aspects. An American (who is not a local at the branch location) can analyze the climate condition and predict how climate and plans should be adjusted. However, it is limited to the locals to determine special products that can only be cultivated at certain locations with efficiency. Also, there are certain agricultural products that can only be produced at certain location by law. It is more efficient to hire an international employee who is aware of a country's legal matters, climate condition, local market, and culture at the same time when doing an international trade. 
	An international employee expertised in agriculture business can bring a great accomplishment to his company by introducing new products to the market. Just as each country has different climate and soil characteristics, there are certain agricultural products that can only be cultivated in particular countries. There are many unique agricultural products. However, there is a very limited number of people who are experts in agriculture business coming from two or more cultural backgrounds while being familiar with both countries' agriculture industry. Nonetheless, if some of these products can be introduced, it may bring a sensation to the global food market. For example, persimmon is a very common fruit in some Asian countries. It can be eaten raw, dried, or fermented, and it is a very popular fall fruit in Korea and Japan. During the Korean thanksgivings week, it is easy to observe the popularity of persimmon since it is omnipresent at houses and restaurants. If persimmon can be introduced to the global food market by an agricultural company with huge size, it could possibly be sensational. Nevertheless, a domestic employee in the American agriculture industry would definitely be short in knowledge related to this matter. If American agricultural companies that hold majority of world's food production become more active on hiring international applicants, such products can be introduced to the global food market and enhance diversity of agricultural products. 
	International agriculture business employees in the United States can develop America's agriculture industry by bringing unique qualities and benefits that most domestic employees cannot bring. Majority of international agriculture business employees are already prepared to be a part in conducting international trade because they are bilingual, well-aware of different culture, and knowledgeable of agricultural products that are not well-known in the global food market; among the three aspects stated, most domestic employees can barely fulfill one aspect of being bilingual. Although <name> (2015) stated, "A lot of companies will be looking for recruitment at Purdue and are usually satisfied hiring someone without taking an extra step that takes to hire an international student," it is time for those companies that want to contribute in developing American and global agriculture industry to take a step and give more efforts on hiring talented international agriculture employees who can bring advancement because the development of a certain nation's agriculture industry will improve the global food market in general, and will enhance the overall quality of agriculture products. 
