Affect of smartphones on people: Do they make us smart or dumb? 
Purdue University 
04/20/2015 
"It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity." 
-Albert Einstein 
The above-mentioned words said by Albert Einstein fit today's scenario perfectly. Nowadays, technology is growing at a faster pace than ever before. Every other day we have a new device hitting the market. One question that arises in everyone's mind is how this advancement in technology (like the new smartphones hitting the market) affects one's intelligence; does it make people dumber or smarter? 
	My interest in this field comes from the fact that I am majoring in computer science at Purdue University and want to be a software engineer in the future. For me the questions - How are smartphones affecting people? Are they making us dumb or smart? - matter a lot. In particular, I want to know how the people are adapting to the ever-growing market of smartphones - how is it hindering their intelligences? In today's world a man and a smartphone hold a very strong relationship. Smartphones remember every piece of information for you from a person's mobile number, to their birthdays, to driving directions to a place. To paraphrase the late George Carlin, they are the digital equivalent of "the place to put our stuff." So, in my opinion smartphones are neither turning us into the generation with the weakest memory nor impairing our intelligence; instead, they are making us smarter. 
	Smartphones have become so ingrained in our lives that it is impossible for many of us to spend a single day without them. We all love are smartphones, but many of us fear that these digital devices are affecting us negatively. Research shows that our intuition is wrong (Willingham, 2015). The reliance on mobile technology is increasing. According to a research article by a firm, smartphones cannot stop us from focusing, but there might be hint of truth in that they are distracting. Smartphones sniff out our desire to think. We have become so used to fast access to any sort of information (thanks to the internet!) that we do not want to even ponder or think about it for a second. Our 'dependence on smartphones' and 'social networking (Facebook, Twitter, etc.)' when combined makes an irresistible cocktail; a cocktail in which there are incentives for constant participation or sharing of information, as well as incessant information "snacking". 
	The argument I want to make is that, despite of drawbacks of the smartphone use, smartphones mostly affect our lives in a positive manner. They are our key to the futuristic world. According to an article by Pew Research Center (Pew Research Center, 2012), 80 % of those surveyed agreed to the fact that they use the internet at least once a week to keep up with developments in their profession, and 72 % of this information is found using smartphones. Hence, according to this research, smartphones improve one's intrapersonal intelligences (self knowledge) (Gardner, 2000). Today's technology is highly customizable - smartphones provide us with information the way we want. Moreover, these digital devices boost our memorizing power too. 
Smartphones free up memory we would normally use for mundane information, so we can use it for other tasks. According to Daniel T. Willingham, a professor of psychology at the University of Virginia, digital devices are not eating our brains or shortening our attention spans. According to the research article mentioned in The New York Times, scientists use "span" to mean two separate things: how much information our mind can retain and how well we can maintain focus. They measured the former by asking people to repeat long strings of numbers in reverse order. They measured the latter by asking people to look at a visual and monitor occasional and subtle changes. As compared to 50 years ago, performance on the tests has not gone down. Therefore, we can conclude that smartphones are not responsible for any effects on our focusing power. 
Still, many believe that smartphones are consistently killing communications between people. I think we need to rethink this statement. Are smartphones really killing communications? I believe not. In today's world communication is global and not restrained to only talking to people who are near to us in terms of location, but smartphones enable us to communicate with our near and dear ones who are in some other part of the world, far away from us. For example, let us say I am currently in the United States and I want to learn German. I have a few friends back in Germany. Would I prefer learning German talking to random people here in the U.S. or talking to my friends in Germany over the phone? Obviously, most of us would prefer the latter to the former. Smartphones help facilitate global communication so that we can easily receive these opportunities. The irony is that these small machines are helping humans to overcome the large distance barriers in this big world, hence, making it a better place to live in. Therefore, smartphones are not villains distracting us or killing our communication, but they are the hidden heroes joining this big gigantic world together. 
