Why Japanese animation has conquered in all around the world? 
It's now an obvious phenomenon that many youngsters make the Japanese animation as the topic. It is even more common than adults chat with each other with the topic of characters appear in the teleplay. So why does this happen may get our attention, we all know unlike teleplay, which is real person acting the exact character, Japanese animation is fictional without actors but the abstract heroes can have strong power to attract us to watch. That is an interesting event so I want to make a deep discussion. Not only in Japan, but also in China, North America, Europe and anywhere. In my point of view, I think the market of Japanese animation is competitive which leads high quality, and this guess is proved by Professor Guo. What's more, unlike other cartoon, Japanese animation is accepted by people in all years around, which means it gains audience from all ages. Third, animation makers intend to spend a lot of money to make the action and scene very exciting. 
When I think about the Japanese animation, the first thought come to my mind is high quality, when it is an action anime, its action scene is very alive and exciting, and the plot of the romantic anime is changeful, and the characters in the anime are exquisite. All these factors make the Japanese animation high quality. Professor Guo Yu, the Head of the Teaching and Research Section, graduated in Sichuan academy of fine art film and television animation major, owned master degree. He is the person that I interviewed, he had the following statement, "Since there is a really good management of producing animation in Japan. There is a sharp rival belong animation companies, so they try their best to improve the quality. That is the clear point why the Japanese anime is so good."from his viewpoint, I know that if two animation companies both want to beat the other and gain more audience, the only thing they can do is to improve the quality of their products. Many work like Dragon ball, One piece, Naruto, won a lot of reputation around the world and were imported by other countries and became popular because of competitive market urged them to make their anime great. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_anime (cited from wekipedia web published on October 6th 2014) 
Additional feel when we watch animation is that people in all ages like to watch the Japanese animation. Youngsters watch the anime which is heartful or romantic, children may watch the anime that is cozy and funny, adults may watch the tactical anime or philosophical anime. This inclination occur because Japanese animation has various genre for audience in different ages. In the book of Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society (published by American Philosophical Society), the writer states that the in the west, people usually think that the comic book or cartoon is only for children, but the Japanese animation in the other hand, is regard as a graphic novel which may have different aspect of fictional plot and can be accepted by different people. They intend to believe the fantasy literature appears in the animation and feel comfortable with that. In addition to that point, anime makers are more likely to make a series of their animation products, like Naruto, animation makers produce more than 600 episodes, the audiences they have are more likely to be people that have watched their series before and beloved it and kept watch their next series, this standpoint is stated by Scott Jordan Harris, an editor of BBC Work Film Location: New York. http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/culture/scottharris/100075887/why-animated-films-are-the-uks-favourite-and-why-thats-not-likely-to-change/ 
In the previous standpoints, I said that there is a sharp rival between Japanese animation companies. This is true because audiences always demand great and are more likely to watch those which are good and meaningful. Maybe there is a huge culture clash beyond countries, unlike other countries, Japanese value the animation deeply, so they are willing to spend a lot of money to make good animation products. Professor Guo prove this statement, "in order to make a good anime, funds are not negligible. Take an example, an OVA(a kind of production of Japanese animation), makers in Japan spent almost 40 million RMB, however, anime makers in China in comparison, spending 500 thousand RMB is a rather large number in China." Although the animation cost is huge, animation makers gains popularity from all around the world because of their high-quality products. 
Take all the factors into account, Japanese animation does have a huge effect around the world, The data shows that the Japanese animation grows audiences with an enormous rate in English-speaking countries: 350 percentages from 2002 to 2007. (cited form Brienza, Casey, Did manga conquer Ameirca? Implications for the cultural policy of 'Cool Japan', UK London, Department of Culture & Creative Industries, October 7th 2013 authorized). It is their patience and their good attitude toward their career can make such success. Sometimes I ask myself, how can we make others moved by our achievement, now I got the result: we should make ourselves into our outcome, be moved by ourselves, and Japanese animation makers did it. 
