P5D3 Assignment 3 Argumentative Essay 
April 15th, 2015	 
Chinese Movie and It's Market 
	Dramatically increasing in the box office of the Chinese movie market, a great enlarging of the size of the Chinese movie market, China faces a serious problem of how to make the Chinese market better. As a lot data and foreign media showed, Chines movie box offices have reached a peak that is close to the market of Hollywood. However, this big share of the box offices in China was actually taken by those movies which are not made by China. Chinese movies are acting with an opposite performance to its market. The movies were defeated in the box offices again and again for the past few years. The truth is, although some may argue that China has already built a complete and sophisticated market, China must develop its movies to accommodate the current market. By producing movies in Chinese own artistic style, sending movie stuffs to study for other excellent art designing method, cooperating with Hollywood to learn its artistic style, China will successfully retake its own market share by movies made by China. 
Some of the studios in China are actually started sending some of their staffs to study aboard for more developed movie making skills. Just as Professor Lance suggested, learning in the high educational film school such as Long Island Film College can be a good way to gain knowledge about how to make good movie and to get known how to produce and publish a movie in a tremendous and sophisticated market. These method will not only help with the studios to get the most developed thesis from those western country who have been in the modern movie industry for hundreds years, but also will build Chinese own theoretical system about how to make a film that can be liked by the audience and with its artistic value. Just like the movie which was recently showing in China called the wolf symbol. The producing team was basically study aboard at France Film College. As a result, they brought a subtle French style feeling to the film and made it very interesting. If Chinese studios can keep doing like this, Chinese movie will at least stand against the Hollywood franchise movie in some way. 
Afterwards, I think China should seek for chances to cooperate with the Hollywood. The Times magazine stated that these years, there are more and more co-making movie made by China and Hollywood. As a matter of fact, these movies mostly performed well in both North American market and Chinese main land market. Professor Lance also believed that co-making movie will be a future trade in the contemporary world. To China, they got the technics and concept they wanted to learn and they got their share of the cake. On the other hand, Hollywood finds the oversea market they've been searching for decades. Thus, cooperation will be a good solution for both of China and Hollywood. 
Some people may argue that Chinese movies are mature enough and can gain a great amount of the box offices. They stated that Chinese movie market is big enough to influence the whole world. Those exaggerated media claimed that Chinese movie's box offices are great enough and they think Chinese movie does not need to improve. On the other hand, international media use long pages to praise the growing of the Chinese movies. Thus, even some of the most critical critics have blinded their mind, holding positive views to the future of the Chinese movie market. They all hold the point of view that the Chinese movies are performing well enough. 
However, apparently, the Chinese movie market is only being through a short-term explosion in because of the size of the market itself enlarged. We can hardly say that Chinese movie market became sophisticated enough. The truth is that the Chinese movie industry still lack of lot of distinguished steps to manufacture highly completed movies. Nevertheless, if the industry started to grow more sophisticated but the producers and other movie workers do not learn to develop, the Chinese movie will still face hardness to develop itself. Thus, the participators in the movie industry should also seek for ways to develop. Specifically, the producers should recruit more graduates from the US movie colleges. Those people are totally educated by the Hollywood style. Besides, more staffs from the movie companies should find the opportunities to study aboard, bringing the most highly developed techniques and concepts from those traditional movie country. After years of professional study, studios will be all with professional knowledge and skills to make the actual sophisticated films. 
To sum up, cooperating with Hollywood, standing for the traditional gorgeous Chinese movie, and, avoiding from making the same mistakes in the movie marketing area that Chinese movie always make will give the Chinese movie a more sophisticated market. In turn, the society will greatly benefit from those great meaningful movies. Additionally, if the movie industry grows in a fast healthy way, this entertainment system will help the Chinese society got a more diverse environment and can do positive influence to the whole country. 
