How do Chinese students get involved in American social life? 
As the number of international students in America increases, the problems of international students like adaptation become more and more important for universities. In this essay, I will take Chinese students in America as an example, because Chinese students are the main part of all international students. Instead of talking about their all aspects of college life, I will write about their social life on campus in this paper. According to poor situation that Chinese students have difficulties getting involved in college life, people have different ideas about it, and I classify those ideas into to two parts. Some of them think highly of students themselves when they look for solutions, and they think the key is that students have to change themselves to fit in new circumstances. On the contrary, others focus on changing the environment to help Chinese students get involved in the new life. For example, in some activities, universities will set up special sections for international students in order to make them feel comfortable and relaxed. If I have to choose one, I support the second idea. In order to make my opinion clear, I will describe each thought in specific examples in the following paragraphs. 
For those who think students should mostly change themselves to fit in college social life, they are more likely to leave Chinese students alone and suppose they can adapt into American life gradually. It reminds me of one sentence that no one can change you but yourself. When I reviewed an essay written by Wenli Yuan from Kean University after He interviewed ten Chinese students studying in America, I found that one of his essay's parts was about attitude toward adaptation. In that part, he stated that some of Chinese students may be unwilling to change themselves in order to fit in new life, so they always make Chinese friends even though they have been in America for many years. However, for those who want to get involved in American style, they will find their own ways to achieve the goal, like joining in clubs, hanging out with American friends, and attending American parties. The whole thing is about what Chinese students really want and what they choose to do about it. Also self-concept is one of most important reasons that affects international students when they try to get themselves understood. Like Christopher Deal wrote in his essay in which he tried to find perfect solutions for Asia students studying in America, Asia students should examine themselves by identifying who they really are and be prepared for incoming challenges. Because when Chinese students come to America, they are putting themselves in a totally different world, and the only way to adapt into a environment where they are the different ones is to change themselves instead of hoping others to change for them. 
When international students are not occupying a big part of college students in America, the self-motivation idea may work, but when international students become more and more, universities have to take some strategies to make international students, especially Chinese students, feel comfortable. The topic is about how to adapt into social life in America, so when Chinese students meet problems in their social life, Seeking help is one way for international students to get connected with social life in colleges. In the academic essay which writes about supporting international students' transition to the United States, authors wrote a lot about mental services in college which help international students release their burden when feel stressed in new circumstances. The essay also says that establishing a supportive network in the U.S. is very critical in the successful adjustment of international students. Professional organizations which focus on helping international students not only help students solve initially adaptive problems but also some mental or academic problems they may have after they get involved. For example, instead of asking for help in social life, Chinese students may seek suggestions when they have poor performance on assignments, and they may need mental health services when they have problems with their friends. In addition to mental health center, open activities also can help Chinese students adjust to American social life. For example, University of California, Los Angel, offers the Welcome Dance, international movie clubs, and conversational group meetings in order to help international students. Much more connection with people around provide Chinese students a precious place to release their stress and adjust to new life better. 
According to two ideas and specific explanation I gave above, the first solution which tell Chinese students to change themselves to fit the changing environment only works when there is a little amount of Chinese students. However, the fact is that Chinese students become more and more in American universities, so the main solution to help them quickly get involved in the new social life is to set organizations which focus on do favors for Chinese students when they meet troubles. Because it not only help Chinese students in colleges now, but also make it better for Chinese students and other international students in the future. 
