P5d1 
April 10, 2016 
Wrong captain in the boat 
It is a well-known fact that Koreans are very enthusiastic about education and expanding their knowledge. Regardless of social class, Koreans believe education must be their priority to succeed in life. This common thought is basically influenced by Confucianism, which dominated Korea for over 1000 years and this culture greatly emphasized success of oneself by an endless studying. The culture, however, has been distorted along with Korea's economic growth in the past few decades. The government came up with college entrance admission policies, which triggered people to depend heavily on private education. It has always been a problem in Korea about the college admission system itself, people saying it is very unfair. I also strongly agree that education policies provoke private education and is greatly tilted. The hilarious thing is, while the government strongly pursues the abolition of private education, they bring up policies which does not fit with their aim. Therefore I think the government should make amendments to these college admission policies such as, allowing colleges to test the students once more after the national entrance exam and reducing students admitted by the "Admission officer system". 
To explain the reason why I suggested the first solution: Allow colleges to test their candidates (also referred as students) once again, is because the national entrance exam currently held in Korea is failing to differentiate the academic achievement levels of students. According to the Ministry of Education, over the past 10 years, not only the range of what the national college entrance exam covers became narrow but also the level of difficulty has greatly dropped. Government's explanation of this situation is that making the exam easier than before can lessen the burden from students and also reduce excessive private education. The reality is, however, people look for more private education because they need to get extremely high scores in the test compared to others, in order to get admitted to elite colleges. Parents who have kids at high school explain it has been much harder than the old days, since everyone is getting good scores from the easy exam and standing out of them is really tough. 
The reason I offered reducing the number of students admitted by "Admission officer system" is because the system has various type of flaws. To mention the biggest problem of the system, it does not have any clear criteria of admission; that means the college will pick students in their own taste. It looks fine from the outside because technically, colleges have the right to admit students themselves. But the dark side casts over the bright side. Over the past few years, 13 students got cancelled their admission because their parents were caught by bribing to one of the admissions office executives. This became a very big issue in Korea because people thought, up to that point, studying extremely hard and achieving great results is the 'firmly secured ladder' for the poor to move up to a upper class. But this scandal shocked the entire country leaving question marks on the "Admission officer system". 
I admit that my suggestions are not perfect, but I still think they are way much better than the policies right now. People could say that, allowing colleges to test their candidates once more will give more financial burden on students, since colleges would require applicants to pay another examination fee. On top of that, they would say students would feel more pressure on their studies because they need to study more deeply than before. But what I would say is that the costs which students pay to colleges if they take another exam will not be too expensive. Furthermore, students has to pay an additional fee to each college they apply even at this point, so the costs for the examination would not be such a burden. Moreover, by requiring students to study more than before, we could expect a higher level of knowledge from them compared by the past. Some might question me what would be the alternatives if I want the number of students admitted by "Admission officer system" and refute that students admitted from this system might perform well in their college years. As a said, I would want just to reduction of the number of students not abolition. Obviously there has been a lot of problems with the system and what I think is make amendments through time, not just admitting students without any plans. Plus, statistics show students admitted by this system performed relatively bad in their college years; this definitely show a problem. 
In conclusion, I think South Korea's education policies are quite unfair. And the gap between the wealthy and the poor is growing bigger and bigger. So, the government should make some changes in its policies such as allowing colleges to test the students once more after the national entrance exam and reducing students admitted by the "Admission officer system". 
