11/29/15 
Negative Portrayals of Female Characters in Anime 
	Based on the recent news published on The Japan Times website, "U.N. rapporteur urges crackdown on impunity for child sex offenders", the author, Tomohiro Osaki, reported about the latest visit of United Nation expert in Japan. Maud de Boer-Buquicchio, "U.N. special rapporteur on child prostitution and pornography" conducted a thorough investigation of sex offense in Japan. Some of the forms of child sex offense are "joshi kosei aka high school girl, chakuero and erotica" that show teenage school girls in revealing and "sexually provocative" clothes. After conducting the investigation, De Boer-Buquicchio suggested Japan to embargo on Japanese comics with severe content of child pornographic. The news suggested child sex abuse can generally occur due to the ways women are portrayed in Japan entertainment industry. Japanese cartoon aka anime, one of the phenomenal Japanese entertainments is loved by people from different stages. Though anime can be a great source to learn some life lessons, it can also be a disaster if the contents show inappropriate scenes to the viewers. Among the scenes show are teenage girls being raped, high school girls being bullied and women in revealing attire. These created scenes suggested there is a stereotype of female character's portrayal in anime. Female characters are usually portrayed as weak, damsels in distress and sex objects. Thus, in this paper, I intend to provide points that support my hypothesis of negative portrayals of female characters in anime. 
	First and foremost, a typical stereotype of female characters in anime is they are usually portrayed as weak. Female characters are shown to be too dependent on men and cannot do anything by themselves without making any silly mistakes. They cannot make their own judgement on certain things which sometimes make them look pretty dumb. For example, in anime, "Jigoku Shoujo" or Hell Girl, in the beginning, Ai Enma is seen as a girl who needs to be protected by her boy cousin, Sentarou, from the bad kids in her village. When Ai Enma is chosen by the village's leader to be sacrificed in a certain ritual, her parents secretly asked Sentarou to hide and take care of her wellbeing. After her hideout is known, she is buried alive by the villagers. She came back to life and burned the entire village to take her revenge. When I watched this anime, I was wondering why Ai Enma's parents let a boy to take care of their daughter and why Ai Enma cannot defend herself when other boys tease her? Why it has to be after she died she will magically have the "strong power" to fight her right? On the other hand, not all anime portrayed female characters as weak. Japanese cartoons like Princess Mononoke depicts woman as a fighter. Other anime such as Sailor Moon shows woman as a fighter against evil. Though they are portrayed as strong main characters, ironically, they are usually being represented as "kawaii" or cute with their round big sparkly eyes and cute costumes. Kawaii was started to be associated with women during the Shogunate period. During this period, Confucian women were seen as "docile and dependent" or in other word helpless (Shiokawa 95). The way women being portrayed as kawaii make them look vulnerable. If the anime producers really want to show women as strong, they should consider cutting out the kawaii element in displaying female fighters. 
	In addition women being portrayed as weak in anime, another stereotype of female characters' portrayal is they are illustrated as damsels in distress. Female characters are illustrated as persons who need to be rescued by their handsome knights in shining armours. This kind of illustration in anime began in the middle to the end of 70's where women were depicted as the hero's cute but helpless girlfriends (Shiokawa 109). In Naruto Shippuden, we can see Sakura, one of the main characters always needs to be saved by her boy comrades, Naruto and Sasuke. She usually takes actions without thinking the dangerous outcomes. Even though she is a strong "shinobi" and is blessed with a super strength, when facing with enemies, she often needs to be rescued. Female character is also personified as a "prize" that only the strongest man can get. In a certain anime, we can see fights occur between two or more men because of a woman and she usually falls for the most masculine man- the hero. This masculinity stereotype is dangerous as it creates a male power fantasy to attract a girl and make her his possession. 
	Last but not least, the common portrayal of female characters in anime is they are sexually objectified by the way they dress up and treat by other male characters. Most of the female characters in anime will wear pin up clothes that show their big breasts and boobs. This type of depiction began between the end of 70's and early 80's when the pornographic genre was established for adults. The girls in boys' manga were started to wear clothes that showed their big breasts (Shiokawa 110). Cute women were depicted in the explicit sexual circumstances such as "rape and bondage". Furthermore, female characters or heroines in manga or anime were portrayed in naked states just to satisfy male readers' or viewers' desire (Shiokawa 118). This kind of illustration of female characters is prevalent in anime. This is alarming since anime is supposed to convey constructive message to the viewers and not promote partial nudity. In addition, people usually make jokes about panties and men accidentally touch women's breasts in manga. These jokes are claimed to be incorporated in anime in order to promote cultural awareness regarding offensive actions such as "groping". Other types of "jokes" in manga are abortion, rape and sexual harassment (Brenner 81). In Boys Over Flowers, Tsukushi, the female main character was sexually assaulted and hit by a male character. Surprisingly, no action was taken after the incidence and she did not seem to be traumatised with the perpetrator. They seemed normal towards each other and could meet and talk like nothing had happened. This does not seem logical in our real world. According to <name>, a <position> at Purdue University, the scene of the female character being sexually-assaulted was created to show the male dominance in Japan. In her country, there is still a general perception among the older people in rural areas of women should just be housewives and not further their studies after graduating from high schools. This kind of perception implies male dominance still exists among the older people in some parts of Japan. 	In conclusion, gender stereotype still exists in anime as female characters are portrayed negatively. They are usually depicted as weak, damsels in distress and sex objects. As a developed nation, Japan should take the issue of women being portrayed negatively seriously. They should filter the inappropriate scenes in anime for children viewing and reconsider the relevance of current law. The law, people can still own pornographic contents in the form of anime and manga, is pretty much the same as people possessing pornographic materials but the people in them are inanimate. The measures are important as anime is not only for entertainment but also teaching people about real life events and drama. 
Work Citation 
Osaki, Tomohiro. 'U.N. Rapporteur Urges Crackdown on Impunity for Child Sex Offenders | 	The Japan Times'. The Japan Times. 2015. Web. 27 Nov. 2015. 
Jigoku Shoujo. Studio Deen: Hiroshi Watanabe, 2005. Film. 
Lent, John A. Themes and Issues in Asian Cartooning: Cute, Cheap, Mad, and Sexy. Bowling 	Green, OH: Bowling Green State U Popular, 1999. Print. 
Naruto Shippuden. Studio Pierrot and TV Tokyo: Hayato Date, 2007. Film. 
Brenner, Robin E., and Net Library, Inc. Understanding Manga and Anime. Westport, Conn.: 	Libraries Unlimited, 2007. Web. 
Boys Over Flowers. Toei Animation: Shigeyasu Yamauchi, 1996. Film. 
