Whether international students should join native students' programs 
College and university campuses are abound with activities designed to foster friendships. For international students who study abroad for the first time, it is a great opportunity to learn American culture and get involved in college if they join local student programs. I think it is meaningful to interact with other people in order to develop my social life because interaction is fundamental for everything. But recently, a lot of people point out that, on the contrary, joining American students' community is not only useless, but also harmful for international students. So base on this opinion, I start to do some research and want to defend my idea. 
There was a piece of news that poster on North American students' daily newspaper with the title of "Do you really win if you stay with American students?" It said many international students wanted to live like an local American student, so they joined American activities, went to different kinds of parties, focused on Adventure activities etc. The most obvious example was the fraternity. We always see two people carried one dunk student staggered out off the door from the fraternity. When you see this kind of scene, did you still want to join American programs? It was no denying that some international students liked this kind of living mode, but most of them didn't. As long as people joined local students programs, they started to have a chance touching tobacco, marijuana, even dugs. These kinds of things which were rarely seeing in their home country were commonly occurred in United State. Once people got obsessed with drugs, they would never get rid of such evil. All in all, it is better to stay with people who came from their own country. 
Even though the newspaper offers me another concept to look at the local students program, but for me, I still hold my point that international student should join the local program. First, let us talk about the first advantage to join the local program---practicing English. As I said before, English was the fundamental for student to study in United State, and the best way to learn English was making friends with native students as well as join as much programs as you can. In Areddy James' article "Chinese Learn English", he mentioned that hanging out with natives not only naturally pushed them to improve their conversational English, but also helped them pick up cultural and social cues. And one of the greatest tests of a person's fluency in English is to put them in a room with a bunch of native speakers and see if they can follow and contribute to the conversation. The more international students conversed with others in English, the better they got. It was easy to imagine that if international students always stick with people from their own country as well as said their mother language, what would happened finally. No matter what people thought about my opinion, I still thought that there wasn't another way learning English better than learning from local students. 
Secondly, Socialization is one of the most important aspects of their international experience. It is essential for the development of individuals who can participate and function within their societies, as well as for ensuring that a society's cultural features will be carried on through their whole life. The point was that their friends from their own country would never show them the real local culture and American thinking mode. But as long as they joined the local program, they would got used to the phenomenon in United State and explore different ways of leaning and playing. For example, my routine was from the class to apartment for the first month in American, since I joined the community of college of science, I started to go to the Indianapolis zoo, corn maze and Tippecanoe school playing with kids. All the events which I attended decorated my boring life and made me feel that I was a member of the college. All this experience I would get only after I joined the American students' program. Building on my own experience, I strongly recommended international students attended such activities and made friends with American students. 
What's more, about what the newspaper said, I could not totally agree. We could not 100% guarantied that all the friends from their own country were the people who had good habits. The recently research showed that there were an increasing number of Chinese students chose to study aboard, and a big part of them came from wealthy family. Their life was occupied by luxuries, parties and alcohol, in another words, their purpose being here was just getting a unworthy diploma. Students who played with them would also became license and corrupt. So whether people getting better depended on which person they played with, but not on which nations. It was true that American students born to be free and open, but it didn't represented that all of them taking drugs and sleeping until the noon. Professor Cameron Diaz Jones who came from Bucknell University in Pennsylvania gave us an opinion that meeting foreign made people know themselves and their home country. Through communicating with local students, international students would found the weakness of themselves and the distance between American education and the education in their home country. Then they would surely know how to improve themselves. That was the third reason that I insisted my opinion. 
To draw a conclusion, there are still some disadvantages and concerns for international students to join local students' program, and the phenomenon which the newspaper posters on still exist. But for me, joining local programs not only helps international students practicing their English, meeting more American friends, better getting involved in college, but also helps them know themselves better. Depending on what I said, it is worth for international students to join native students' progams. 
