Human-Cat Symbiosis 
P5D3 Argumentative 
4/27/2015 
Human-Cat Symbiosis 
First of all, cats are easy to keep. Among the most popular pets, cats are the only kind that are highly self-sufficient. Except during infancy, you can simply just leave a plate of food and water on the floor, offer a toy or two, and go. Your cat can still have fun all day without your presence. "Because of cats' self-sufficiency, they are very suitable for old people who don't have much energy and time to take care of their pets." (A. Beck) Contrasting to other pets such as dogs and birds, keeping a cat is a lot more easier. 
However, self-sufficiency is not the only thing cats have. According to Dean (2008), cats can consistently improve human's mood. A Swiss organization studied on 200 couples who kept cats and compared the effects of both the couples and the cats on their mood. The outcome showed that cats can appease negative moods although they don't promote positive ones. Cats can improve human's health as well. Research has shown the long term benefits of owning a cat include protection for your heart. Over the 20 years of study, they found that people who never owned a cat were 40% more likely to die from a heart attack than those who had. ("27 ways pets can improve your health", 2014) Also, children grown up with cats are less likely to develop allergies, and their immune system are stronger than those who did not. These are effects other pets don't have, and they also suggested that human should keep cats. 
Not only cats offer goodness to human, human can benefit their lives as well. Researcher used the classic procedure "strange situation"(putting cats into a totally strange circumstance with and without its most familiar person's presence) to find that cats are more relaxed when their owners are present, proving that their emotional between human do exist (Dean 2008). 
In addition, there are still a lot of stray cats in the streets where they don't have much protections. They eat mice that live in sewer and they catch birds, they might live in garbage yards of on someone's rooftop. They are extremely vulnerable to disease and parasites and injuries. Domestic cats, however, are living much more better than stray cats because they live under human's protection. And this is another reason for human to keep cats, for their good. 
Human behavior affects cats' lives, most of them are good effects such as altering. Altering domestic cats does little harm. On the contrary, it helps them get rid of the anxiety and reduce negative emotions during mating season. This also eliminate the over population trouble for the owners and let them focus their attention on their "only cats" in the house, which allows them to offer the best attendance for the cats. There are long-term benefits for cats. 
Cats might carry parasites that can pose potential harm to our health. However, the most common parasite a cat might carry is toxoplasma gondii. But the harm this parasite could bring, has been exaggerated. Except for pregnant women and infants, this parasite has almost no influences on human. Besides, many people who are influenced by toxoplasma gondii didn't get it from their cats but from unclean food or raw meat. Also, you can bring your cat to an animal hospital to do routine check to prevent any potential parasite infection. 
Since there are so many goodness exchanges between us and cats, there is no reason why two mutually beneficial creatures can't be together. With all the benefits cats offer and things we do for them, human and cats have created a perfect species crossing symbiosis. So I should keep a cat, and you should keep a cat. 
