Christian Churches Have Positive Influences on International Students 
9 April 2015 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This paper is the argumentative essay discussing the topic: Christian churches have positive influences on international students. My research question is how Chinese students in Purdue University become familiar with Christian churches and how Christian church communities influence them socially and academically. As my purpose, I combined my proposal, interview report and my synthesis paper and came to a conclusion that, because the effect on students' social life and academic like are helpful over all, the influences from Christian churches for international students, especially Chinese students are positive. 
Christian Churches Have Positive Influences on International Students 
Introduction 
Many international students are not familiar with Christianity. As a Chinese student who has limited knowledge of Christianity, I have the experience of going to a Chinese Christian church when I first came to Purdue University. After witnessing the powerful influences of this type of community, I decided to study how Chinese students become familiar with Christian churches and how does Christian churches influence Chinese students' life socially and academically. After researching on the reason why Chinese students are easy to be affected by Christian churches, I did further study about the significance of high convert rates in Chinese Christian churches and different sorts of influences a Christian church can do on Chinese students. 
Literature Review 
The fact of history has proved that Christianity has a certain influence on people so that Christians are able to be contributive in various fields. The work of De Mar (2009), the impact of Christianity on the world supports this idea by giving several examples of great Christians who did outstanding contributions to the world. Since it is clear that Christianity has the power to influence people, it also has a close relationship with international students studying in the U.S. Christian churches are communities that welcome both domestic and international students. Due to this characteristic, it is common to see international students who are considered as the minorities of the campus grow interest in Christianity and Christian churches. In the article preparing international students for a successful social experience in higher education, Lacina (2002) states that some students experience loneliness; others may have problems due to their unfamiliarity with U.S. customs and values (p.21). Other than language diversity, the article illustrates that "There appears to be no greater influence on cultural customs and practices than religion" (p.23). There are specific reasons for Chinese people to choose church communities. 
The article of Yang (1998a) introduces a common characteristic in many Chinese-American churches, that is, a high convert rate among adults. "Most of them converted to evangelical Protestantism after coming to the United States" (p.240). The article gives a conclusion that social and cultural changes in China, institutional factors and the universal challenge of modernity have impacted Chinese to become Christian (p. 254). Yang (1998b) in another article, conversion and identity construction: the role of the Chinese Christian church in the USA, also talks about the role of a Chinese church. It is a converting agency: the construction and re-affirming of a meaning system based on Christian faith is most important for the church and the participants. It is an assimilation agency: it is a home for the "selective assimilation," holding traditional moral values but based them on the newly accepted Christian ground. It is also an ethnic center: it not only maintains Chinese identity by network construction, but also transforms the Chinese pride to a Chinese mission which stimulates Chinese Christians to evangelize to other peoples (p.?). 
Answering why Christianity have the attraction to Chinese people, Kuo (2014) indicates that "Christianity with a Chinese character" has been created because of the historical transformation of Chinatown and the practical help that the churches have rendered their parishioners in meeting their social and psychological needs. Thus Chinese Christian churches attract not only first-generation immigrants who must strive to assimilate into mainstream American society but also those second-, third-, and fourth-generation Chinese Americans who join the church largely to partake of the unique communion that it provides and indeed creates. (p. 346) 
Similarly, in the article religious conversion to Christianity among students from the People's Republic of China: a comparative study, Wang (2004) presents her idea that social-cultural changes in China prepare PRC students for accepting a religious belief, while the institutional context in the U.S. eventually lead them to becoming evangelical Christians. Chinese evangelical organizations have played a very important role in recruiting Chinese converts. The institutional contexts in the United States make it possible for them to claim a religious belief. The evangelical missionaries provide them a religion that is more acceptable to them (conclusion and implication). 
Conclusion 
In my opinion, Christian churches have the capacity to influence Chinese students. They attract international students, especially Chinese students because of the characteristics of church communities and the factor of Chinese students' religion backgrounds. The historical and psychological factors both explained Chinese students' conversion to Christianity. The influences of Christian churches on Chinese students have various aspects. As a result, more and more Chinese students convert to Christianity because of its influences. 
