Argumentative essay 
Many students have par-time jobs nowadays. Part-time job may have some potential negative effect on students. For instance, it can influence students' academic performances. In addition, students with part-time jobs may develop bad habits like stealing, lying and etc. However, there are more advantages than disadvantages for students to have part-time jobs. In order for part-time jobs mot to affect students' social life and school work, students need to manage their time wisely. 
A research "Effects of Employment on Student Academic Success", compiled by BYU Employment services.in December 2006 suggests that part-time jobs do not affect students' GPA if they have appropriate amount of working hours. Many teachers and parents think part-time jobs can influence students' school work. Some students complained they cannot do well in school if they have part-time jobs. However, on the basis of BYU Employment Study, only students with more than 20 working hours per week will get influenced by work. In the other word, poor school work is not really related to part-time jobs. Since only working excessively can affect GPA, students can do well in both work and study by manage their time wisely. 
Furthermore, my interview with Sarah Fanning, a supervisor from the Ford Dinning Hall, also proves that part-time jobs do not have bad impact on academic performance. The story she told me which was about a student struggling with his study suggests the importance of time management. Because of his irregular timetable, he had trouble with his study. Undoubtedly, it is hard to finish your school work if you work six hours a day. Therefore, a reasonable schedule is essential. Sarah also suggests that working hours can be really flexible. It can be changed based on students' course schedule, so working hours will not have conflict with school work. In general, a great time management can help students do well in school and work. 
I used to work in the Ford Dinning hall and I work 12 hours per week. Every day, after the shift, I was exhausted and did not want to anything. In the first few days, I really wanted to quit working because it is tough to study and work at the same time. After a week, I asked to change my working schedule. I decided to working more hours in the weekend and work less during school day. Then I surprisingly found out that I could finish my homework on time and reviewed the knowledge I learned every day. All in all, I have to give credit to the perfect timetable that I set up. Since I arranged my working hours, study time and entertaining hours reasonably, until now I still maintained a decent GPA. 
In the conclusion, part-time jobs have nothing to do with poor school work. It is bad time management that causes the detriment of study. The general public, especially teachers and students should give more support for part-time job. It will not distract students from studying. On the other hand, proper part-time job is good for student since it can make students become more independent. 
