The Future of Gene Modification 
Every second there is a new born infant opened its eyes to look at this magic world. Every year million square kilometers forest has disappear from our planet forever. Every inch of the land on earth is under the threats from drought, salinization and the greenhouse phenomena right now. Although we are trying our best to control the population all over the world, in the next twenty years the population will be over eight billion, which leads to a serious problem that many parts of the world may face famine. In order to solve this problem, gene modification is going to become the most efficient and important method to enhance the percent yield and livability of the crops. Also, to human races, for now this technology is the only chance to heal the inherited congenital diseases and prevent further negative mutations happen in human genetic pool. If gene modification can help us create such a better world, why we should still keep it away from us? We should definitely support this technology to be widespread use. 
There are two opposite voices now in the biology domain; part of them thought there is no necessary to push the technology admitted by people, especially when this technology still involved with ethic issues and unpredictable results because of immature of the technology itself. Furthermore, other skills can also be used replace gene modification to implement the mission which is give a healthy life to a baby; for instance, using third party's egg or sperms to avoid the risk genes in consanguineous parents. However, everyone's gene map deserves to keep and inherit to their next generation, not just because there is part of the gene is "unsuccessful", we will take off the right of them to be parents. Using gene modification can not only easily solve this problem that many people really want their own lineages, but also avoid the situation that some religions are not allow abortion. Both the parents and the baby will not afflict any suffer. What's more, the unsafe and immature rumors about this technology have also been cleared recently. George Church did the research about whether gene modification apply on human is reliable or not. He explained when implement this technology on an embryo, doctors can do previous practice, which makes the whole progress much safer. Because doctors can clearly know the harmful unintended consequences and easily avoid them, this makes this technology more reliable. The Wall Street Journal, 2016 
In addition, from another aspect, through these pieces of news below, they show the statement of many countries about this technology. April 4, 2016 news, Japanese government just earmarked 76,995,456 dollars on developing genome editing technology. Chicago Breaking News, 2016 UK government has just approved gene modification clinical trials on human embryos. Quartz, 2016 Chinese scientists ignored western concerns embrace human cloning. Value Walk, 2016 To get a deeper idea of this technology, I did an interview to a neurobiology and psychology major teaching assistant. First, she briefly explains the progresses of gene modification. Then, she told me that there is no immature parts of this technology for now and personally she is totally support this technology to be widely used. In a word, the permission of gene modification this technology to be widely use is just the matter of time. 
Gene modification food has already been on people's tables for a while. However, many people even may not notice the changes of our recipes or still have concerns about gene modification food. With the environment getting worse and the urban population increasing, fewer and fewer lands can be used to grow crop. Part of past cultivating land is becoming skyscrapers, part of it has already covered by salty seawater and part of it are now disappear turn into non-reversible desert. While gene modification applied in botany domain helped solve this situation a lot, it enhances the resistance ability of drought and salinization. Also, gene modification increases the biomass of shoots and roots, which means stronger viability. This technology has been applied on many different kinds of crops already, which will lead the farm marketing to a new level. American Council, 2016 
Everyone deserves the rights to have a baby; everyone baby deserves a healthy life. No one's life should be decided and give up. We are all equal. Gene modification can help this dream come true, we should take whatever we have to support this technology being widespread use. In botany domain, gene engineering has been applied for a long time and the only thing that we need to consider in this domain is to win people's trust, because there is no negative impact of this technology. If the population continues increasing in a rapid speed, there will definitely expose a large-scale famine or pestilence to balance the limited resource. We cannot predict the pestilence, but we already got the ability to prevent famine happen. However, in human domain, I think the best way to solve this problem is to publish reasonable and specific laws put this technology under control. In the mean time, give permission to gene modification as soon as possible to contribute the world more. This technology is definitely the most valuable technology in the twenty-one century of my mind. 
Reference 
Darnovsky, Dr. "Should Heritable Gene Editing Be Used on Humans." The Wall Street Journal 7. 1 2016: n. pag. Web. 10 Apr. 2016. 
http://www.wsj.com/articles/should-heritable-gene-editing-be-used-on-humans-1460340173 
Le Mieux, Julianna. "Not the Same Old Genetic Modification: How Fine-Tuning Gene Expression in Plants Might Feed the World." American Council on Science and Health. N.p., 6 Apr. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2016 
http://acsh.org/news/2016/04/06/not-the-same-old-genetic-modification-how-fine-tuning-gene-expression-in-plants-might-feed-the-world/ 
Melin, Mark. "Chinese Embrace Human Cloning, Ignoring Western Concerns." Value Walk. N.p., 13 Apr. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2016. 
http://www.valuewalk.com/2016/04/chinese-embrace-human-cloning-ignoring-western-concerns/ 
Mohdin, Aamna. "The UK Has Become the First Country to License Genetic Modification of Human Embryos." Quartz. N.p., 1 Feb. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2016. 
http://qz.com/607032/the-uk-has-become-the-first-country-to-license-genetic-modification-of-human-embryos/ 
Yomiuri. "Japanese Government Eyes 8. 6 Billion Yen to Develop Genome Editing Technology." : Chicago Breaking News, Sports, Business, Entertainment, Weather and Traffic -. N.p., 3 Apr. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2016. 
http://www.chicagotribune.com/sns-wp-japan-genome-59462e18-f9cf-11e5-9140-e61d062438bb-20160403-story.html 
