Assignment 4 draft 3 
04/23/2016 
Social media and privacy: argumentative paper 
Introduction and Background 
	In the last decade, with the emerge of all kinds of social media in result of technology advancement, our social life has been utterly changed. Social media made sharing our life much easier and information spreading much faster, however, there is seems always a negative side towards every new technology. From my previous interview with professor <name>a clinical assistant professor teaching Network Engineering Technology in Purdue university, he mentioned that as soon as people discover that people are given up their privacy freely, it not hard to track down their personal status, house address and even daily schedule. If people with bad intentions decided to rob your house, all they need to do is to watch your social media posts until you give away your information that nobody is in the house. Not only our daily life is under surveillance but also our online activities are also tracked, usually for commercial purpose, searching engines and marketing websites use technologies such as tracking cookies in users' web browser, tracking IP addresses or even GPS services to link our social accounts and our search results in order to present the commercial we might be interested in. Also our shared information might be used for illegal activities such identity theft, which means our social media accounts can be clone by the others. Not to mention the risk of websites' database being breached. 
The Use of Real Information 
The conveniences and potential privacy threats existed in social media makes me wonder, is it a good idea to reveal our true information to social media? In my opinion we should not share our real information on social media, here are my reasons: 
Potential Household Break-in and Burglary 
As mentioned in the introduction, some users like to share their travel plans on social networking sites. Based on my personal experience I have seen lots of people sharing their travel photos and locations without checking privacy settings so they are exposed to the whole world. The action of sharing travel plans is overall not beneficial since a report by the police department of Prince William county suggested that over 75% of convicted burglars believed that other burglars uses social media to find targets. ("How Burglars Use Social Media", 2016). Burglars usually break into victim's houses firstly by using the 'nearby friends' functions provided by most social media, then they will wait until users post about their absence at home. Finally, burglars are able to either acquire credit card information form mail box or break in user's home and take valuables. Some people may argue that they want their friends and families to know their absence. A better way of inform them is by communicating in real life or inform them via secured messaging tools. There is no need to let everyone know you are not at home. 
Possible Identity Theft 
Despite the revealing of their locations, users also tended to give their personal information such as real names and pictures. The number of users using their photos and names on social website is bigger than I thought, according to Mary Madden et al. (2012), a survey done by Pew Research indicates that in 2012, 91% of teenage users, which is a big part of social media users have posted photos of themselves on social media and 92% of them use their real names on the social accounts they used the most often. The huge number of users provide real information makes identity theft possible. This is a case that happened in my life, one of my friends posted about his new life in college, which includes his selfies, several months an unknown user account that used my friend's selfies as profile picture found me and claim that he is in trouble and needed some money. I quickly realized it was a spam and inform my friend to delete his pictures posted. Although in this case the fraud has been stopped, there were other users who set their feet into the traps. You might counterclaim that a fake account with a few profile pictures and a name doesn't have much credibility. Indeed, many of us can distinguish the real user in many ways but not all the social media users are as careful, especially elders and anxious family members, they are the main target population of identity theft frauds. Also, an experiment report published by Leyla Bilge in 2009 shown that it is possible to use applications to break through CAPTCHA and completely clone user's profile, what's more, two out of five social media on their list don't even have CAPTCHA as protection, which makes cloning even easier. 
Unnecessary Marketing Messages 
In the earlier interview with professor <NAME>a clinical professor at the University of Purdue teaching network administrating, professor Hansen mentioned that everything we do online is traceable. Mostly for commercial proposes, social media use users' age, search results and their friends profile to determine what kinds of advertisement to present. In a survey done by Michael. A. Stelzner (2011), among 3342 marketers, 93% of them have used social media as marketing tools. As you can see marketing via social media in really popular, and it might be a potential threat to our personal life. Once users' interests have been recorded, corresponding ads will pop up whenever they go to a website. But these ads are annoying since they sometimes block the page and it will sometimes be awkward if seen by the others. Sometimes those ads can be actually helpful for users that intend to learn more about certain type of products, especially when users want to replace old models or want to purchase a brand new type of merchandise. However, the price they pay for interests based marketing is way too high. Plus, the tracking technology can be destructive if falling to the wrong hands. 
Data leakage 
Database breach is rather a more general event rather than only limited to social media, back in 2014, a group of celebrity private photos was put online without permission. Those photos were acquired from apple i Cloud; attacker are suspected of breaching i Cloud security system using part of the codes obtained by hackers. A more recent event was the data breach of Ashley Madison. Since the website has poor security, attackers just downloaded the whole database and then everything was exposed. Even with defense mechanism it is only a matter of time for our information to be known, that's why in order to reduce the damage done from data breach, people should put as less real information online as possible. 
Conclusion 
	In this paper I discussed the reasons why we should not give our real information online and provided four major reasons for my claim. At the end of my argument I noticed that privacy related issues are not only limited to social media but also to the general internet. With the development of internet our conventional views about privacy are being challenged by the current situation. Maybe in the future people's understanding of privacy will change once and for all, privacy will always remain the topic that cannot be taken lightly. 
