Alcohol Related Problems in U.S. Colleges and their Preventions 
Alcohol Related Problems in U.S. Colleges and their Preventions 
"If something bad happens you drink in an attempt to forget; if something good happens you drink in order to celebrate; and if nothing happens you drink to make something happen." (Bukowski, 2009, p. 216) Like Charles Bukowski described in his book Women, drinking has become part of the daily life in America, college students are in no exception. However, with millions of youths turning into 21 years old, college campus is such a unique place that college students are among the most risky population related to drinking problems because of their characteristics, such as the lack of self-control and experience. Actually, due to both exterior and interior reasons, college drinkers are more easily to engage in binge drinking, suffering more serious consequences compared to other age groups and deserve more complete protections. In order to find out effective solutions to this issue, I conducted an interview with a beverage manager in Purdue University, as well as primary and secondary research. In the rest of this paper, I will demonstrate the reasons why college students are easily involved in binge drinking and how to prevent them from the negative effects of alcohol. 
According to a well-known research conducted by Harvard Medical School & Department of Medicine, "More than 30% of students reported one or more symptoms of abuse and more than 40% reported one or more symptoms of either abuse or dependence (on alcohol)." (Knight et al., 2002, p. 268), which means alcohol diagnosis has become quite prevalent among U.S. college drinkers. Another research suggested the situation that heavy drinking peaks during late adolescence and early adulthood and is especially common among 18 to 24 year-old young adults who attend college (Hingson et al., 2005, p. 259). And these similar research results are not accident. In college campuses, students spend most of their time in a totally new and independent environment compared to high school campuses, in addition with a higher demand of social recognition as well as better studying skills. When facing with stress or unpleasant emotions, many of them choose alcohol as a "cure" instead of improving their own coping skills. According to Borsari, Murphy and Barnett (2007), negative self-image is positively related to heavy alcohol use among college students. Moreover, they also demonstrated that looking for sense of belonging in social facilitations is also a drinking motive. That explains why heavy drinkers often endorse drinking as a good way to draw attention and make friends in comparison with lighter drinkers. As I interviewed with Courtney J. Wade, the Catering & Beverage Manager of Purdue Memorial Union, she mentioned that while college students are in lack of parent's supervision, self-control, and the understanding of their own limits, they tend to "drink simply to get drunk" (personal communication, October 13, 2014). This can also be interpreted by the common mood that students are likely to rely on their perceptions of others' behaviors to guide their own. Because "everyone else does like that", college students can easily place themselves in a binge drinking situation, especially in a social occasion. High participation of drinking games in these occasions leads to the result as well. 
Although college binge drinking has been considered a severe problem by U.S. society, there's still different voice from researchers and academic institutions. Quinn and Fromme (2011) believe that non-college individuals actually experience more alcohol-related problems than college students. According to their article, this conclusion comes from the data analysis of 6,391 college students' and tallies with previous longitudinal findings by Helene R. White. Nonetheless, although the sample volume is huge, this conclusion only relied on samples from one college in the U.S., which can be highly affected by regional disparity and exceptional chance factors. Since most of other researches focusing on the same topic all indicated the opposing point of view with more data analysis from a larger range of samples covering at least 1/4 area in the U.S., this claim is not persuasive and typical enough and still cannot become the mainstream view comparatively. 
Apart from the influence factors in college campus environment, there're also interior reasons for students' drinking issue. As stated in an article concerning about the competing factors that influence college students, personalities play an important role in deciding their drinking behaviors (Quinn et al., 2011, p. 629). Every specific individual has different needs of sensation seeking, which has a positive relationship with binge drinking. When a person has high desire for sensation seeking and risk tolerance, he/she is more likely to involve in heavy drinking behaviors. Other factors affecting students' behavior choice include pre-college alcohol use and parental influences. Despite the minimum drinking age of 21 in the U.S., a large amount of freshmen still come to college with established drinking patterns which are generally maintained or even increased during the 4-year school life. In Borsari's research, "25% of students who didn't engage in heavy episodic drinking adopted this style of alcohol use during their first year." (p. 2066). Additionally, parents' attitudes toward alcohol strongly affect students' drinking style, especially in the first two years of college. Those experiencing worse consequences from alcohol use are proved to have greater levels of parental approval for drinking, especially from their mothers (p. 2067). Therefore, compared to peers, parental influence is even more potent for college students since it's usually established in the early stage of drinking and can affect their decisions subconsciously in a long period of time. 
Based on the analysis above, college students have less family- and full-time job related responsibilities as well as more temptations and spare time in the campuses compared to other age groups. Thus I have reasons to believe that they get involved in binge drinking much easier and undertake worse consequences. Hence better alcohol prevention policies should be implemented to protect them. As for this issue, Hingson, Heeren, Winter and Wechsler (2005) suggested that U.S. colleges ought to enhance the collaboration with campus-related communities to eliminate the incentive factors of binge drinking (p.274). This is a rather important part of prevention strategies since environment has proved to be highly influential on students' drinking behaviors. Besides, screening is an effective tool in recognizing at-risk students. As mentioned previously, both the extent of sensation seeking and pre-college alcohol use have positive relationship with binge drinking. That's not all. Race, gender, and religiosity also link to different drinking types. Anglo-Americans, male, and students with less religious belief generally drink the most in campus (Borsari et al., 2005, p. 2065). Therefore, I strongly suggest that U.S. colleges require students to finish online assessment regularly taking these factors as potential indicator of alcohol-related risk, in order to help identify at-risk students and prepare for intervention in advance. Furthermore, increasing students' alternative activities in their free time is also a good choice for colleges. Interesting volunteer work and alcohol-free parties can reduce students' time contacting with alcohol. Meanwhile, improving socialization and stress coping skills will help release students from drinking heavily under these anxious situations. Borsari (2005) and his team also suggested that because students' demand for alcohol beverages is extremely price sensitive, college should also make effort on increasing the price and reduce the availability of alcohol. From the government's perspective, they should enforce the minimum drinking age law, increase alcohol server-training as well as the cost of liquor license, and increase state alcohol taxes (Borsari et al., 2005, p. 2072). Finally, parental interventions should be included as well. They should be realized how much can pre-college education affect a student's drinking behavior, and they should also receive guidebooks regarding the consequences of college binge drinking and direct their kids correctly on alcohol use. 
In one word, all the preventions listed above are to change the culture of college drinking and protect students from the negative effect of alcohol. Youths from 18-24 years old in the colleges are more vulnerable exposed to alcohol than any other group, and they deserve more attention and protection from school, communities, government, and parents. Although researchers and scholars in the nationwide have put forward thousands of ideas concerning this issue, the practical implementation of the preventions in most campuses is still not satisfactory. Yet, college students themselves should always keep in mind what Fitzgerald (1925) said in The Great Gatsby, "It's a good advantage not to drink among hard drinking people."(p. 398). Hopefully, there'll be better strategies applied in the future to create an environment for college students to enjoy alcohol safely and pleasantly. 
