12/11/2015 
The SAT as the Predictor of College Success 
	The SAT is an American standardized test founded in 1926 with the purpose of gauging students' performance in college. This test, in present, comprises of the core math and writing section, where students are instructed to answer questions testing their quantitative and verbal ability in a limited time period. The optional SAT II is also available for students intending to focus more on their science and social science mastery. In general, the SAT makes college admissions easier by placing students into spectrums based on their SAT score - this way, colleges are well-informed about a student's academic performance. Despite the SAT being one of the dominant standardized test in the United States and is used pervasively in institutions to gauge students' performance pre-entering college, its flaws, which include its questionable validity and reliability, outweigh its practical benefits to ease college admissions - this can be shown in the rising number of universities in the United States omitting the need for the SAT in its admissions. 
The SAT drives core knowledge away from students. In other words, since the SAT was introduced, the whole purpose of learning, which is to discover and experience knowledge, was slightly taken away. Individually, the SAT might have created a misconception between students about aptitude - it is common to see students with a high SAT score being praised as "intelligent," and this works vice versa to students having a low SAT score. This is also true when it comes to the school itself, where awards or scholarships are given to those who excel in any standardized test. Although it is not wrong to do this, because it bestows a sense of motivation for a student's hard work, this "endowment" made students to define success as possessing the best test score, and what I am concerned with are the students who do not excel in the test - they might be demotivated due to having acknowledged of where they are in the "success spectrum," and because of that, they are driven by the made-up boundary; this situation relates to the Emotional Security Theory proposed by psychologist Dr. William E. Blitz, which states a person will build the tenancy to be demotivated after realizing his or her weakness; some symptoms include having a low self-esteem about oneself. Instead of making college admissions easier, the SAT might have flushed numbers of potential candidates who could show their talent on test papers, thus glorifying students with good test taking ability. 
Besides individuals, schools are also affected by the obsession of the standardized test; a school's success, nationally, is defined by a comparable variable between other schools in the United States, which is its students average standardized test score. This causes institutions, at some point, to coerce students to perform well in their tests. Students in these schools will not only feel pressured to learn, but are also likely to be weeded out in the harsh-paced environment - although this might sound as if all schools are racing to be on top of the rankings, but keep in mind that there are awards given tentatively, whether in terms of prizes or funding, for "successful schools" that achieved a respectful average test score. Students are not the only ones being pushed - teachers also have to deal with their delegation to meet the school's target, and this cause teachers to "teach for the test" instead of exposing students to an intuitive approach of a subject. The SAT itself was structured in a way that students could answer with a rule of thumb, by crossing out the wrong answer, and making a guess in a short time period - these are not intuitive. Because of this, students are taught to learn rigidly on the test, and the lack of intuition will not guarantee a students' success in college because most of its evaluations are not strictly formatted. These causes mentioned earlier, might collectively lead students to spending most of their time studying to prepare for a test, rather than giving more attention to explore knowledge. 
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, American Time Use Survey 
Above is a research conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in the United States. To summarize, high school students generally spend more time studying per day than college students. One leading factor of why this happens is because of the presence of external standardized tests - the SAT and the ACT. Although these graphs do not match in terms of variables used, I roughly modelled an estimation between both graphs' study hours, where high school students spend 32% of their day studying, while college students spend 20% of that. Assumptions, for simplification purpose, are made as follows: students in high school are not employed, college students are studying full-time. In a nutshell, the external test given to students seem to fail in mimicking college life. Studying all the time, in fact, does not ensure good grades in college because students are evaluated based on how well they present, work in a team, research, and many more. 
While the SAT does not reflect a student as a whole, its scores could also be affected by external factors - causing inaccurate "aptitude" measurement. "External factors" in this context means a candidate's outer conditions before a test that might affect test scores. For example, sickness, stress, and injury. By common sense, a healthy student performs better in a test than an ill student - this is because peoples' motor and thinking ability is tied to their health on a certain day, however an optimal health condition on a fixed test day is not guaranteed. Some students have to deal with unexpected illness while sitting for a test, and what makes it more unfortunate is that the test score is evaluated on just the specific day; college admissions do not care about what happen to a student during a test, what they see is a piece of paper with a test score. This shows that although the SAT was made for a fair assessment between students, the scores might not tell how a student performs optimally - the scores may be "polluted" by health factor. The stress and tension caused by the test itself could also affect how a student will do on the test - this can be coined into a term called "test anxiety," a psychological term introduced by Spielberger & Vagg, 1995. According to Spielberger, test anxieties is a common syndrome ingrained in students; there is no way to avoid test anxiety. Test anxiety is similar to stage fright, everybody has it; it is just the matter of how people handle stage fright, and so does test anxiety. The only difference in pre-test stress level among students is how well they manage the syndrome. The test anxiety syndrome, as a matter of fact, disrupts the purpose of a test to be standardized because not all students could handle stress very well. In other words, students' scores are affected by their personal stress, and this could be worsen by outside detrimental factors such as financial problems, childhood trauma, or family conflicts. In addition, test anxiety may also come from tense competition among students, and one who experience this is Kshiraga, a sophomore SAT candidate, who was very involved in the rat race to achieve the "perfect score." Her depression was illustrated in a conversation with a health journalist: "I felt that something I had spent so much time on (the SAT) should be perfect." (Ksrshirsaga, 3). Kshiraga is one student who volunteered to express her feelings on the SAT, what about the unseen ones? Her case, based on general observation on other SAT candidates, is most likely not personal. In short, test anxiety can be a concealed reason of why SAT scores vary among students. 
Students' schooling condition may also be one of the external factors affecting test scores. In general, students who came from a community whose members care less about education tends to have harder time struggling with the SAT - this is shown in the difference in SAT scores between students in rural and urban areas. Put aside the fact that rural areas have less facilities available - Let's go deeper into the community itself. Students' in urban areas tend to achieve higher scores due to the competition they have among students. Those in rural areas, on the other hand, might not have the competing environment. Below are bar graphs comparing SAT scores among different levels of parental education: 
Source: The Washington Post 
Although the graph above does not distinguish the difference between people living in rural and in urban areas, parental education highly relates to where a community lives. A community living in urban areas possesses higher education than that of rural areas. Culturally, the two communities differ in their perspective on education. To the urban community, education is a criteria for survival and for approval by the community. People in the rural areas, on the other hand, hold on to their traditions and some of them have jobs inherited within a family, which also means that their chance of gaining approval by the community is not affected by education - this is what was meant by "having less concern on education." Although having a certain test score is under the choice of the specific student, some students in "laid back areas" who wished to achieve higher could not get a better score because they do not gain support, whether financially or emotionally, similar to those in urban areas. At the same time, the SAT is claimed to be fair to all students - but how could it be fair if students are not given equal conditions pre-sitting the test? The scores may vary due to different students' living environment. 
Source: Fair Test, College Board. 
	The bar chart above was taken from a research made by the founder of the test itself, College Board. Based on the information above, a student's test score is directly proportional to his or her affluence. This might happen because affluent students are given the advantage to prepare in a better test prep and environment. Poor financial aided students, on the other hand, are unlikely to reach resources similar to their wealthy counterpart. The SAT test itself is not free per sitting, and this limits the amount of retake these students could make. In general, the purpose of the test to be standardized is also perturbed by financial factors. 
Next, the SAT does not reflect a student holistically. It is true that the SAT was not meant to do so - It is claimed to only complement college admissions. However, most colleges in the United States place the SAT as their priority when it comes to admissions. It is common to see students getting rejected admission because they do not achieve the college's "average SAT score." Unlike high school grades, the SAT gauges student based on a single factor, or at most, verbal and mathematical skills. This ignores other important traits such as creativity, motivation and discipline - or to be specific, non-cognitive traits that play significant roles in one's life. Because of this, Universities in the United States started omitting the SAT because they had too much "good test takers" that could not solve problems within their expectations. George Washington University, D.C., introduced the "Test-Optional Policy" to get its aimed holistic students. Up to present, colleges started to realize that the SAT seem to have very small effects to their college academically - even Scott Jaschik, a higher education journalist, admitted that the "difference the SAT made are so small as to be trivial." (Jaschik, 8). The reason why is because students treat the SAT as a typical examination they usually had - a number of students will cram whatever information they have before the examination, and release them during the test. When this happens, it is common that students forgot what they learned before the test. Students tend to forget what they crammed because those information before the test have no important meaning tied to them - they were just for the test. Despite the fact that tests are easily forgettable, colleges still expect students to perform well as they did in their SAT. 
In conclusion, the SAT has its unseen deficiencies in predicting students' performance - and because of this, the American education department should take measure on this for a better future of the education system. Revamping a massive student assessment is crucial because it affects students nationwide and it defines a student's future education, which also means future life. From this research, I not only learn the flaws of the SAT - but also the alternatives to a better education system. The first one, which is also the general conclusion of the research, is to abolish or at least place less weight on the SAT in college admissions. By doing this, students are assessed based on their past schooling experiences, instead of being judged on a score evaluated on a single day. This alternative, however, is under the choice and the jurisdiction of the college itself. Next is a suggestion agreed in an interview with <name> (<position>), which is to provide more space for essays in college applications. This allows students to reflect more about themselves and tell how they could fit into their desired college. Finally, a solution which is brought up by most SAT opponents, is to place more weight on college grades and assignments rather than the SAT. High school grades are proven by William C. Hiss to give a better prediction on students' performance. In his study entitled "Defining Promise: Optional Standardized Testing Policies in American College and University Admissions." Hiss found that there are no differences in graduation rate between students who submit their standardized test score (SAT/ACT) and students who do not. This research was made in the same "test-optional" college, and the average high school GPA in the school are generally the same. This shows that the core driver in students' academic performance depends on how well a student do their assignments, how disciplined they are, and how well do they apply soft skills. 
