ENGL 106i 
P5d3_arp 
April 28, 2016 
The Existence of Vampires 
Do vampires really exist? Do they really walk among us? In general, not many people considering those questions are true, but we need validation besides simply just saying. I've been doing a research of the coexistence of vampires and humans other than in the fictions. So far, after I had investigated the importance of confirming of the being of vampires, I did an interview with Debbie Stevenson, an animal science expert, to find the possible explanation of vampirism regarding of vampire-like animals and disease. Moreover, I looked into three published articles about vampires to validate the existence of vampires. As a result, I can make the statements that vampires do not exist among us. 
Things always exist for a reason, so all the myths about vampires do not come from nowhere. When I was a teenager, I was obsessed with all the supernatural like vampires. This is why I chose to make vampires as the topic as my research. As we take it to the top of the food chain, it is highly possible to have predators like vampires to keep the balance of the nature. Since our human rely on our brain to survive, we have very fragile bodies. To make sure the prosperity of humans, it is essential to validate the existence of the vampires, before we put money and effort to build defensive weapons against vampires. Otherwise, it is still very assuring for people to know that we live in a peaceful world without any kind of threatens. (Shi, 2016) 
At first, I looked this argument from biological aspect. The folktales of all the vampire stories can be related to animals and disease. Vampire bats are the only mammals that feed on blood. Their behaviors are very similar to vampires, as they usually come out at night, they have sharp teeth, and what's more important is they carry rabies. When vampire bats bite people, they pass rabies to human. People who get infected are very likely to act like a vampire, as they get irritable and fear water. This is probably where all the stories come from. My interviewee Mrs. Stevenson does not believe that vampires exist. In her opinion, the habits of vampires are against the basic rule of nature. There's no way for a human-like creature to only live on blood except bats. Mrs. Stevenson also said that vampire bats are the main source of rabies rather than dogs and cats, because domesticated animals usually get vaccinated. Therefore, the conclusion I drew from this interview is negative. (Shi, 2016) 
Next, the origins of vampire stories can be found in history. Bram Stoker, who is also known as Vlad the Impaler, is one of the historical archetypes of vampires. The way Stoker rules was cruel, as he made his people suffer as much as possible by torturing them. People were so scared of him, therefore the stories of him became the stories of vampires. Liza Bundasen (1998) researched vampires regarding the origins and archetypes of vampires, which indirectly disprove the being of vampires. Most of the vampire legends can be found explanation from Bundasen's (1998) research. 
Finally, from mathematical calculations, although my earlier assumption that the vampires could be the predators of humans sounds reasonable, it is regardless of the decrease in human population. Since there is no predators for vampires, the human would became extinct if the vampires keep feeding. The calculations did by Efthimiou and Gandhi (2006) and two of the mathematical models calculated by Strielkowski, Lisin, and Welkins (2006) used scientific way to disprove the existence of vampires, as their authors pointed out that the coexistence would lead to a great imbalance of the populations of humans and vampires. (Shi, 2016) 
However, Bundasen (1998) also mentioned that the stories could be the protection of the vampires, and all the calculations and models are all come from fictions. There are people saying that real vampires exist in both our society and their own communities. I found a blog online, and the author says that he has been studying ethnography of the real vampires living in New Orleans and Buffalo for five years. Also there are also comments under the blog say that they are actually "vampires" and can help people turn into vampires if they want. (Browning, 2015). In my opinion that the blog and comments are just making a show, since they need to get people's attention to make money and all these articles are not academic at all. Those so called studies of real vampire are all faked. 
So far, by looking up the existence of vampires from biological, historical and mathematical aspects, the origins of vampires' behavior in fictions have been found by Mrs. Stevenson, the myths in history have been unveiled by Bundasen (1998), and the math problems have been solved by the calculations. I can now confidently make a conclusion that the vampires do not exist. 
Reference 
Bundasen, Liza (1998). The Natural History of Vampires. Volume 6. Retrieved from 
http://preserve.lehigh.edu/cas-lehighreview-vol-6/2 
Strielkowski, W., Lisin, E., & Welkins, E. (2013). Mathematical models of interactions 
between species: peaceful co-existence of vampires and humans based on the models derived from fiction literature and films. Applied Mathematical Sciences, 7(10), 453-470. 
Efthimiou, C. J., & Gandhi, S. (2006). Cinema Fiction vs Physics Reality: Ghosts, 
Vampires and Zombies. Retrieved from http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0608059. 
Stevenson, D. (2016, March 21). Personal Interview. 
Shi, Y. (2016). Research about the Existence of Vampires in our Real Life. Purdue University, 
West Lafayette, IN, U.S. 
Shi, Y. (2016). Interview Report of the Research of Vampire. Purdue University, West Lafayette, 
IN, U.S. 
Shi, Y. (2016). Synthesis of Published Articles of the Vampires' Existence. Purdue University, 
West Lafayette, IN, U.S. 
Browning, J. E. (2015). Real-Life Vampires Exist, and Researchers Are Studying Them. 
Retrieved from http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/crux/2015/03/26/real-life-vampires-exist/#. Vx P8v OIr Lct 
2 
