Racism Towards International Students 
The United States is a country of immigrants. People arrive to this country with many different objectives. Most of this people come with the objective of studying in a good university in order to succeed in life whether they stay in the United States, or they return to their home country. These international students are often faced with racism, which can affect negatively to them in many ways. In order to avoid these negative consequences in the international student's college experience, universities should effectively inform international students of their rights and of the ways to get help. This way, international students can be aware that they are being helped, and the university can effectively help international students, thus eradicating racism. 
Racism and discrimination can cause very negative effects in international students. It can affect their emotional stability and health, and also their academic success. This is a big issue and is not overlooked by international students. Many people know that racism is bad and should not be practiced, but they do not know the actual consequences and effects of it in international students. According to Aurelio Curbelo Ph D, racism can affect international students until the point of committing suicide. This shows that racism in fact is very influential amongst international students, and that letting racism remain alive in the university environment, can cause international students to have a very bad experience studying in the United States, which can ultimately cause a decrease in international students migrating to study in the US. 
It is true that international students have many other issues particular to them, like culture shock, problems with the weather, food, language, being homesick, which can also affect the student in general. This can give people the opportunity to think that racism is not the factor that causes the international student's academic failure or depression, but instead, these other factors are the real cause. Yet a study conducted by Chris Glass and Christina Westmont about the sense of belongingness in international students shows that international students who were not affected by discrimination or racism did not have a negative effect on their academic success and had a better emotional heath. This allowed them to have better cross cultural relationships with domestic students (112). Even though international students have other concerns, the one that ultimately affects them, is racism. Having this in mind, the most effective way to ensure the success, or the best academic performance and the healthiest emotional behavior of international students, universities must focus more on eradicating racism and discrimination against international students than in satisfying the other issues of international students exemplified above. 
Is very important that universities take part in the eradication of racism in order to make their international guests a little more comfortable. This is because international students not only are also part of the university, and therefore are entitled to feel comfortable as they fellow domestic students; but also because they are very valuable to the US educational system. According to Jenny Lee, the United States is by far the country that hosts most international students in the world, and this can be seen in most of the American universities (Lee 28). Being the case, international students actually represent a big economic income to the United States, and therefore, the universities should take action in order to avoid racism to keep heir international guests more comfortable. 
Of course that in earlier times, racism was much worse. If we look at the present case from that perspective, racism has decreased significantly. It is also true that universities already offer help in extreme cases of racism. However, according to Aurelio Curbelo, racism is still a reality, and the most common type of racism, which is micro-aggression, is the one that has not been approached yet. The universities usually work hard to make sure international students become a part of the university, but once they are part of it, they do not put much effort to keep them in (Lee 28). This means that even though racism is not as bad as it was in slavery times, it is still an issue; it affects international students, and needs to be addressed as a real problem by the university. The fact that in earlier times racism was much worse does not mean that does not exist now. Universities should take this in account in order to avoid racism by domestic students and faculty towards international students, and to aware international students that they have the right to report a case of this matter, so they now they are not alone. 
International students from all over the world come to the United States to study in order to become successful in life. Many of these students have overcome many barriers and one of the hardest one is racism. In order for them to succeed, universities have to help out and take action against racism in such a way that not even micro-aggression is a factor that limits international students to succeed. If the universities, the faculty and domestic students can help eradicate racism towards international students, they can effectively achieve their goal, which is success. 
