Who are Otaku? 
'Otaku' is a Japanese term which we used to define people who are obsessive with animations, games and manga deeply. Otaku have been a much-maligned social group in Japan for long time since the 'Otaku Murder' event, in which a young Otaku who killed and mutilated four girls between four and seven during August 1988 and June 1989. But after several decades, the negative effect of this event has faded, Otaku become an acceptable social group again. But some people still concern about Otaku. They thought Otaku still have potential dangers to Japanese society. Are Otaku really negative? My answer is no. 
My first reason is that Otaku have huge contribution to Japanese society. According to Mariko. M. Wei, PH.D. and Associate Professor of Japanese and Linguistics from Purdue University, Otaku usually work in scientific and technic areas. Their careers are commonly engineers, programmers and even scientists. These are all unreplaceable industries of Japanese economics. Moreover, Professor Mariko also pointed out that since Otaku have jobs with high salaries, they would like to put more money in animation, games, related products of animation and electronic products than non-Otaku people. As a result, the economic impact of otaku has been estimated to be as high as 2 trillion ($18 billion) every year. 
My second reason is that Otaku are creating and spreading Japanese culture. In "Otaku Culture and Its Discontents" written by Takahiro Ueda, a professor from Ritsumeikan University, he believes that Otaku culture has already became an impartible component of Japanese culture. Since these days, the products which Otaku made like Japanese animations, manga, games are pretty popular all around the world. Such as, Hayao Miyazaki's animation films, has very high popularity around the world, many of them were given the highest prize in film area included the Oscars. As a result, when a foreigner heard about Japan, he or she would probably first think of Japanese animations. Even Professor Mariko mentions that she would like her students to get to know Japan through Otaku culture because it is really attractive and interesting. So in my opinion, Otaku are helping promote the cultural communication between Japan and other countries around the world. 
I strongly suggest that people should get to know about Otaku culture before they make a conclusion on Otaku. Since Otaku may have unpleasant appearance, some people are unwilling to get into Otaku's world. But actually, Otaku have their own difficulties, as I mention before, Otaku are usually in careers with large amount of work, they may have really little free time to care about their appearance. Therefore, Otaku culture has no connection with Otaku's appearance. Consequently, I think people really can take a look of Otaku's world, it is really fun! 
Although I agree Otaku are good to Japan, some Japanese civilians still got refutations against me. First, some people think that 'Otaku Murder' may appear again in the future, Otaku are still dangerous to Japanese society. Indeed, I cannot guarantee that the same horrible event like 'Otaku Murder' would not happen again, and actually, there still some people commit the similar crime like the 'Otaku Murder'. But actually, those criminals are not Otaku any more. During the interview with Professor Mariko, she expresses her own opinion to 'Otaku Murder' in a Japanese civilian's view. She says that in fact, people don't count those criminals in Otaku. Several reports also show that those murders actually have psychological problems. In conclusion, she thought that there is nothing with Otaku this social group, the murders kill little girls only due to their own problems. 
Other Japanese civilians think that Otaku culture seems useless to the reality. I cannot say their judgment is wrong. But in my own view, I think these people would think that Otaku culture is useless to reality is because that Otaku culture too new to Japanese civilians. According to "Otaku Culture and Its Discontents", Ueda suggests that Otaku culture is just like a new type of aesthetic. Just like the Japanese traditional aesthetics "Wabi" and "Sabi" first introduced to the world by Arata Isozaki in his exhibition in Paris in 1978, people in Europe cannot accept them immediately. It will always take some time for people to accept a new type of aesthetic view. Therefore, it is not strange to find that Otaku culture to be rejected by certain part of Japanese civilians. So what want to say is that Otaku culture is definitely not useless, people who reject it now would accept it one day. 
All in all, I think that Otaku are positive to Japanese society. They are creating both wealth and culture for Japan. People who cannot accept them should take a try to get to know about Otaku culture. As they get further understanding of this new type of aesthetic view, they would probably change their views on Otaku. 
