Entrepreneurship Education Should Be Provided To All Majors 
	Entrepreneurs are not born but made based on experiences. Entrepreneurship education is significant to students in all majors who want to learn about entrepreneurship. Today, the number of young entrepreneurs has been growing rapidly. The support of education for entrepreneurship is more important than ever. Many universities have provided minor or major programs in entrepreneurship. However, the education system is not perfect. For example, most entrepreneurship education is within the college of business schools (Volkman, 2004), but the needs of entrepreneurship education are from all schools and all majors (Shinner et al., 2009). So, entrepreneurship education should be provided for all majors at universities. 
	Entrepreneurship education can make a big difference in the way of becoming an entrepreneur. Those who had entrepreneurship education before they started their business have a better chance to succeed. They had a better understanding of what entrepreneurship is and they developed their personal skills during the education process. Systematic education provides students with a better mindset of entrepreneurship process. Thomas Pittz (2014) came up with a five-steps model of experiential entrepreneurship education. The model includes -improving personal skills, selecting the business the person likes, developing a marketing system, and building a network. These five steps are necessary for entrepreneurs. They help prepare for beginning a business in the future. In addition, systematic education provides opportunities for students to develop their personal skills, have mindsets of what an entrepreneurship process is like, and really think about which direction to go in the future. As a bridge between school and career, universities are places to prepare for future jobs. Universities have the responsibility to provide such opportunities for students. 
Needs of entrepreneurship education are from all majors. Entrepreneurship education is necessary to all students who want to be entrepreneurs in the future. Entrepreneurs can be from any majors or backgrounds. Many universities have entrepreneurship courses and even entrepreneurship undergraduate majors in their schools of business. More and more students take entrepreneurship as their major or manor to get a better chance to be success. However, this is not fair for those who want to be entrepreneurs in other majors. Many technology students, engineering students, and medical students have the same desire of starting their own business in the future as well. But it is very hard for them to get entrepreneurship educations in colleges. They want to start their own business, but they don't receive entrepreneurship training. Therefore, entrepreneurship education is essential for all students who intend to be entrepreneurs, not only just for business major students. 
	 In providing students of all majors the equal chance to learn about entrepreneurship, Purdue University is a successful example. Purdue University does a great job of showing how an entrepreneurship education program can benefit all students on campus. In my interview with Ms. <name> , an adviser in Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program at Purdue, she introduced this great program to me. She told me that before the program started, Purdue heard a lot of suggestions from various majors that they wanted to learn about entrepreneurship. So when Purdue launched this program in Fall 2005. It aimed to provide entrepreneurship education for all majors. The other reason Purdue made it a certificate program rather than a major or manor is that Purdue does not want to extend too much of students' time of study. The program provides students with all kinds of great opportunities like the study-aboard program and internship within this certificate program. In order to complete the certificate, students are required to complete two core courses: Entrepreneurship 200 and 310, two option courses and one capstone course or experience. The requirement is reasonable. Students can get the necessary education. At the same time, it is not too much work so students can stick with their own plans of study and graduate on time. 
	So far, the Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Program has accomplished a huge success. It became one of the largest multidisciplinary programs in the country. (Rita Baker, personal communication, 2015) The number of students from different majors in this program has grown. In 2013, 22% of the students in this program were from The College of Technology and 15% of them were from The School of Engineering. Only 17% of the students were from The School of Management. This statistic shows students from other majors take entrepreneurship education as well. Right now, the program is working on partnering with EPICS (Engineering Projects in Community Service) and other organizations on campus to get more students involved in the program. The Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program at Purdue definitely made a great example of how to fit entrepreneurship education in students' study plans. 
In conclusion, entrepreneurship education is important to all students who want to be entrepreneurs in the future. Systematic education provides students with the basic knowledge of entrepreneurship process. Students from all majors should stand equal rights to learn about entrepreneurship. The certificate program at Purdue is a great example of providing students in all majors with entrepreneurship education that other universities can learn from. But I am sure there are other ways to balance students' study plans and their desire for entrepreneurship education as well. Hopefully in the future, all students can have the chance to learn about entrepreneurship as they want to. 
