Filling the Gap between Traditional Martial Arts and Modern Sports: 
The Development of Kendo and Archery 
Filling the Gap between Traditional Martial Arts and Modern Sports: 
The Development of Kendo and Archery 
What is the origin of many of the competitive sports nowadays? Why it seems that those sports are keeping losing their relationship with the former parts? These questions have haunted in my mind for several years. I have been practiced kendo and archery for years. I know that these two kind of sports can not come into existence for no reason. What can be seen from them every day are only superficial rules of competition. From doing research on the deeper part of history, equipments development, techniques development, and cultural influences, I found out that there is a strong relationship between these two kinds of competitive sports and their former forms- kenjutsu(traditional Japanese sword art) and traditional archery. Differences are also inevitable in many parts such as basic techniques, equipments and philosophies. Many people around me hold the idea that it is useless to link traditional martial arts and modern sports together. But I think reinforcing this connection can definitely contribute to the protection of not only kenjutsu and traditional archery but also many other kinds of traditional martial arts which are unique parts of traditional cultures. What's more, it can also promote the perfection of the training system and rules of some specific sports. 
Modern kendo is the continuation of ancient kenjutsu and the reflection of some special history periods. From the interview of Imafuji sensei, I got to know that both Meiji Reform and the prohibition of martial arts have great impacts to the development of kendo, which directly caused the differences in hitting techniques and foot works between modern kendo and kenjutsu. 
(personal communication, November 3 2014) In modern kendo, people use gentle but quick hits to get points efficiently. But in kenjutsu, which is a practical combat martial art, those weak hits are not proper because they can not cause major wounds to kill the enemies. The difference of footwork is caused by different equipments. Kendo shinai(training bamboo sword) is longer than the bokken(wooden sword) and katana(metal sword) used in kenjutsu, which makes it harder to hold and keep balance while moving in big motions. So, the footwork in modern kendo is mainly small but dense steps. On the contrary, the footwork in kenjutsu is much bigger and the body center of gravity rise and fall frequently. In Robert Chaffins'article(2014)"Kendo and Kenjutsu", he made the definition"kenjutsu is to kill opponents and kendo is to make others live"(p.1). From Figure 1, it can be seen that the kendo before the Second World War is a combination of kenjutsu and modern kendo. But it is interesting to see that modern kendo still keeps ten sets of kata(kendo form) practice. According to Imafuji sensei, this number in kenjutsu is usually fifty or even more. But we can still find out that modern kendo inherits this important tradition from its ancestor. Kata is not the only thing which modern kendo and kenjutsu has in common. The inner philosophy still remains the same. As David Aguero(2009) said in his article "What is Kendo", "the purpose of practicing kendo is to mold the mind and body.(p.1)"Both of kenjutsu and modern kendo have a requirement of respect, courage and steadiness, which is also part of the samurai culture. 
Figure 1: Kendo before the Second World War is a combination of kenjutsu and modern kendo 
In archery, the relationship becomes more complex, because this is a world wide sport which has existed for thousands of years. In the article"The Asian war bow", Nieminen(2010) holds the point that"The Turko-Mongol composite recurve bow"(p.1) made a great contribution to the development of modern laminated material used in modern bows. In ancient Asia, people used organic glues to glue horn, tendon and wood/bamboo together in order to make the bow limbs. Although this kind of bow can be easily effected by bad weather, this design still spread quickly in most of the Asia countries and promoted the development of modern glass fiber reinforced epoxy resin and wood laminated bow limbs in 20th century. In the article "The First York" Sachers(2014) argues that modern archery competition is developed from " a sport for English gentlemen"(p.1) in the second half of the 18th century. From Figure 2, it can be seen that the archers in the beginning of 20th century are still using traditional English long bows to shoot in tournaments. Now, different accessories like stabilizer and arrow rest are usually attached to the modern target bows to increase the accuracy. But the step by step development of equipments also followed the history trend. About the target pattern, Sachers(2014) said that "First, George IV established a fixed number of rings and their colors, following the pattern used by the Finsbury archers, which had been in use since at least 1754."(p.1) So, the competition target pattern has remain the same for more than two hundred years. In shooting technique aspect, Gao(1637) used the expression that"it is the archer who shoot the arrow, not just the bow itself"(p.2) to explain that the basic shooting techniques that human beings used throughout the history should always remain the same. Although traditional Asian style use thumb to pull the string, which is quite different from the Mediterranean style( three fingers style) and release aid used in modern archery competitions, the key points of back muscle control and body balance are still the same. 
Figure 2: An archer shooting in an archery tournament in 1908 Figure 3: Traditional Chinese shooting style 
From what I discussed above, the close relationship between modern competitive kendo and ancient kenjutsu, traditional archery and modern competitive archery can be seen easily. Although a lot of differences in particular techniques have already emerged because of the specific history and technology gap, the similarities in philosophy, equipment, and muscle control cannot be overlooked. After that, the conclusion can be drawn that whoever want to get access to those traditional martial arts, I suggest that participating in the related sports which have more systematic training techniques can be a good start. To whom wants to be successful in particular sports, they can trace back to the history and find out more details about what their ancestors have done to reach the goal. Both of these two kinds of people can benefit from this research. Then, the gap between traditional martial arts and modern sports can be filled to some extent. 
Key words: kendo, kenjutsu, traditional bow, traditional archery, traditional martial arts 
