4/17/2016 
Argumentative Essay 
	On February, 5th, 1999, a surprising event occurred in the US. Amadou Diallo, an unarmed Black man, was killed by four NYPD officers. When Diallo was pulling out his wallet and trying to show them identification, the officers fired forty-one shots at him in seven seconds since they mistook the wallet for a gun. Looking to another case happened on August 9, 2014, Michael Brown, an eighteen-year-old black man, unarmed was shot by a white police officer, Darren Wilson. When we go through our memory, we can come up with a lot of examples proving that "white people shoot unarmed black suspects more often than unarmed white suspects", which is called "shooter bias" (Markman). In fact, this kind of unfair bias and the stereotype of black men (e.g. black men are dangerous) cause the negative influences for those innocent people. From my perspective, the stereotypes do negatively affect our today's society. 
	According to Baumeister and Bushman, the definition of stereotype is that "beliefs that associate groups of people with certain traits" (Baumeister and Bushman). It is one of the "heuristics", that is, the mental shortcuts that people use to quickly estimate the likelihood of uncertain event. In fact, stereotype is usually divided into two perspectives, "perceiver" and "target" (Khan, Benda and Stagnaro). For the perspective of perceivers, most of the stereotypes appear unconsciously. For instance, some college students are required to list the traits that can best describe people from different ethnic groups. The results of this experiment show that the automatic stereotypes can be formed due to either one's past experiences or the own opinions. As for targets, they, in fact, sometimes accept and believe that the stereotypes are actually true and may suffer from "stereotype threat" (Khan, Benda and Stagnaro, 5). 
For starters, the stereotypes can impair one's performance indirectly. The stereotypes may affect the people's anticipation of certain groups and thereby influencing the people's attitudes and behaviors. This phenomenon is called "self-fulfilling prophecy", which means "a prediction that ensures, by the behavior it generates, that it will come true" (Baumeister and Bushman). For example, correlation between IQ scores and socioeconomic status (SES), "0.40", has been proved repeatedly through experiments (Croizet and Claire, 588). The teachers will already have a stereotype that the students from poor families will have lower intelligence and perform worse than kids from middle-class families, which lowers the teachers' expectation for these poor kids. Their attitudes toward the students from low-status families will become negative thereby caring and teaching less to these students. The changes in teachers' attitudes and behaviors can actually render the students from low socioeconomic background perform badly and therefore prove the anticipation eventually. 
Futhermore, someone's potential abilities can be thwarted by stereotypes. As I mentioned in the second paragraph, "stereotype threat" is "the fear that one might confirm the stereotypes that others hold" (Baumeister and Bushman). For example, an African American may be afraid that if one fails a math exam, he or she may accepts that the failure substantiates the stereotype of low intelligence and thereby preventing him or her pursuing further on the mathematics. Besides, others may prevent someone from challenges that may cause him or her suffering from stereotype threat. For instance, Vikki Yuan, the person I interview was an Asian, and planning to major in psychology. Since Asian students are usually be stereotyped as good at mathematics but poor at humanities and liberal arts, she was always being told that she should change her plan and try to major in some subjects that Asians are good at. These suggestions may hurt her confidence and stop her from continue studying psychology. Although she has a lot of interests in psychology, her potential abilities in psychology may be impaired because of those who maintain stereotypes for her. 
It is certain that stereotypes are quite convenient since they provide us a way to judge others quickly and effortlessly. Since we are busy in the society and we do not have much time to judge each person carefully, the information provided by stereotypes are good enough for us to handle most of our lives. Besides, stereotypes sometimes can bring some positive influences to certain groups of people. For example, women are usually stereotyped to be poor at quantitative skills but good at verbal skills, while Asian American are thought to be the opposite. However, one experiment found that when their Asian identity was primed, Asian American women have better performance on quantitative skills but worse when their female identities are primed. This experiment definitely proved that the stereotypes can boost and improve the performance of certain social groups. 
Obliviously, it is kind of difficult to change people's opinions due to the "confirmation bias", that is, "the tendency to notice and search for information that confirms one's beliefs and to ignore information that disconfirms one's beliefs" (Baumeister and Bushman). However, we should not stop trying to fight against stereotypes. Since most of stereotypes happen unconsciously, it is necessary to educate more, let the public aware of it, and try to reduce it consciously. Also, the cooperation among different ethnic groups are needed. All of the groups should fight toward a common goal, and role models may be effective to lead a way. Besides the effort from the public, the "support of authorities, law, or customs" can be powerful and pervasive for people to change their minds (Khan, Benda and Stagnaro, 4). 
It is undoubted that stereotypes have some positive influences. It is quick and helps us save the efforts and sometime improves the performance of certain groups. However, the information provided by stereotypes can be inaccurate, and most of stereotypes can impair one's performances and thwart his or her potential capacities. In order to reduce the negative effects of stereotypes, it is necessary to educate the public and reduce it consciously. Also, the cooperation between different groups and the supports from powerful authorities and organization are needed to make the society a better place. 
Reference 
"Shooting of Amadou Diallo". WIKIPEDIA, 1 Apr. 2016. Web. 
"Shooting of Michael Brown". WIKIPEDIA, 16 Apr. 2016. Web 
Markman, Art. Shooter Bias and Stereotypes. Psychology Today. Web. 12 Oct. 2012. 
Baumeister, Roy F., and Bushman, Brad J.. Social Psychology and Human Nature. 4 th ed. Belmont, CA: Thomson Higher Education, 2008. Print. 
Khan, Saera R., Benda, Teena & Stagnaro, Michael N. "Stereotyping From the Perspective of Perceivers and Targets." Online Readings in Psychology and Culture 5.1(2012). Web. 
Croizet, Jean-Claude and Claire, Theresa. "Extending the Concept of Stereotype Threat to Social Class: The Intellectual Underperformance of Students From Low Socioeconomic Background." Pers Soc Psychol Bull 24. 6 (1998): 588-594. Web 
Shih, Margaret, Wout, Daryl A, and Hambarchyan, Mariam. "Predicting performance outcomes from the manner of stereotype activation and stereotype content." US : Educational Publishing Foundation 31(2014). Web 
