11/15/2015 
Outline 
The SAT as the Predictor of College Success 
Thesis: Despite the SAT being one of the dominant standardized test in the United States and is used pervasively in institutions to gauge students' performance pre-entering their college, its flaws, which include its questionable validity and reliability, surprisingly outweigh its practical benefits to ease college admissions. 
I. The SAT drives core knowledge away from students. 
A. It creates a rat race between students in aiming for higher score, instead of aiming for the core knowledge itself. 
i. "I felt that something I had spent so much time on (the SAT) should be perfect." (Krshirsaga, 3) 
B. Students spend more time doing exercises and preparation for the SAT instead of self-research and exploring a subject. 
C. High degree competitions could lead students to stress and depression. 
II. The SAT is biased to certain groups of students. 
A. Its fast paced, short time limit feature restrain "late-bloomer" students from processing their ideas. 
B. The test is designed to give advantage for good test takers who have higher probability of guessing the right answer without analytical judgment. 
i. "Moreover the nature of these standardized exams - fast-paced, multiple-choice "games" that put a premium on strategic guessing - means that they advantage students with strong test-taking skills" (Strauss, 5) 
III. SAT scores do not correlate well with intelligence, 
A. Studies show students' performance in college do not correlate well with the SAT score - at some times, college performance could contradict the SAT score. 
B. Researchers found that students' SAT score is highly influenced by their wealth, because it provides opportunity for them to invest for a better test prep. 
i. "Many New York City families will spend over $20,000 on SAT prep and top tutors charged over $600 an hour." (Hernandez, 5) 
C. Some parties took advantage of this flaw by making the SAT a form of business instead of education. 
D. Test papers, to some opponents, could be an unethical tool to measure intelligence. 
i. "No person's understanding or potential can be reduced to a number, and it is disrespectful to do so" (Weissglass, 4) 
IV. The SAT does not reflect a student holistically. 
A. The SAT measures student based on a single factor (verbal and math skills), while ignoring other important traits that play significant roles in a person's life especially the non-cognitive ones such as creativity, motivation, and discipline. 
B. Based on research, the SAT measures test taking ability instead of how well a student know about a subject. 
C. Universities are taking off the need for the SAT because they had too much "good test takers" but could not solve problems within their expectations; this makes the SAT seem useless in college admissions. 
i. "Differences the SAT made are so small as to be trivial." (Jaschik, 8) 
D. The SAT does not define a student's analytical and synthesizing skills due to its biased objective questions. 
V. SAT scores could be affected by external factors, causing inaccurate "aptitude" measurement. 
A. The stress and tension caused by the test itself could affect how a student will do on the test. 
B. Students' conditions vary on a specific test day. Some might be less mobile due to health conditions on the given date - and unfortunately, the whole score is evaluated on the specific date. 
C. Students' who came from a community whose members do not appreciate much about education tends to have a harder time struggling with the SAT. 
D. An SAT score could be dependent on a student's institution: a well facilitated school tends to provide students with better SAT preparation. 
i. "Some high schools have a lot of resources at their disposals. Their community is very involved, the text bases are good, their facilities are nice, their resources are great, so the kids have all these things at their disposals and I think that helps in learning their education." (<name>, Interview) 
VI. What needs to be changed in the education system 
A. Abolish or at least give less weight on the SAT in college admissions 
B. Provide more essays to give space for students to reflect themselves and tell how they could fit into their desired college 
C. Give more weight on college grades and assignments because they are proven by research to tell how a student will do in college. 
i. "Have good high school grades, they're almost certainly going to be fine in college." (Westervelt, 4) 
