P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 25, 2015 
Teaching Assistants Should Provide Limited Help 
Teaching assistants (TAs) are increasingly used in colleges. They undertake different tasks such as grading assignments, running quizzes and solving problems during the classes or office hours. At the same time, the students appreciate teaching assistants' help when the TAs solve their problems during the labs and classes. However, do TAs have any constraints when they are helping students? In my opinion, teaching assistants should only provide limited help for students to let them think more and learn the materials better. That is, rather than explaining all details of the answers, TAs should only give the general ideas to students. 
Moreover, the reduction in the time of solving some basic problems will let students have more opportunities to challenge more difficult problems. For example, the time of a recitation is so short that sometimes, TAs cannot cover all the questions. If the students can figure out some problems by themselves, TAs will have more time to push on with the teaching and propose harder problems. According to UT Graduate School (2010), "Establish your standards (within the instructors' guidelines) and stick to them. Your goal should be to provide intellectual challenge along with instructional support" (para.8). It points out that there should be a standard in teaching. Meanwhile, it is TAs' responsibility to ask students to work on more challenging problems and provide supports for students to solve them. Thus, if the time for solving some repetitive problems decreases, students will have more chances to challenge harder questions that will help them learn more. 
In addition, saving time on solving basic problems also ensures that more students will be helped. If TAs spend most time to answer some basic questions again and again in classes or labs, there will still be other questions left when the classes are over. Kostas Pagiamtzis (2006) mentioned, "There are questions that are too basic or off-topic to take class time to answer. It's okay to say there's not enough time to answer that question effectively and then offer to answer it outside of class time" (para.22). From a perspective of the author, he thought that basic questions took up too much time in the class. Instead, TAs should use the class time more efficiently to answer more significant questions. Obviously, it will save a lot of time if TAs only give the hints, which ensures there are more chances for students to receive help. Hence, if TAs has restrictions in their teaching, more students will be helped during classes. 
	Some people may argue that TAs are paid to work so they should provide help as much as possible. However, providing unlimited help will not benefit students. Instead, TAs should help students conduct individual thinking so that students can learn more by themselves. According to Kostas Pagiamtzis (2006), the point of a tutorial is to help students learn the course material through solving problems, which indicates that the TAs' goal is to help students achieve success in studying. Thus, by having constraints in tutoring, teaching assistants can help students to think more and learn the materials better. 
	In conclusion, it is more helpful if teaching assistants provide limited help for students. This can save a lot of time, so more students can be helped and more challenging problems can be solved in classes. In addition, providing limited supports helps students think more and learn the materials better with their own understanding. It will benefit the students in the future if they can learn to solve problems by themselves. 
