Argumentative Paper, Draft 3 
04/23/2016 
The Bitcoin is a Viable Option for Currency in the Future 
Introduction 
	The new form of "digital currency' (Nian & Chuen, 2015), the Bitcoin, has been a hot topic of discussion for the past few years, due to its tempting advantages, and disadvantages. Many argue that the bitcoin has a bright future, while others, like the famous economist Paul Krugman (2013), say that the bitcoin is "evil". The main concern with the bitcoin is to do with its safety and privacy. The privacy aspect perplexes the public whether it is a positive characteristic or not, while the fact that the bitcoin is entirely digital, plants doubt in the minds of the people regarding safety. In this paper, I argue that the bitcoin is bound to be successful in the future, and would be an additional option for currency in the world today. 
Background Information 
	The bitcoin was created by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2003, and has been implemented and used since 2008. It is a technology that exists only on the internet, and a network that makes currency transactions and transfers considerably faster. Since it is entirely based on the internet, it has been subjected to "attacks", which are unconventional manners in which a bitcoin is used for selfish purposes. The two most common attacks are "double spending" and "mixing" (<Name>, personal communication, February 26, 2016). Double spending is where the attacker tries to pay with the same bitcoin to different recipients, while he only pays once. Fortunately, this attack can be prevented by people known as miners, who "check and verify transactions to proceed" (<Name>, personal communication, February 26, 2016). Mixing is when the various senders and receivers of the bitcoin transactions cannot be traced back to the individual, which is why bitcoins are not regulated by banks or by the government, and is instead regulated by the miners who record these transactions in an online ledger known as the "blockchain" ("Hidden Flipside; Bitcoin's Future", 2014). So when person A sends some bitcoins to person B, the miners code on their computers to verify the transaction which is then recorded on the blockchain, Person B then receives the sent money in his "bitcoin wallet", an application on the computer or a mobile device that stores the bitcoin currency and keeps track of all personal transactions (Bitcoin.org). 
My Argument 
	The most important advantage the bitcoin has is that it is accessible at a global scale. So as a global entity, independent of regional economic inflation and free from any third party influence (Almazrua, 2014) makes this decentralized system a great platform for money transactions. Usually banks incur a large amount of fee for transactions, especially international ones. But using bitcoins would charge a very small fee, which is used as a proof of transaction, and is the same for all kinds of transactions. As a global currency, the bitcoin also has a huge advantage of taking an average of ten minutes for every type of transaction, which speeds up the process of money transfers by a large margin, especially international transfers (Badea & Rogojanu, 2014). Having a speedy process, without a large fee taxation, is an important feature that would bring the bitcoin to a larger audience, and would serve as a successful platform of money transfers in the future. And it is only 2016 today, 7-8 years from when the bitcoin was first introduced, and it has already gained millions of users across the globe, inspiring various business companies to adopt this additional system (P. M. Sanchez, personal communication, February 26, 2016), showing that the bitcoin is already on its road to success. 
	Regardless of the bitcoin's success today, a large number of questions about the privacy policy, or the anonymity, have been raised. Since the bitcoin is a decentralized system, it raises the question of trust, which is an essential part of the bitcoin's working. The purpose of the bitcoin is to maintain the anonymity of the sender and the receiver, which is why it appeals to millions of people today. While it succeeds in masking the identity of an individual, people argue that this is an easy platform for criminal activity, such as money laundering (P. M. Sanchez, personal communication, February 26, 2016). Even though this is true, it does not change the fact that money laundering and other such criminal activities do not already exist using other currencies (Godsiff, 2015). In fact, the bitcoin cannot have more anonymity that cash, and that it also prevents financial crimes (Bitcoin.org), hence, the existence of bitcoins is not going to increase criminal activity. Also, banks require a lot of personal information of a customer, which can be stolen easily when purchasing something through a credit card, which puts the customer's identity at risk (Walker, 2015). But the use of bitcoins requires very little personal information to be shared, and is much more private, which from a user's perspective is ideal. 
	The second pressing issue is the security of using bitcoins. Since this entity is not in the physical form and exists entirely on the internet without the backing of a third party, hacking into personal digital wallets or the bitcoin network as a whole to steal all the bitcoins is a large possibility, and has been done in the past. This aspect refrains people from investing in bitcoins. However, the actual risk of anyone hacking into the system today or in the near future is much lower than one might think it to be. The bitcoin itself is very difficult to hack into, and altering its value is protected by cryptographic functions (Baldwin, 2015). In addition, the public encryptions on the blockchain are so complicated that the power required to break that would be more than the power required to break down the entire bitcoin network, which makes the transactions extremely secure (Plassaras, 2013). 
	The last question to answer is whether the bitcoin can really succeed as a currency. Many argue that because bitcoin is not palpable, it does not qualify as a currency. But ever since this digital entity has been introduced to the world, it has grown in popularity, and today over 100,000 transactions take place per day (Blockchain.info, 2016), which shows that the bitcoin is successful as a currency. In Dowd and Hutchinson's (2015) example of Friedman's (1992) "The Island of Stone Money", the islanders use heavy stones shaped like disks to make payments. Instead of carrying it around as it was too heavy, the disks were placed in prominent places, and when ownership of the disk was to be passed on (similar to a bitcoin transaction), the owner would declare publicly of his transfer of ownership (similar to the recorded transactions on the blockchain). This decentralized system resembles that of the bitcoin network, which shows that the bitcoin can be used as a currency. 
Conclusion 
	The bitcoin achieves in holding anonymity and security between transactions, which helps to increase the number of investors in the digital market. It has grown in popularity which shows that more and more people are willing to invest in it, and that there is an element of trust in the bitcoin network and the decentralized system. Even though many do not agree it to be a currency, its widespread use today proves that it is indeed succeeding as a global currency, and has a brighter future in the long run. In terms of security, it is impossible to crack into the system presently and in the near future, but as technology is flourishing rapidly everyday, there is no doubt that there can be a foolproof system for the bitcoin network in the far future as well. As the world progresses into the future, the bitcoin will definitely surface to a wider audience of the world's population, as it is already a successful method for exchanging money. Of course, the choice of using bitcoins is up to each individual, and whether or not they use it, the bitcoin is bound to be a success in the future. 
