November 17, 2015 
The Research Value of Competitive Reality Television 
As one of the mainstreams of modern TV programming, competitive reality television has a relatively brief but impressive history because of its rapid development and popularity. In summary, in 1992, competitive reality TV was a novelty; in 2000, it was a fad; in 2010, it's a way of life (Poniewozik 1). People used to merely see competitive reality television as entertainment, but now it starts to infiltrate into many aspects of our society. For instance, it can inspire politicians and sociologists, serve as reference for other genres of TV programming and boost the development of television industry. Most importantly, it has changed people's lives though sometimes people might not notice it. Hence, it is the time for us to take competitive reality television seriously and explore some deep research value of it to study. 
In fact, no matter what research we do, the final goal should be applying it to the reality and make people's life better. According to previous observations, the relationship between competitive reality television and people's life is not as simple as we imagined. First, competitive reality television can be positive to people's life. For instance, under the effect of some competitive reality cooking shows, everybody is encouraged to be in do-it-yourself mode. These shows are slowly training audiences to realize that you don't need to be a four-star chef or go to a major school to bring new ideas to the table or the kitchen (Dawn 1). It's never late for us to learn something and improve ourselves. Besides, competitive reality TV shows can teach people "life lessons", which means by watching contestants how to deal with problem or face failure, people can be encouraged and become stronger when they face trouble. However, this kind of inherent imitativeness of human is exactly the reason why competitive reality television is also dangerous to people. Sometimes, for higher audience rates, reality TV programmers frequently make use of drastic conflict and tension to engage television audiences. Comparing to those positive impacts above, people are not that familiar with these extreme or violent behaviors occurring in shows and they seem to be so stimulating that some people may want to try and imitate. If so, people will be very sensitized and even cause some serious social problems. Given these complicated impacts of competitive reality television, it is necessary for researchers to do more analysis, figure out the internal connection between people's behavior and watching competitive reality television, and find a way to minimize weaknesses, maintain advantages and make the shows more beneficial to us. 
