P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
04/24/ 2015 
The sleep quality 
	'We are such stuff. As dreams are made on, and our little life is rounded with a sleep.' Sleep quality is very important for everyone because a good sleep will help us to relax the pressure of stress, especially college students. According to the article sleep loss, learning capacity and academic performance by Giuseppe Curcio, Michele Ferrara, and Luigi De Gennaro. College students have big stress of studying so they do not have enough sleep. And the students who have not enough sleep cannot have good learning memory and school performance in the next day. As a college student studying at Purdue University, I have sleep problem because I have to do a lot of academic works for a day. Sometimes, I will study over night to prepare for exams and do the homework. It is hard to study in the college. Because of it, I can't get enough sleep so I haven't too much energy for the next day studying. According to that, I think that lack of sleep is the main significant in the academic performance. 
	As a freshman college student, it is difficult for me to study in college. The lack of sleep is a big problem for me and it makes me always late to the class. For example, when I study in the class, I can't concentrate on the content and hard to perform well. According to Understanding adolescents' sleep patterns and school performance: a critical appraisal by Amy R. Wolfson and Mary A. Carskadon shows us how lack of sleep makes a negative effect on the school performance. For instance, the memory is big part of our academic study and the memories are affected by sleep which would help us to underlie our memory consolidation. 
On the other hand, the lack of sleep causes another problem which is hard for students to understand some contents in the class. According to my experience, the lack of sleep makes me have poor communication and normal learning skills like reading in the class. For example, when I had group work need to discuss, I couldn't followed our steps or involved into the activities. Therefore, it is difficult for the group members to communicate with them about the group works. From all of my experience above, I know the lack of sleep affects the academic study from the sleep quality effect of the academic learning. 
I notice that college students always complain that they have to study over night to finish their works in order to get a good score. They also have to wake up early for the next day morning class. Most of them sleep less than 8 hours. The article the influence of sleep quality, sleep duration and sleepiness on school performance in children and adolescents: A meta- analytic review by Julia F . Dewald, Anne M. Meijer, Frans J. Oort, Gerard A, Kerkhof and Susan M. Bo gels shows that bad sleep quality affects students' mood, energy level and ability to focus, concentrate and learn which will also affect our academic performance. On the opposite side, their memory recall and ability to keep concentration to be improved by sleep at least 8 hours before the class and exams. So as college students, if we want to perform well in studying, we have to get a good sleep. In the article, they found out that the students are more likely shorten their sleep because they focus on their emotions and anxiety during the high-stress period. The other ones who tend to ignore emotions and focus on tasks extend their sleep and shut themselves off from stress. Base on their survey of the college students' average sleep length, backgrounds and the average of GPA to see the connection between the sleep quality and academic study, they found that the students who sleep over 9 hours have higher GPAs than the short sleepers who sleep less than 6 hours a night. The students who sleep between 7 to 8 hours are no significantly different from the long or short sleepers. From that, we can know the lack of sleep quality has negative influence on the academic study. 
Although most of students agree with the poor sleep quality is the main significant influence in the academic performance, some of students think the study environment affect the students' performance most. They think having a bad study environment like a small classroom with too many students will cause the negative effects as well as the bad sleep quality. I don't agree with their opinion because even we are in a bad environment, we still can to try our best to perform well in the classroom. But if we don't get enough sleep, we can't do anything besides to get more sleep to prepare for the next day. So that's why I think the poor sleep quality is the main significant influence in the academic performance. 
	From all of the above, I think the lack of sleep is the main reason to make a negative and positive influence on the academic study. In general, a college student's sleep quality and study are tightly connected. So we cannot only focus on study and ignore the quality of our sleep. Furthermore, as a college student, I think that we should make a reasonable plan for our daily life as well as make sure that we have a good sleep quality to achieve our study goal. 
