	The best option of producing steel-electric arc furnace	 
There are three kinds of furnaces used in steel production-basic oxygen, open hearth and electric arc furnaces. Among all of them, open hearth furnaces cost too much energy when producing the same amount of steel compared to other methods. For this reason, they have been abandoned since 1980s. However, since 1970, when electric arc furnaces were introduced and installed in factories, the efficiency had increased by a large amount. Since the demand of steel is increasing, many factories around the world try to increase their production function to make it more efficient. To achieve higher efficiency-less energy use, faster production and less pollution, factories should use more electric arc furnaces instead of other kinds of furnaces 
For the first reason, electric arc furnaces can be used because they only require electric power for electrolysis. Since electricity has more energy efficiency than that of burning fossil fuels, factories should try to use more electric arc furnaces to produce steel. According to research done by Dr. Andreas Opfermann and Dirk Riedinger, the energy transfer to the chemical is roughly from thirty percent to sixty percent. Although energy efficiency for basic oxygen furnaces is slightly higher, roughly 75 percent of total energy input (3), the total energy used to heat the pig iron is greater than that used to electrolyze it. Also, the introduction of oxygen may cause the production of carbon monoxide, which counts for air pollution in global scale. 
In addition, electric arc furnaces tend to have more intense energy in processing, which means the furnaces have more efficiency in dealing with a small part. In industrial production, the highest temperature in the middle of an area that is receiving high energy electrons is more than three thousand degrees Celsius. It is flexible to produce steel because this method can move out contaminants such as phosphorus and sulfur, two major elements that greatly affect the machinability of steel, easily. (3) Also the temperature of the whole furnace can be controlled easily because the heated region is so small that could not change the temperature of the whole body by a large amount. On the other hand, basic oxygen furnaces are notoriously difficult to monitor since most of the heat input comes from oxygen lance. The heat has great influence on furnaces, making it more convenient for shoddy furnace to explode or break into pieces. For this reason, factories should use better materials which are difficult to oxidize and robust at extremely elevated temperature when build furnaces. This procedure indirectly reduces the efficiency of oxygen furnaces. 
Finally, electric arc furnaces are better than any other furnaces because factories do not have to worry too much about the pollution produced like those factories which use other furnaces do. If factories use electric arc, most solid and liquid contaminants can be moved through processing. Moreover, air pollution only contributes to small percentage of total pollution produced because electricity is a kind of clean energy source. However, some poison gas such as carbon monoxide will be produced in basic oxygen furnaces since the introduction of oxygen into the reaction. When companies use electric arc instead of basic oxygen, they can have more effort on steel production, not dealing with pollution. This increases efficiency of overall production by a large amount because of less pollution produced and to cope with. 
On the contrary, Bruce Hannon and James R. Brodrick thought that using basic oxygen instead of electric arc was a better way for consuming less energy. They stated that more than half of steel should be produced by this method to achieve greatest predicted and actual efficiency. This idea is wrong because technology has improved in recent years. More and more factories are increasing the percentage of the electric arc furnaces owing to mature controlling techniques. Also, the cost to run a program of electric arc had decreased a lot since 1970, when it had been installed. That means, producing steel using electric arc furnaces is becoming more economical in comparison with what it was ten years ago. 
Overall, factories should use electric arc furnaces more to produce steel. Electric arc furnaces can help reduce energy use, promote safety and cause less pollution than other furnaces do. Regardless of the fact that many steel production companies still use basic oxygen furnaces to produce steel, most of them will shift to electric arc production in the near future. For reasons above, it is affirmative that electric arc furnaces will change the steel industry by huge amount in the near future. 
