Argumentative Essay First Draft 
23rd November 2015 
Technology and Employment: The Fate of Working Communities. 
Introduction 
	Technology is one of the fundamental factor of today's stupefying development. Technology has massive influence towards everything that we see and interact in the present time. Ryan Barton, author of the article "Technology's Explosion: The Exponential Growth Rate" had affirmed that technology today had grown very rapid at a staggering rate where modern community will only require shorter time to develop new invention compared to those who live in the 80's and 70's. However, besides all this positive impact that blinded majority of the people living in the first world country, there are some negative consequences of automation. One of them is technology disrupt the structure of the job market which directly lead to high unemployment rate every year especially in manufacturing sectors and service based industries. 
Technology Disruption to The Manufacturing Sectors 
	With the increasing rate of world population, the demand for basic consumer products are also escalating every year. Few manufacturers find this to be challenging. By establishing new factories both in homeland and abroad had allowed manufacturers in developing country to meet the demand from retailers and public globally. There, technology had opened new windows for manufacturer to accomplish the task. At this moment, robotic arms and automated machines were abundantly spotted to work tirelessly in the assembly and processing lines alongside human labors. Due to their capability to produce products that are cheaper and in massive quantity as what claimed by Mc Afee and Brynjolfsson in their article titled "Why Workers Are losing The War Against Machines" (Para.4) many manufacturers today seems to have more interest on machines compared to human labor. Then, in another article titled "What Happens to Society When Robots Replace Workers?" by William H. Davidow and Michael S. Malone they both had claimed that large companies like Foxcomm had been spotted to have increase in the number of robot installation in most of their factories worldwide especially in China (Para. 4). Hence, technology and automation had made number of people in manufacturing sector to be dismissed from their career, making the market in industrial sectors to be more competitive. 
Technology Alter Jobs Structure in Many Service Based Industry. 
Beside the disruption to industrial manufacturing industry, experts also claimed that technology had altered occupation in the service based industries. Take for example company like Amazon who had change the way people shop today, shopping malls and outlets today seems to be needing less amount of employees in their corporations. In the same article, author Davidow and Malone had stated that new robots such as the Johnson and Johnson's Sedasys machines are deemed capable to replaced the jobs of a doctors in the near future. This will of course be a game changer to the job market in the medical world. Equally important, Mr. <name>, a <position> at Purdue University, alluded that technological company such as Uber and Lyft hold massive potential in replacing the role of cab drivers leading to transformation in the structure of transportation services. Therefore, masked by staggering development in modern world, technology had also deemed responsible for the alteration in many jobs structure on multifarious service based industries today. 
Technology for Better Future, lead to The Rise of Citizens with Zero Economic Values. 
	Most of us might have heard the overuse catch phrase, "Technology for Better Future". However, one should be aware that the catch phrase is just an inaccurate generalization as what I've mentioned earlier there are currently great number of people being unemployed due to the uprising of smart machines. Technology today had made an increase in community with "zero economic values" as mentioned by Davidow and Malone in the same article. Since, technology create a competitive job market, people who have less skill, knowledge and experience in the current technology would have hard time to land on jobs. Also asserted by Mc Mc Afee and Brynjolfsson, due to the uprising of technology, more employers are expecting to hire labors that are very skillful making those people who don't to be outperformed by others. In the interview, Mr. <name> agreed with the idea where he mentioned, "technology had displaced certain group of people who don't have literacy with the new type of technology." 
Opposition: Accelerating the Technology Make a World Where Nobody is Required to Work 
However, in the interview that I had, Mr. <name> had introduced to me a notion called "Accelerationism", a philosophy state that state by accelerating the technology to its maximum capability there will be an end to work, in other words, nobody will work. However, it is na ve idea to believe that there will be terminus for works soon especially with the current level of technological advancement that we had. Therefore, it is vital for the community to be concern about the negative impact of technology towards the current job markets and figure out ways to overcome them immediately. 
Philanthropically-sound Effort, Minimizing The Effect of Automation in Modern Job World 
	When it comes to unemployment epidemic in modern community, we might think that halting or controlling the development of technology would be the best way to curb this complication. However, based on the journal by Keith W. Miller, "Technology, Unemployment, and Power", the author proclaimed that the uprising of technology should not be considered immoral despite the irrefutable fact that they had seized enormous amount of jobs inside the community. Also mentioned by Miller in the same journal, some people view technology as an "option" while other look at them as vulnerability. Later in the article, Miller conclude that most of us agree that technology is something unavoidable. Thus, one of the way suggested by Mr. <name>, in order to curb this epidemic is by having an increase in philanthropical efforts by many company and organization today. As claimed by Mr. <name> larger company such as Google and Microsoft had already been spotted to have an increase in the amount of philanthropy, showing that they were concern with the disruption that their technology may cause towards the community. Therefore, increase in philanthropy by not only large technological company but also other firms and corporations worldwide was actually one of the way to curb the aftermath of mechanization in the community. Policy should also be establish by government to make sure that company will do charity works whenever they establish new technology in their working environment maybe in the form of tax or etcetera. 
Digital Literacy, Key to Survive the Modern Working Environment 
	Although philanthropy deemed to be capable in absorbing the impact of technology, but the effort only act as a temporary measure. A long term solution for this issue could be possibly done through education. In the same article by Davidow and Malone, they said "., we need a new, individualized, cultural, approach to the meaning of work and the purpose of life." In other words, education could be one of the approach to taught new generation about the basis of life. Skills and comprehensions in technology could be an asset that each individual should consider. Mr. <name> had mentioned that one of the reason leading to this situation is digital divide, a situation where people in different places received different levels of technology. Likewise, education held the potential to make a community or individual to be more digital literate thus eliminating the digital divide among the global community. Becoming competent in various skills related to the current technology could help one to be much more prepared to face the challenging job market that we have today especially when the job market shifts from "Physical based economy" to "Knowledge based economy" as mentioned by Mr. <name>. 
Conclusion 
	In conclusion, technology had change the world. Most of us had seen the power it possessed and how it could affect various aspects of life in the twenty-first century including the job market. Increasing amount of machination had been one of the uppermost reason that lead to the increasing amount of unemployment. First, technology had been claimed to cause disruption in modern manufacturing based industries. Then, technology had also altered jobs in numbers of service based industry. Last but not least, experts said that that "Technology for Greater Future" is only an inaccurate generalization spread among our modern community. Notions, after notions had been proposed by philosophers to support the benefit uprising of machines and robots in present time including "Accelerationism", however as claimed by Mr. <name>, it was still gullible idea that we could hardly achieve in a short range of time. Therefore, increasing philanthropically-sound efforts and refining education among the global community are some of the measures that could help reduce the gravity of the unemployment epidemic among the global community. 
