P5D1 Argumentative Paper 
April 10, 2015 
Why are majors stereotyped with ethnicity? Focus: Indians. 
	According to historical data one can say that people living in closed knit groups tend to pursue similar kinds of things. If we go way back to stone age we realize that there were only two groups : Hunters and gatherers. It's no surprise that the son of the leader of the group was expected to be the next in line as Alpha. In modern times, the son or daughter of, for example, a doctor or a businessman is expected by not only parents but also by society to walk in their father's footsteps and take over his practice or business. What if they have some other aspirations and dreams? Are majors really stereotyped according to ethnicity? Or is choice of major more influenced by parents? Do friends and relationships play any role? In my opinion ethnicity, parents and other influencers all play a pressing role in a child's choice of career path. 
	"There is considerable evidence to suggest that student majors are segregated by race and gender." say Stephen R. Porter and Paul D. Umbach(2005) in their paper COLLEGE MAJOR CHOICE: An Analysis of Person-Environment Fit. Being born and brought up in India, when I came to college here in the United States I met a lot of Indians who were enrolled in technical science majors but not so many in the college of education. Thus we can certainly say ethnicity and culture play a role in one's choice of major. 
	On the other hand, Gerhard Sonnert in his paper Parents Who Influence Their Children to Become Scientists: Effects of Gender and Parental Education says that "parents certainly make a difference for their children's interests and career choices". I do not disagree with this either. Parents tend to push their kids into pursuing a particular major because they strongly believe that the said career in the field would bring in abundant money. Parents constantly think about their child's future. But sometimes they end up forcing instead of influencing their child to pursue a particular major. All in all, children fulfill or are forced to fulfill their parents' wishes and reach the goals their parents' set for themselves. 
	Having established that ethnicity isnt the 'only' force, there are more influencers involved as well. Sonnert(2005) also mentions that "Career choice is subject to many, often cross-cutting, influences ranging, for instance, from general cultural patterns and the young person's values to considerations of job security and earning potential, from peer pressure to inspiration by teachers, and from prior preparation and skills acquisition to confidence in one's abilities and to one's emerging identity and self-image." This was backed up by Kimberly Powers, the Associate Director for International Undergraduate Admissions at Purdue university. According to her, apart from parents and ethnicity, high school education, friends and relationships also influence one's choice of major as well. 
	High school education moulds a child's mind as to what he or she wants to pursue in life. People in general end up choosing a path about which they know something of. Hence without surprise, students tend to look into career choices which include subjects that they have already studied and mastered in high school. As far as friends and relationships are considered, in my opinion, they do influence a student's choice of career but not a whole lot. 
	Conclusively we can say that there are a lot of factors that influence a person to choose his/her choice of major. Some influencers like ethnicity, parents and high school education are much more pressing than other influencers like friends and relationships. 
