Management Models in Chinese Family Firms 
There are many people arguing about what management model is the Chinese family firms truly need. As the market becomes more competitive, surviving is the most urgently problem that tons of Chinese family firms are facing at. For example, in China, the macro-control system is not smooth as developed country, the economic policy for the small business is relatively unfair, and the legal safeguard system is also not advanced. Those factors make the Chinese family firms even harder to stay in the business field. In this paper, I will mainly discuss on what management model is best suit for the small and middle sized company in China. In my opinion, the Chinese family companies should mainly adopts the institutionalized management model and uses the family-oriented management model as the auxiliary. After I have done massive amount of research on this topic, this combination of management models is the right choice for the small business owners. 
Before analyzing what is the best management model for the Chinese family firms, it is very important to have a comprehensive understanding of Management model. A management model is simply the set of choices made by executives on how the work of management gets done. For example, about how they define objectives, motivate effort, coordinate activities, and allocate resources. The concept of management model is very important for the firms when it comes to their sources of revenue, their cost structure, and their make-or-buy options. An enduring and hard to copy management model is the new form of competitive advantage that makes a company more valuable. Which means a more advanced management model is like a treasure to a company that makes it more competitive in the market. 
There are three parts to form a basic success management models. The first one is the base of the family business triangle is the business family system, interpersonal relations between family members, and interpersonal relations between members of the business family team. Those people must communicate, lead, follow, be motivated, and handle victory, defeat, daily challenges, and family business management effectively. Dealing with the "soft" issues of family and interpersonal relations is usually the most delicate and overlooked area of need in a closely held business. 
The second one is management and operations. The second part of the model is the day-to-day family business management and operations of the enterprise. Family business management and operations consist of the chain of authority, well-defined roles and responsibilities, the administrative functions of the business, delivery of business products and services, marketing and sales, customer service, information technologies and all the other functions which make businesses go. 
The last part is wealth and ownership. This closely held business dynamic deals with money and power. In founding generations, the owner and manager are generally the same person; however, in subsequent generations family business management may consist of one group of people while ownership consists of a different group. Just as managers have defined roles and responsibilities, owners do too, but because closely held enterprises generally fail to make a clear distinction between ownership responsibilities and family business management responsibilities, conflict and confusion are the results. 
Family businesses are also troubled by uncertainty over their estate and wealth distribution planning. While most financial services professionals are perfectly capable of developing estate and tax avoidance strategies, the strategies are usually not in concert with the business family's long-term goals and wishes. Effective estate plans must take into account family members' needs for security, relative fairness between employee and non-employee shareholders, and the potentially damaging effects of wealth on the individuals in the group over time. 
After research the evidence above mentioned. It can safely conclude that a right management is the key part that weather a company success or not. Advocate the consciousness of responsibility in the company, and advocate the consciousness of honesty in the company. The enterprise abides by its commitments, fulfills its promises to the employees no matter how hard it is and never loses the employees' trust. Make efforts to build a learning oriented and innovative company. That also a reflection of successful management model. 
