Fall-2015-ENGL-10600-I25 
Nov. 22nd , 2015 
Chinese Online Review Existence 
As the internet and online market in Chinese developing and growing rapidly, online reviews become very popular for people to look at before purchasing. However, online reviews have their back draws as well. And the abuse of them is more significant than the advantages they have. So probably Chinese online reviews should not exist anymore. 
Online reviews are important factors for customers to make decisions. They could save customers a lot of time to investigate the items online. But for more time, they mislead customers. As we are talking about online reviews' advantages, we are referring to "real" online reviews. However, the fact is that a big proportion of online reviews is fake. Fake reviews usually mislead customers and let them lose trust towards the merchants. According to a research, Taobao, one of the biggest online market in China, has up to 30% fake reviews. Can you imagine that three out of ten reviews customers see are fake? Such a big proportion of online reviews has caused perplexity in customers' life. There are a lot of customers who end with getting the unexpected items. This has destined the online review field should not exist in the future. 
Online reviews also has led to an online labor market, to explicitly write fake reviews for merchants which is not ethical. Some of the merchants hire people to write positive reviews for their shops. Since the review area is a free talking space, anyone can leave their thoughts there. Whether someone has purchased the item, he is able to leave comments underneath. Furthermore, there is no specific laws about online reviews in China. Although the intentional deceiving cannot be defined as illegal, it is still unethical. If the online reviews are not prohibited, more and more unethical actions may be taken and finally lead to illegal actions. 
Sometimes, the online reviews are not fake but they are getting inaccurate or getting too personalized. This could also mislead people's minds. For example, an online review of a restaurant is saying that the fish at the restaurant is too salty. Whether salty or not is different from one to the other, it depends on everyone's preferred flavor. If the reviewer is a lite-preferred person, a lot of people could mislead by his comment and not ordering fish or even not going to that restaurant. As well as hotel reviews, someone with mysophobia could leave a review saying that the hotel is terrible with cleanliness, even though a normal person would say the room is perfect and comfortable. As a result, real reviews can also be found inaccurate for most of the people under specific situations. 
Some people may argue that online reviews should keep going. Because it is more convenient and important for people to look at during the pre-purchasing phase. Online reviews are so practical that show people complete introduction of items through personal point views. Before purchasing items or hanging out, online reviews provide people good suggestions that what to buy or where to go when people have no ideas. 
Merchants would recommend online reviews too. The reason is that the online reviews not only good for customers, but also benefit them as well. Online reviews can help people select the best shop out of hundreds of stores. The reviews help merchants build their fames and help them make more money. 
Although it is true that online reviews benefit people a lot, the advantages they have cannot bury the harms they produce. They are practical only when the reviews are general and accurate. Fake reviews totally ruin the word "practical". With fake reviews, people tend to be deceived more than benefited. As long as merchants do not hire labors to write reviews for them, online reviews are good for them to build reputations and be aware of their weakness. However, drastic competitions among shops make them no longer ethical. Unfair competitions always happen, with ambitions and fake reviews. Can customers accept that merchants are making money by cheating them? Since the online reviews have led so many problems in Chinese online market, it is not necessary for them to exist any more. People will surely find another way that is beneficial and fair for the market. 
