Making American friends helps Chinese students in academic study 
Nowadays, an increasing number of Chinese students choose to attend American universities. It seems that they do well in their academic fields, as they often get good grades in the exams and quizzes. But have you noticed this phenomenon? When you walk into the libraries you will probably see a lot of Chinese students dividing into small group and study on their assignments together. But, in their groups we can hardly find an American students inside. What's more, in class discussions or group meetings, Chinese students and American students usually form their groups separately. It seems that Chinese students are prefer to talk with other Chinese students than the domestic students. About this situation, some Chinese students may think that it is not necessary to work with the domestic students, however, I think that having American friends can help Chinese students' academic studies. 
American friends can help Chinese students adapt to American ways of study. In Dan Harris's (2012) article Chinese Students In America. It's Bad Out There from the China Law Blog website, he described the American students' complaints on Chinese students that those Chinese killed the class discussion as they seldom participate in class. I think the main reason for this situation is that Chinese students are coming from a different background of education. In our classes, we are not encouraged to talk in class even if we suppose to discuss the content of the classes. But in American classes, things are totally different. Everyone is expected to give his opinion whether it is right or wrong. But, with the help of their American friends, Chinese students can do better in the class discussion. In the class discussions, those American friends can carry them in their groups. They can encourage the Chinese ones to share their ideas, help them express themselves when they cannot describe their opinions well. Also when you need some help, to ask your American friends will be less pressure than ask the professor. In this way, Chinese students can get into American ways in class faster and better. 
As the Chinese students are used to the new studying method, a new problem occurs. As English is not the first language for the Chinese, they may have difficulties in communicating with the domestic students especially for the hard academic problems. In this way, American friends can help Chinese students with those academic communication problems. In Mo Xue's (2013) work Effects of Group Work on English Communicative Competence of Chinese International Graduates in American Institutions of Higher Education, she demonstrated that group study with American can help Chinese students develop their creative thinking and improve their ability to talking and comprehension. Also, this will help them to increase the background knowledge of American culture. After practicing many times, they will be able to talk about the academic questions with their peers. It will also be easier for them to ask questions to their professors. Therefore American friends can help Chinese students improve their academic communications. 
With American friends, Chinese students will have a better group work. In my interview with my GS instructor Ms. Jenn, I asked her about the group works between Chinese and American students. She said that the both students have their own advantages. For example, American students can understand the material well and Chinese students are often good at computation. If they can combine their advantages together, their group work will be more efficient and the outcome will be better. One example about me is that, I take the Physics class this semester, and it has a lab class which need to writing codes to simulate the motion. It gives an instruction for each topic. My group is formed by three Chinese students. Because of the limit of English skills it is often takes us a long time to understand what we need to do. But for the group next to us, it has a different situation. This group is formed by an American guy and a Chinese girl. The American guy would like to explain the material to the Chinese girl if the girl seems not understand what is talking about. When it comes to the calculation part, the Chinese girl will do most of work. Because of their cooperation, although they are only two people they can do faster and make less mistakes than what we do. That's why I think have group works with American friends can be more efficient and the outcomes are better. 
Some students may thought that studying with American students is not a good idea because in this case they may need to spend more time to study together and cannot control their own time. I think this is because in China they seldom have the chance of group work. Actually group work can save a lot of time, if people can separate the work into several parts and everyone was responsible for one part. Thus, people can just finished their own in the time that work for them. After all people finished, they can determine a time to have a conference and explaining everyone's own work. In this way, the time will be less as you do not need to think about the whole thing by yourself. Also the result will be much better, as the diversity of people's ideas can help them make their project perfect. Just as the old saying said, two heads are better than one. 
Overall, making American friends in academic can help Chinese people adjust new way of study, improve academic communication, and make better group works. I think that there are still many other advantages of American friends in academic. In a foreign country, nothing is easy. If the Chinese students want to be successful in their fields, they need to try to have their American friends to help them. What's more, they should be very hard working, as they cannot let their American friends to do every single thing for them. Wish every Chinese students can have American friends and succeed in their academic studies. 
