Should Fast Food Chains Focus on Consumers' Needs? 
It is undeniable that Americans generally rely on fast food. Fast food industry is enormous and chains within are highly organized, because quite a few fast-food chains run 24 hours restaurants, provide similar types of food and even use nearly identical ingredient. These restaurants all make efforts to attract more customers, and they should try to focus on consumers' needs in terms of nutritious value and freshness of food ingredient. 
Fast food chains should emphasize the concept of nutrition-balanced diet in their menus because extra nutritious ingredients can bring more profit to chains. Mc Donalds can offer tasty foods including French fries, but some potential consumers, who like delicious food but don't typically need it, are concerned about their health more than taste of food. In order to catch these consumers' eye, the chain may want to introduce some ingredients that contribute to health into its menus. Mc Donalds has already made "commitments to offer improved nutritious choices" and adds low-calories food such as salad and fruit milkshake in its official website. Besides Mc Donalds, Another national top fast food chains including Subway also make a difference to improve nutritious quality of food. For instance, Subway finds ways to add calcium, vitamin and fibers to food, making diet more nutrient Juliann Schaeffer, 18 . Seen from these cases, these two large fast-food chains create more food options. It means that it is equally or more profitable for them to give consumers more choices or they would not bother to do it. 
In addition, consumers need food contributing to long-term health. Professor Steven Hillis said that consumers trust fast food because it is easy for them to predict what foods are available. However, what consumers do now is more than predicting. They probably expect food free from trans-fat because campaign to ban trans-fat has been going on for years and achieves great success. Stephen Joseph says, "Trans-fat content in the national food supply has diminished dramatically. There is so much news about trans-fat that it is impossible to track it." It is natural for consumers to expect food free from trans-fat due to regulation of fast food content. Although some chains such as Mc Donalds had a hard time finding substitute oil without trans-fat, they had to change much content of their food to live up to customers' expectation. In the same way, other fast-food chains are supposed to provide consumers with trans-fat-free food. Otherwise, it is possible that upscale consumers will eat less fast food because of concern of long-term health. 
Children make up a major group of fast food consumers and parents who often purchase fast food for kids may take nutrition value as an important factor in choosing restaurants, so the chains should try to offer more healthy options for children. Professor Hillis demonstrated that as more parents spent most of their time outside families, they tend to choose fast food because parents that need to work and children that often have fun with friends try to spend as little time as possible on food. Parents who got out of work would like to grab some food quickly on their way to pick up their kids at some preschools or friends' home, because it was more convenient for the parents with more spared money to buy fast food and for children to choose fast food when they were away from parents. Such families rely on fast food. Given time they will think about whether children's diet is balanced or not. A fast nutritious meal may cost more, but it offers nutrition as well as convenience, so the chains are very likely to make parents who care little about making their own meals regular customers. 
Nowadays, consumers not only need nutritious food but also crave fresh ingredients. Chains should also value freshness because consumers prefer freshly made food to processed food. Fast-food chains like Subway and Wendy's make their own specials, but they also have some fresh ingredient in common. It can be seen from a fact that Jargon Julie stated. Subway was more popular among consumers than Arby's because about ten percent more consumers believed that Subway sliced its meat in its own restaurant than that in Arby's (B.11). It shows a trend where consumers want fresh-made food more than processed food, and chains that adapt to this trend successfully make more profits. 
Consumers demand healthy and fresh ingredient more than before. Thus, fast food chains should pay close attention to those changes to meet consumers' need so that they can maintain and improve profits that it can make. Most importantly, the chains adapt to changes so that both chains and consumers get benefit. 
Work Cited Page 
http://news.mcdonalds.com/getattachment/06344ba3-94c0-4171-90ad-35f304142151, 
http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/070113p18.shtml 
http://www.bantransfats.com 
argon, J. (2012, Oct 11). Fast food aspires to move up the food chain. Wall Street Journal Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com/docview/1095621712?accountid=13360 
Jargon, Julie. "Corporate News: Late-Night Sales on a Roll for U.S. Fast-Food Outlets." Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition ed.: B.1. Jan 25 2012. Pro Quest. Web. 10 Nov. 2014 . 
Gray, Steven. "Pressure Mounts on Fast-Food Chains to Remove Trans Fats." Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition ed. Dec 14 2004. Pro Quest. Web. 10 Nov. 2014 . 
Steven, Hillis. Personal interview. 13 October 2014. 
