communication between international students and local students 
" I am frustrated when I start my campus life." It is the deepest sound from most of international students since we leave from our home to a whole new environment. We live independently. We study consciously. We communicate difficultly. Majority give a reason that mental health of international students touches off the communication barriers between international students and native students. However, in my perspective, loneliness is the most significant reason caused communication difficulties. 
Loneliness, which caused communication obstacles in different races, is related to the need to belong. Take an example from an article of loneliness and international students: An Australian study. Donne says " no man is an Iland, intire of it selfe." When people first come to foreign countries, they will feel unpleasant and lack of relationship. So when they do not satisfy with the need to belong, they will feel loneliness and are not willing to talk with others about their problems. One kind of problems is caused emotionally, studied by Weiss. Weiss says that emotional loneliness means "attachment relationship", like missing homes and families. When people get homesick, they will feel desperate and have a negative thought. For instance, when students call their parents and cry for the dilemma they meet, they will feel more hopeless and start to close the door of others. The other kind is from social network. As we all know, in the United States, clubs in campus are various and they give international students good chances to learn American culture and melt to American friend circles. However, lonely persons scare of these kind of social network because of "a sense of an exclusive". What's more, Stokes, another scientist, gives deeper explanation: "the social network variables includes social size, net density." If international students only make friends from their own countries, they not only will still feel loneliness when they have in-class assignments but also can hardly improve their oral English and make friends with native students. Thus, the need to belong is very important for international students to open their mouse and practice their English and finally make friends with people form different countries. 
In the same article, another reason related to loneliness is first experience. The first experience is defined that people first come to a very strange world and need time to adapt. During this period, people will get homesick, face language problems and transit cultural shocks. When students have all these problems, they will feel isolation and communicating with native students seems too difficult to start. In the study, the author says "to compound the personal deficit and social deficit, many students experience a 'cultural deficit'". In fact, for instance, cultures of the United States and of china are totally different. In China, as Chinese, people do not have language problems; In the United States, poor oral English is embarrassed for international students to open their mouse to have a conversation with native speakers. In China, Chinese students can go home as long as there are several days off. In the United States, international students can only go back home once or twice a year so it will often cause homesick. All in all, different culture will result a feeling of loneliness which can cause communication barriers in different races. 
On the other hand, in the previous mentioned, majority think that mental health will cause communication problem between international students and native students. I find an article titled "addressing the mental health concerns of international students". In this article, the author mentions that international students sometimes misunderstand the United States' system which is idealized by international students. When they realize the reality, they will give themselves tremendous amount of stress which will cause communication problems since when they feel desperate of the campus life in the United States, they are not willing to make friends with native speakers and are eagerly want to change the environment. However, in my opinion, this kind of stress can be solved by time. When international students live longer in this situation, they will know the truth and find the best way to suit the environment. After that, they will try to push themselves out of comfort zone and make friends with native speakers even others from different countries. Thus, I think mental health is not the major reason that causes communication problems, instead, it just one minor part of cultural shocks that will cause loneliness of international students first coming to campus. 
All in all, loneliness which separate into two part of the need of belong and the first experience can prove my point of view and the opposite view, "mental health will cause communication barriers", is not well enough to prove the majority's think. What's more, communicating with different races is still a steep problems in international students studying abroad. 
