Prosecution and Internet Trolling 
Internet trolls refer to the people who send many off-topic messages to disrupt people's normal discussion and make people angry. As the size of the Internet continues to expand, the actions of trolling have also evolved. For example, some radical trolls hacked the Facebook accounts of dead people and played jokes by sending inflaming messages. Surprised by its great impact, society starts to pay more attention to the Internet trolling. People try to come up with solutions of Internet trolling, such as banning trolls' accounts. Many users of social network sites have been enraged by trolls, and some users even receive death threats from Internet trolls. Therefore, some people think the government should make Internet trolling illegal in order to control the negative impact of Internet trolling. However, even if many users think Internet trolls are annoying and distracting, making Internet trolling illegal is both unnecessary and impracticable to control Internet trolling. In this essay, I will first address some opposition from other people, and then provide examples and information to rebut these thoughts. 
People who support prosecuting Internet trolling have several ideas which sound reasonable. First of all, they claim that Internet trolling has already caused physical damage to the victims. For instance, a 16-year-old girl named Jessica was found dead at her home. Her profile on Ask.fm, a website where users can post questions on their pages, showed that she was branded "fat" and "a slut"(Robson 2012). It is certain the Internet trolling made her under pressure and indirectly caused her death. Therefore, people suggest controlling Internet trolling by law is necessary. Second, some people claim that letting the government control Internet trolling will be more effective than letting the administrators(admins) do. During the interview with [name], the CEO of[company name] , [name] told me that the admins of the online forums could hardly control Internet trolling since the trolls can create new accounts immediately after they are banned. If the government can take part in controlling Internet trolls, these people are certain that the number of trolls will drop quickly. Third, they suggest that the offensive messages sent by Internet trolls are not included in freedom of speech. For instance, there is a type of trolling known as rest-in-peace(RIP) trolling. Some Internet trolls play jokes on the dead people by hacking the dead's accounts. Thus, many people suggest that Internet trolling is not protected by the First Amendment and should be restricted. Although these thoughts sounded convincing and reasonable, there are some weakness with these thoughts. In the following paragraphs, I will rebut these oppositions with reasons and examples. 
The first reason for not making Internet trolling illegal is that many bad results of Internet trolling have already covered in other current laws. Many people suggest that Internet trolling has taken numerous people's lives by making the victims feel like they do not need to live anymore. Therefore, they suggest Internet trolling should be considered as a crime and be punished by laws. It is true that Internet trolling causes some negative effects which violate the law. However, Internet trolling is a vague and broad term, which includes several aspects of actions, such as upsetting others and interrupting normal discussions. While threatening to harm others is clearly dangerous, whether interrupting normal discussions should be prosecuted is still questionable, since this kind of Internet trolling only make people annoyed instead of making them in sadness. Therefore, because of the vague meaning of Internet trolling, making Internet trolling illegal will result in difficulties during the enforcement process. Also, these results of Internet trolling have already covered by current laws, which makes it unnecessary to create new laws for Internet trolling. For example, in Britain, Malicious Communications Act 1988 suggests that any person who sends to another person any article or electronic communication, which is of an indecent or grossly offensive nature, is guilty of an offense. Therefore, making Internet trolling illegal is not necessary since there are many existing laws that can be used for sentencing the harmful results of Internet trolling. 
The second reason for not prosecuting Internet trolling is that proving the intent of a threat from the Internet is really challenging. Since the small social network sites fail to control Internet trolling due to their limited technology and funds, some people believe the government is able to track Internet trolls and send them into jail because of greater power and more resources. To some extent, this thought is true. Definitely, letting the government track Internet trolls will be more effective than the administers of social network sites. However, tracking Internet trolls is only the first step of controlling Internet trolling. Proving the intent of a trolling message also plays an important role. According to Claire Hardaker, an academic from Lancaster University who studies online aggression, proving that the Internet trolls really mean it when they send threat messages and they really had the means to carry it out is very difficult ("Internet trolls face," 2014). Certainly, Claire suggested, when you received a message from a stranger on the Internet that said "I am going to kill you", there was a possibility that this guy really meant it. However, for example, if your mum sent the same text, she might simply be angry because you forgot to bring something she asked for. Therefore, since the police had to figure out the real intents of the Internet trolls before arresting them, the effect of prosecuting Internet trolling will not be as great as people imagine. 
The last reason which prosecuting Internet trolling is that there is insufficient reason to engage the law. People who propose making Internet trolling illegal claim that offensive messages sent by Internet trolls are not included in the freedom of speech. For example, messages involve death threats and humiliation are considered as a form of obscenity. Therefore, this action is not protected by the First Amendment and should be prosecuted. However, there is a certain rule that determines under what situation limits can be put on the First Amendment freedom of speech. This is the clear and present danger test, which means only a speech that can create a clear and present danger can be excluded in the freedom of speech. One famous example of clear and present danger test is falsely shouting fire in a theatre(Schenck v. United States 1919). In this example, falsely shouting fire in a crowded can clearly result in panic and cause people's death. Therefore, determining whether a speech violate the First Amendment needs to be considered. However, many messages sent from Internet trolling fail to pass the clear and present danger test. For example, many trolls will send irrelevant messages to others during the discussions. This type of trolling usually will not result in danger of other people. Instead, it just makes other distracted and annoyed. Therefore, this actions of Internet trolling should not be considered as prosecutable due to the clear and present danger test. 
In conclusion, even if Internet trolling is annoying, prosecuting Internet trolling is neither necessary nor practicable. First, many bad consequences of Internet trolling have already covered by current law, which makes prosecution unnecessary. Second, proving the intent of Internet trolls when they are sending trolling messages is difficult, which makes prosecution unrealistic. And third, there is insufficient reason to engage to law due to the clear and present danger test. Just as [name] said during the Interview, controlling Internet trolling requires consideration from many fields. Therefore, I conclude that prosecuting Internet trolling is not an effective way of controlling it. 
Reference 
Internet trolls face up to two years in jail under new laws. (2014, October 19) BBC News UK. Retrieved from http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-29678989 
Robson, S. (2012, December 12). 'Can you kill yourself already?' The vile online messages from internet trolls 'that led girl, 16, to hang herself'. Daily Mail. Retrieved from http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2246896/Jessica-Laney-16-committed-suicide-internet-trolls-taunted-told-kill-herself.html 
Schenck v. United States 249 U.S. 47 (1919) Retrieved from https://www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/249/47 
[SHORTENED TITLE UP TO 50 CHARACTERS] 
2 
Running head: [SHORTENED TITLE UP TO 50 CHARACTERS] 
1 
