Fundamental elements of the rise and fall Nokia 
Fundamental elements of the rise and fall Nokia 
As a giant telecommunication company, Nokia has been successful for its mobile phone in the early 2000s, dominating the world's mobile phone market. More consumers had great compassion and pursued Nokia phones over all other brands as seen by the global market shares graph (Figure 1). However, Nokia's market started to fall when facing the game-changing i Phone in 2007. Many critics had their own opinions on the rise and fall of Nokia. Some claimed the functionality and design that led to its rise and the excessive focus on hardware led to its fall. Nevertheless, I want to argue that it is the price that dramatically increased Nokia's market share while the complacency put Nokia in serious trouble. 
In the article "The Rise and Fall of Symbian Ltd.", Wood (2013) pointed out some fascinating functionalities: Nokia's Symbian platform had developed elements of the dominant design years before the i Phone or Android. He spoke highly of the design of the Nokia phone, such as "flipped open", "some with minuscule two-inch screens," and "some designed to look like fashion accessories" (p.7). Consumers were amazed that mobile phones could have variant designs and were created by Nokia. The era of flat, rectangular screens later became mainstream. In the article "The Rise and Fall of a Mobile Empire" Green (2011) argued that Nokia had always been a company concentrated on hardware. Nokia excelled with hardware development while the lack of focus on software advancement aided in their decline. 
However, the design and functionality didn't necessarily mark the success of Nokia's mobile dominancy. Although the variety of design attracts consumers, this feature may not be the only reason consumers purchase Nokia phones. In fact, consumers only needed a phone they could text and call in the early 2000s; the supplemental functionalities only slightly improved user experience since consumers didn't have great expectations on phones yet. On the other hand, the concentration on hardware didn't provide Nokia the ability to produce hardware for its own products, which can be accounted as a failure to Nokia's innovation. 
In my perspective, the reason why Nokia made such a glorious accomplishment is due to its affordable price. Take the World's best-selling phone - Nokia 1100 as an example: the total units sold until now is 250 million worldwide and it's just a basic feature phone. Green claimed the selling points of basic feature phones revolve around low cost, simplicity and ease of use. The main focus is on calls, text messaging, alarm clock, etc. instead of additional features reduced price and targeted consumers in developing countries, such as China, to make the Nokia phone affordable. When it comes to the fall of Nokia, complacency is the most crucial cause. In the article "Nokia: The rise and fall of a mobile giant", Lee (2013) analyzed the era of complacency of Nokia. He believed that complacency kicked in and stopped Nokia from continuing to produce innovative and leading technology. "They felt they could do no wrong." (p.12) It is obvious that Nokia was unaware of potential competitors on the market. Meanwhile, Nokia continued using Symbian mobile system and solid buttons for several years on its smartphones without substantial improvements or upgrades. "While what the new generation of pioneers at Apple understood was that you needed to focus just as heavily on the software when your hardware is essentially a rectangle with a screen." (p.32) Asserted by Edita (2002) from "Nokia-The Inside Story" Simply, this supports the idea that being complacent and lack of innovation and focus on software led Nokia fall. 
