My Opinion On The TPPA Implementation In Malaysia 
Over the last few months, there has spurred a heated debate on the implementation of the TPPA in Malaysia. There are those who are against it and there are also those who support it. I comprehend how large of a step Malaysia is taking right now and why people has some doubts whether it is for the better or worse. The free trade agreement will obviously change the landscape of businesses for locals thus impacting the economic state of the nation and will indirectly have some social impacts as well. After some research of my own and an interview with an expert, I have a firm stance that the implementation of the TPPA in Malaysia will have a positive impact overall if Malaysia takes the right consecutive steps following its signing. I believe that the TPPA will increase the economic state of Malaysia despite greater outside competitors coming in field, provide a compatible ground for local enterprises to thrive and still protect Malaysia's right against outside influences. 
First and foremost, I believe the TPPA will increase the economic state of Malaysia despite people saying that the arrival of foreign competitors will just hinder the economic growth of Malaysia. The fact that the TPPA creates an economic bubble for its members guarantees good back and forth trading between them and not just polarized trading where only one-side is exporting and the other side is importing. Adding to that fact is that, the lowering of tariffs between members during trade allows companies with less capital to engage internationally and compete globally, helping the growth of economy for their respective countries. A report from Pricewaterhouse Coopers PWC 2015, suggests that if TPPA were to get through Malaysia will reap the benefits of having an increase in GDP by about USD107 - 211 billion, which very significant. This explicitly proves my point and is a trustworthy indicator to rely on. People who are against the TPPA usually base their objection of rumors and unqualified sources. 
Next, I am determined that the TPPA did not forget to accommodate for the local entrepreneurs to thrive as well despite allowing very large competitors with bigger capital to enter the Malaysian market. Based on an article from Malaysia International Trade and Industry MITI department 2015, Most of the policies of the TPPA will first go through the congress of the locals and then implemented in a step-by -step bases to ensure smooth transition from the old economic environment to the new economic environment para. 7. From this, I am sure that it will provide enough time for the locals the ramp up their products and level the competition to an even scale. I also think that even more local enterprises would be able to bring their products internationally when the TPPA is fully implemented and farther grow local enterprises. So instead of hindering the growth of local enterprises which is the stigma many is believing right now, I believe it will expand the local enterprises to which they have never reached before. On the other side, competition will also colorize the diversity of product making a better experience for consumers. 
Furthermore, I do not think that outside entities coming in Malaysia through this free trade agreement will have much influence on how Malaysia structures their economy. Various people are saying that big companies can sue Malaysia if their policies hinder their business once they come in but as stated by MITI, of 74 Investment Guarantee Agreements only 2 has been brought against Malaysia para. 10. This clearly shows the threat level of outside compromises are not realistic. Then, people are saying why the privacy during negotiations, is there something that is kept secret from the public? Again MITI responded that the first reason being that the regulations involved in the negotiating process pertains that the negotiator must maintain secrecy of the negotiated text. The second is so the bargaining position of Malaysia does not get compromise and resulting in Malaysia at a disadvantage para. 7. Thus I have nothing to fear of right now that the TPPA will allow any foreign entities to abuse the local markets or authorities. 
In conclusion, I am confident in the implementation of the TPPA and fully support it. I am confident it will grow Malaysia's economic status, protect and provide new opportunities for local enterprises to expand and will not lead Malaysia to make compromises due to foreign entities. Hopefully the claims I have given is fully justified for this conclusion. I hope that Malaysia will continue to make good crucial decisions in the future as well. 
