				Jobs in Startups Over Corporate 
We all humans have changed so much over the past that we do things not for us or because we love it, we do it most of the times to show people. So is in the case of when looking for a job or accepting an offer. People take up jobs in Corporate World over Startups just because they don't want that if they tell someone in society about their company they should not be knowing about it. Its not a moment of proud, they are just trying to boast up. I'm sure you got to know what I am going to argue about today. Yes, I am going to argue about taking jobs in Startups over a corporate one. I'm going to support my arguments with the following points. 
	Even though the Startups don't pay as much as a corporate could pay, but the opportunities available at startups are way too much and better as it is a new company, they are going to have tethering issues and are usually small. So any problem faced in any department, it comes into notice of everyone. And this provides an amazing opportunity to an employee working there as he gets to know how to solve this and also broadens his mind. One could learn in a corporate too, but since they have separate departments and specialized employees in each of them so the issues don't become viral quickly. Where as Startups being small, everyone works together and helps each other to build the company and match the level of corporates. Next big advantage of startups you get to work with a bunch of innovators. People who think out of the box. People who think differently, who keep on looking for problems and find solutions to them. Further more one can can easily climb the ladder and take one of the senior level positions in the company which I feel is pretty amazing. Adding to it, the atmosphere present at the Startups is pretty cool. Since it is usually the young crowd in it, people dress up pretty funky, you get to talk to the generation of your age, who have similar mind sets. 
Considering the above factors, I would strongly urge everyone to consider the option of working at a Startup. I'm sure you will love it and its going to be a learning time with loads of exposure. 
