It is Beneficial to be Volunteers 
After I joined Boiler Out, a program at Purdue for international students to volunteer, and became one of the volunteers, I became more and more curious about the things that volunteering can bring. For me, being volunteers means a way of giving and gaining, even though people sometimes say being a volunteer is just about being able to produce a better resume. In this article, I want to show, although it is true that people can build better resumes if they are volunteers, the most significant things are abounds of abilities that people can develop from volunteering. 
First of all, volunteering is beneficial because it can raise people's self-awareness, ethics and self-regulation through the volunteering programs (Rothwell & Brandon, 2013). Through the programs, volunteers can meet more people and talk to those people. In this way, volunteering let volunteers more understand themselves and what they want in the future. On the other hand, being a volunteer is a way to learn how to act properly in different roles. For example, hospitals need volunteers to take care of the patients (Edward 1993). These volunteers have to not only bring the happiness for the patients and their families, but also be careful when doing the medical examinations. This is a challenge for volunteers to switch their roles. Because of the changing of roles, volunteers need to learn more about controlling their emotions and feelings (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). I think this is because volunteers start to think the problem on the other people's side, and in this way, volunteers understand others, rather than being selfish and self-centered. At the same time, they develop altruistic feelings through the experience (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). Through talking and working with other people, volunteers broaden their eyes and know more stories about others. For example, they can resist themselves not smoking through helping people who are addictive to smoking. In this way, volunteers are more likely to think about others and improve themselves to be the people they want to be. 
Not only improve in the mental part, people can also advance their technical skills. Although students can get a certification after volunteering, my interviewee, Kathryn, the director of Boiler Out at Purdue, totally disagrees with the statement that volunteering is all about better resumes. She said that getting a certification is not the only part; the most meaningful thing is that volunteers can learn some skills that can be used in their lifetime. For example, volunteers may know some knowledge about planting trees, cooking and leadership depending on what volunteering activities they are involved in. From my own experience, after I joined the Hunter's Moon (A name of a volunteering program), I learned how to fire corns. This is a new experience that I have never imagined before. Besides some technical skills, volunteers also improve their communication skills and attitudinal skills (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). From my own volunteering experience, volunteers may feel awkward at first, but as they joined more and more programs, they started to find it easier for them to open their mouths and talk to others bravely. In this process, volunteers can gain skills that may help themselves in the future. From the study of Crowell (2012), based on the data collected anonymously by the research online, researchers showed that a lot of people agree that being a volunteer in the volunteering programs can further their leadership. Therefore, learning some leadership skill is also one of the benefits that volunteers can gain through participating. 
Another advantage of being volunteers is that people get more interactions with different people who they may not have the chance to meet before. In the interview, Kathryn told me that one of the most interesting parts of Boiler Out is that you meet various students from nearly 200 countries around the world to work together, and also you can know more about local American community. Volunteers enjoyed meeting other volunteers, sharing their experiences, and gaining greater knowledge (Taylor & Francis Group 2012). Volunteers build their networks and make connections with others so that they can get more ideas and thoughts during volunteering. This interaction does not only bring friendship, but also bring collaborate with people. An example from CIPD Focus (A magazine) shows that two girls called Watson and Strachan develop their branch level with members from the different backgrounds and occupations, such as the students from other schools and professors from HR department. They did some projects together and got connections with each other. This volunteering activity helped the girls open their eyes and get along with more people in different areas. This example shows that volunteering is rewarding mostly in self-improvement rather than gaining the certificate. 
From all these resources I found, volunteering programs can bring people the direction of future, various skills, and the relationships with others. Building a better resume for college student is only a small part of benefits, and the most significant is the ability training. You will never know what you may get unless you join the volunteering programs. Besides the volunteers themselves, the schools and the communities also have the responsibilities to encourage people join more volunteering activities. For example, the organizations of schools can do some publicities and invite some volunteers in the program to give some speeches. These volunteers can talk about what they learned using their own experiences and stories which can help people see the benefits directly. In this way, people are more likely to join these kinds of activities to help others and to improve their own. After I present these advantages of being volunteers, I hope people can join us and be one of the volunteers! 
