Genetics plays the most important role in obesity 
Argumentative essay 
9th April 2015 
Purdue University 
Genetics plays the most important role in obesity 
Obese people are often branded overeaters who don't exercise. <name> on of my interviewees, who just finished his post graduation, said this to me while interviewing him. A person is governed by his or her genetics, some may have very good genes others may not. The others are often subjected to diseases so they should take extra care for themselves. After interviewing <name> and doing research on obesity, I found out that of all the factors that effect obesity, genetics is the most crucial part. For example some people do not gain fat no matter how much they eat, this is because their metabolism is high this is all because of their genes as opposed to people who gain a lot by eating a very little amount. 
	Obesity in most cause is hereditary. But having a defective gene, which causes obesity, is not always bad. According to the article Obesity: Lifestyle or genetics, "having a tendency to be overweight may well be a sign of superior breeding". People who have more tendencies to become fat have superior genes than people who do not. "People who today may become obese were built to survive times of famine, to ensure the survival of the human race. The scrawny ones wouldn't have lived." It is estimated that people as much as 80 percent have genes which will lead them to obesity. Obesity is often a genetic disorder and is responsible for 50 percent of obesity cases. Exercising and being active is the two most important actions that can lead to a healthy life, however people who have tendencies to become obese wont be able to burn fat so easily, so it is harder for them to see a healthier life-style. For those people who cannot reduce fat by dieting and being active the best bet would be surgery. Though surgery has its own risks it can help reduce 50 percent of their weight and can help them lead a healthy life. 
	"Over the last three decades, the prevalence of overweight and obesity have increased rapidly and the latest World Health Organization (WHO) estimates suggest that 1. 6 billion adults (aged 15 years and over) were overweight and 400 million were obese in 2005"(Fawcett & Barroso, (2006), para.2) and its on the rise. Obesity is a international public threat and economic burden. Having obese relatives increases one's risk for obesity. Obesity is not inherited like other diseases like diabetics or Huntington's but rather involves multiple genes( Lyon & Hirschhorn (2004)). There are multiple different ways to find out the genes involved in obesity such as linkage analysis and association studies. In general obesity is a common disease caused by many factors, with heredity playing a crucial role. Although scientists are not clear as to which single gene disorder causes obesity various animal models suggest a wide variety of possibilities. Certain people cannot reduce weight more than up to a limit this is because they have reached their genetic limitation after which it is almost impossible for them to reduce further. 
	"The first monogenic obesity syndrome to be discovered was the lack of a hormone called leptin which is produced by fat cells and serves as a signal to the brain that there are adequate nutrients around". People who do not produce leptin due to a genetic defect lack this signal. There brain cannot sense that they have had adequate nutrition, which leads them to constant eating. In short people who lack leptin feel like they are in constant starvation and eat a lot more than they are supposed to. Although the monogenic obesity syndrome has been very informational it only affects a small group of people. There are various other genetic factors that can cause obesity which have not yet been clear yet. 
Conclusion 
	Obesity has been the most common type of malnutrition and one of the greatest with health hazards to life in the World today. Having a better understanding of the genetic contributions to obesity especially common obesity and gene environment interactions will generate a better understanding of the causal pathways that lead to obesity. Obesity is a complex disorder with both genetic and environmental causes. The predominant one is genetics, and changes to the environment will be essential if we are to tackle the current epidemic In brief genetics play the most important role in a persons physic along with other factors. 
