Women in STEM 
Purdue University 
April 14, 2015 
Introduction 
STEM means science, technology, engineering, and math. The STEM workforce is pretty crucial to modern society. However, there is a gender gap in STEM fields where women are largely underrepresented. Attracting more women to work in STEM is really important. STEM shapes our future, improves our world, and makes our lives easier. 
Engineering is the most gender-segregated area. According to the statistics, only 20 percent of engineers are women (NSF, 2011). While 20 percent of engineering graduates are women, only 11 percent of them are practicing engineers (NSF, 2011). My interest is to find out why there are fewer women in STEM, and there are three reasons: family commitment, salary gap, and inequality in the job market. 
Discussion 
The first reason is our society has a stereotype that women are less likely to be good at math and science. "Most people associate science and math fields with "male" and humanities and arts fields with "female," according to the research examined in this report." ( p16). Such self-assessment limits girls' interests in STEM fields. The report proves that at an early age, girls and boys differ little in math grades. However, when girls and boys transition from high school to college, the gender gap widens. 
Also, society expects women to take care of their families. The study shows that girls start to feel their family stress even when they are in colleges. According to the professor Gabin said, when women go into the job market, companies sometimes refuse women by saying women cannot commit themselves as men because of family responsibilities (2015, Gabin). Women in STEM are more stressed and long-hour working is pretty common in STEM. It is shown that women in STEM have fewer children. Only 40 percent of them have children compared with 80 percent of women in other non-STEM occupations over period from1971 to 1991 (Blackwell and Glover, 2008). 
The second reason is that women in STEM earn less than men in STEM. Women in STEM fields earn more than women in non-STEM fields. However, from the statistics in the report, women in STEM fields usually earn 33 percent more than women in non-STEM fields. (p1). The report demonstrates that if a man can earn a dollar, a woman only can earn $0. 84 of it. The gender wage gap discourages women from going into STEM fields. 
The report suggests that women earn less because they commit themselves to families and it caused by partially discrimination and partially their choices. I disagree with the opinion that women earn less because of family. For many situations, women work as much as men do, but they still earn less. I find out a statistic shows that unmarried and childless women still have less salary. Even the wage gap has been shrinking in the last five years, we still have such discrimination. Moreover, women are less likely to get into management positions why women earn less compared to men. 
The third reason is discrimination in the job market. There are fewer women in STEM jobs which means fewer women get into management positions. Women lack mentors which is challenging for them because it is hard for them to find support. Sometimes male mentors give them pressure. Studies show that female professors and career role models can positively impact a student's aspirations for a science-related career (2015, Mc Collum). Such models can motivate more women to go into and stay in STEM fields. However, the competition among women discourages them to go into STEM. Women who are in high positions do not want to be replaced by others since those positions are limited. Such pressure may still be caused by men because they try to limit the spaces for women ( Gabin, personal comment). 
Purdue is trying to help female STEM students. As far as I know, Purdue has a program called Women in Engineering. This program is for supporting female engineering students. They organize activities regularly and invite guests to give a speech. It helps them to know other female engineering students and build connections. Also, the dean of college of engineering at Purdue is a lady, which gives students a good model for women students. 
Conclusion 
In conclusion, there is discrimination in the STEM fields. Moreover, this discrimination is associated with the gender roles such as family commit and gender wage gap. More women go into STEM fields; however, it is still fewer compared to non-STEM fields. The society should try to create a good environment to encourage women to get involved in STEM fields. Therefore, we will have better products and more diverse ideas. 
