Abolishing Death Penalty for A Better Legal System in China 
Purdue University 
Abolishing death penalty for a better legal system in China 
After rapid and extensive developments for almost four decades since the beginning of the reform and open-up policy, China has achieved a lot economically and socially. The policy not only provided the ancient country the opportunities and windows to knowing the world, but also helped transform the country with more civilization and justice which was severely destroyed by and during the Cultural Revolution. China has devoted itself to become a country which is ruled by laws rather than by people. However, death penalty still exited and has been widely used in a long period of time. Despite of the fact that death penalty has deterrence value and been a retribution to serious crimes, it is also true that wrong execution will definitely harm human rights as well as the justice and integrity of a legal system. The issue is interesting and worthy a discussion especially because China has set the strategy of ruling by law yet preserved death penalty.(Jiang, 2013). It is important to transmit the idea that abolishing death penalty is a necessary and crucial step to build a better legal system rather than a fruit of the latter. Proponents of death penalty mainly considered that the punishment is a necessary retribution and has a deterrence value. Accordingly, analysis will be carried out from perspective that wrong executions rendered will reversely damage the justice and human right that a legal system that tried to uphold and protect. What's more, abolishing death penalty may also help minimize the damage caused the flaw and inadequacy of the system. 
Deterrence value and retribution rank the top reasons for people to support. According to a multinational research carried out by scholars from three countries, they found that more than half of the respondents from the China considered that death penalty is an appropriate method of retribution and has good deterrence effect (Jiang, Lambert, Wang, Saito and Pilot, 2010). Meanwhile, the proportions in the US and Japan are relatively smaller by 10% to 15% (Jiang et al., 2010). Although the accuracy of surveys was limited by the quantity and scales of the respondents, the result still reflects some common senses on the issues shared by people from different countries. Retribution, or more commonly known as "an eye for an eye", is an ancient form of justice which can be traced back to Code of Hammurabi and Hebrew Law. To equal the seriousness and punishment of a criminal behavior is a fundamental principle under a modern legal system. To countries with a legal system, death penalty will be only adopted to those who committed felonies which are stipulated in penalty codes after long procedures. The severity of death penalty has considered to bring good deterrence effect. In Japanese society, deterrence effect has been the number one reason for people to support the extreme punishment. This country even expressed their favor for capital punishment on occasions such as the UN general assembly (Jiang et al., 2010). It can hardly deny that death penalty indeed has positive value for punish criminals and warning others. However, wrong executions sabotage and weakens the justice and human rights that a legal system tried to protect. In addition, the deterrence effect is not as lasting and good as proponents claim. 
China has attached great importance to death penalty in light of its deterrence effect and retribution. However, wrong execution took place all the time which seriously damage the justice of the legal system(Jiang, 2013). There were many typical cases of wrong executions in recent few years with the popularity of internet which provides rapid method for news to broadcast. One of the most typical cases is She Xianglin case. Before being arrested for the suspect of murdering his wife, She Xianglin was just an ordinary peasant in remote countryside of China. She Xianglin kept appealing to higher courts since being sentenced death. After rotted in jail for about ten years, She Xianglin was proved to be innocent and released. Although he was lucky to spare his life and compensated economically, he can never retrieve his youth and has to be regretful for missing his mother's funeral. There is no doubt that not everyone was as lucky She Xianglin to gain freedom again. During the last two decades of the 20th century, China had adopted unprecedented policy of "Strike Hard". She Xianglin's case was a miniature and a tragedy of the era. The so called "Strike Hard" policy was designed to upheld the justice and improve chaotic social order by using server punishment and deterrence. According to a study by Trevaskes (2008), the figure of high crimes soared from less than 70000 to over a million in 17 years. Although the official has never public announced the figure of death penalty, it was not hard to estimate the scale by the case of She Xianglin. The fact proved that by using death penalty to intimidate people and control the crime rate was a failure. The wide use of death penalty not only caused wrong execution which sacrificed the innocents, but also against the policy of ruling by law and broken the justice and human rights. Without rectifying it timely, a legal system can hardly be complete. 
Proponents also showed their concerns about the possibility of abolishing death penalty in China as they believed death penalty was no more than a result of current legal system. Indeed, death penalty can hardly exist independently away from a legal system nowadays. However, it is just the flaw and inadequacy of the current legal system that calls for the abolishment of death penalty. Despite of the efforts, China has not yet established an independent legal system. Current legal system is not only capable of making wrong executions(Trevaskes, 2013), but also being misguided by irrational factors and deviate the track that meant to be. Few years ago, Chinese people seemed to be pissed by Yao Jiaxing who accidentally injured a woman and stabbed her to death. The court planned to sentence Yao Jiaxing a life prison considering the factors that Yao's family tried to compensate the victim's and Yao has surrendered himself. However, under great pressure from the public because the medias twistted Yao's image, the court had to decide him an instant death penalty. (Miao, 2013). It was sad that both family lost one of their members. What's more pathetic was that the tragedy might took place again without abolishing death penalty under an incomplete legal system. 
Death penalty is an issue that has raised great controversy. In a modern society, death penalty has very close relationship to a legal system. It is commonly considered that death penalty is a result of a verdict according to the laws. People think highly of the deterrence value and retribution effect of death penalty. However, wrong executions took place from time to time. The most terrible thing of wrong executions is that it might irrevocably deprive one's life once for all. What's worse, it also damages justice and human rights which are deemed to be the core of a legal system seriously. There is no perfect and flawless legal system. As a consequence, it is necessary to abolish death penalty so as to minimize the system failure caused by it. China has made a few steps in construction of its legal system in the past few decades. However, a better legal system can hardly be built without abolishing death penalty as it damages the justice and human rights which are the solid foundation. 
