p5d3_arp 
April 26, 2016 
Should college students select their major by themselves? 
When students graduate from high schools, they can choose to work or pursue a higher education. Students who choose to continue their study trip can learn more professional knowledge and get a degree. The degree will influence the students' resume when they apply for a job. The professional knowledge will help students solve some challenging problems. Before students got a certification and learnt those knowledge, they have to select their major at first. The major can decide which degree students will get and which type of knowledge that students can study. Most students do not experience selecting a major before. Thus, should students let their parents decide their majors? As most parents work for a long time, they know how the major will affect future work. Here, I want to share my opinion, which is students should choose their majors by themselves rather letting their parents select. 
One reason is that an interested major will help students achieve their future goals. One significant reason that parents want to involve in is to help their children have a good life. If the interested major could help children founded a good life, it will be considerable for children to choose major by themselves. If a student chose his interested major, he would spend more time on study. Spending more time on study, the student can absorb more knowledge and get more practices. The knowledge and practice that students have studied will help students solve their future problem. Also, it will help students achieve their goals. Namrata Shrestha is a graduate student. She wrote an article named "Don't let parents decide your destiny". She originally chose to a medical major for her parents, but she was not interested in this major. After she studied for a period of time, she said "I no longer wanted to spend all my life doing tedious lab work in a [medical] research lab."(Namrata) Then she changed the major into her interests, economics." I definitely enjoy my classes this year more than I did last year. I would rather have a hectic 9-to-5 job, as long as I have a reason to wake up every morning and look forward to another great day at work." She said.( Namrata) My instructor, <name> also has similar experience. He selected history as his major at first, but he could not find his future goal. After he realized his interested major was education, he changed his major into education. Then he found his future goal and made a plan of his future. From Shrestha and <name> 's experience, I can conclude one thing that is the interested major help them achieve their goals and brought a good life for them. 
Another reason is college students should become independent. As most students grow up, they have to study how to solve problems by themselves. As we know, most parents will prefer to set a schedule for their children before the children become adults. If the students select the major by themselves, they will have a responsibility to schedule their own plans. To make a plan by themselves, students will need to collect some resources, analyze the resources and write down a specific plan. When the students become more self-contained, they will be likely to solve problems well by themselves in the future. Parents will not worry about their children any more at that time. Parents can help their children by giving some suggestions at the first year. because most students need a direction to help them solving problems. After the students can find the direction to solve problems by themselves, parents should give less and less suggestions. According to Agliata and Renk's research, without parents guiding, most freshmen cannot adjust their college life well in the first year. As the communication with their parents increased, most students' adaptability of living in college increased. However, for the third and fourth year, the adaptability of living in college for students increased as the communication with parents decreased. The data also showed the students who get the higher adaptability will be more likely to find a self-worth. Finding the self-worth will help the students made a plan of their future. More independence, more problems solved by themselves, more self-worth they found. 
Moreover, too much parents' control will directly cause the children feel less satisfaction and more depressions. As the children grow up, they will have their own thoughts, and desire to express them with other people. This self-expression will help the students find mistakes and overcome them. After making less mistakes than before, they will feel satisfied and brave to express their own ideas. However, too much parents control will limit their thoughts as students cannot express their thoughts in the plan. After a long time, students will think they are the puppets which means they are not required to have a personal thought. Then they will feel more depression of their life. After their parents stop "manipulating" them, most students will hardly survive in the society. Schiffrin and his partners made a report of students parents controlling and students' satisfaction feeling. Most of students who got many helicopter parenting would have high level depression and less satisfaction with life. Helicopter parenting means parents will watch and give orders to their children. However, when the helicopter parenting behaviors decreased, the satisfaction with life for most students increased. The data also recorded students who have many satisfaction feelings will more enjoy their future lives. Therefore, too much parents' controls will give students' more pressure and less satisfaction of life. 
In Conclusion, I think students should choose their major by themselves. First reason is students' interest will help them come true their future goals; another is more independence will help students survive in the future. Moreover, too much parents controlling will give them a huge pressure and make them feel less satisfaction of life. 
Reference 
Agliata, Allison, Kanter, Renkand Kimberly.(2007). College Students' Adjustment: The Role of Parent-College Student Expectation Discrepancies and Communication Reciprocity. Journal of Youth and Adolescence, 1573-6601. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10964-007-9200-8 
Holly H. Schiffrin, Miriam Liss, Haley Miles-Mc Lean,Katherine A. Geary, Mindy J. Erchull, Taryn Tashner (2014). Helping or hovering? the effects of helicopter parenting on college students' well-being. Journal of Child and Family Studies, 23(3), 548-557. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10826-013-9716-3 
Namrata Shrestha.(2010). Don't let parents decide your destiny. Collegiate Times. 2016. doi: http://www.collegiatetimes.com/opinion/columnists/don-t-let-parents-decide-your-destiny/article_85029908-2b23-516d-93e0-70a5ce1f9a5b.html 
