How Part-time jobs can affect students 
Many students have part-time jobs nowadays. Part-time job may have some potential negative effects on students. For instance, it can influence students' academic performances. However, there are more advantages than disadvantages for students to have part-time jobs. In order for part-time jobs not to affect students' social life and school work, students need to work less than 20 hours per week. Working too much can cause negative impacts on study, students may have low GPA. Due to high volume of working time, part-time jobs may have some potential damage on mental health. It can also shift student's primary focus and causes focus distortion. 
For students, high GPA is important for their future success. However, working more than 20 hours will have negative impacts on students' academic life. Since students work too much every day, they may not have enough time to study. And they could not spend enough time reviewing their notes or doing exercises. As a result, they may get low GPA. On the other hand, part-time jobs will not affect student's study if they work less than 20 hours a week. A research "Effects of Employment on Student Academic Success", compiled by BYU Employment services in December 2006 suggests that part-time jobs do not affect students' GPA if they have appropriate amount of working hours. In college, many top students have part-time jobs as well. According to them, "part-time jobs are great ways to develop self-discipline and independence." But many teachers and parents still think part-time jobs can influence students' school work. And some students complained they cannot do well in school if they have part-time jobs. However, on the basis of BYU Employment Study, only students with more than 20 working hours per week will get influenced by work. In other word, poor school work is not really related to part-time jobs. Since only working excessively can affect GPA, students can do well in both work and study by managing their time wisely. 
College life is tough. Students often study until midnight. Therefore, health problem has become an essential problem among the college. Some students even have some mental health problem due to part-time jobs. If students have more than 20 working hours a week they will not have enough energy to participate in extra activities. In college, students should enjoy their colorful life and take part in as many activities as possible. Nevertheless, many students do not participate in any kinds of activities, since they are really tired and exhausted after work. Therefore, they are likely to get frustrated and upset. In addition, they do not want to talk with their friends and family about their problem. Little by little, they become lonely and it is bad for their mental health. They begin to be afraid of talking to people. Under a highly tense study atmosphere, students need to take part in some activities to help them relax. It is really important for students to interact with other. I used to work more than 20 hours a week in the Ford Dinning Hall. In my first working week, I worked until late night and I could not get enough sleep. Every day after work, the only thing I wanted to do is to sleep. Thus, I missed many club activities and missed too much fun. 
The priority for students is study. Therefore, students should put most of their energy and attention on study. Working more than 20 hours can make students lose their focus. Most students in college are full-time students. Their main focus should be studying not working. However, some students work too much. If they work too much in the college they may lose their balance between working and studying. Since they work more than 20 hours a week, they are likely to spend less time doing their homework than working. In addition, some students have part-time jobs for money. Their main goal in college can change from education to making money. Little by little, they become obsessed with money. All they want to do is to work more in order to earn more money. As a result, they may pay less attention on studying. For instance, they would not review and they might do their homework and assignment carelessly. All they care about is part-time job. Not all students can lose their focus. But students with too many working hours are likely to lose their priority. 
In the conclusion, proper part-time jobs have no negative effects on students. However, working too much, more than 20 hours a week, can have some negative effects on students. In addition, excessively part-time job can cause some health problem and also some mental problem issue. It can also shift student's priority in college. All in all, students should have a healthy working hours which is less than 20 hours per week. 
