Argumentative Paper, D1 
4/1/2016 
Engineering as Consultant 
Introduction 
In today's society, people see engineering as a fascinating subject yet technical and complex. The currently prevalent view that exists is engineers are people who invent "cool stuffs" since many advanced inventions had been made in the last couple of years that people thought was impossible at first. However, I think this perspective does not see the value of engineering as it was made the first time. "Ingenium", a latin word for engineering, it means talent and cleverness. So engineering in contextual is way beyond those science and invention, it is a way of thinking. 
After studying here for about 9 months, I saw and heard stories about what engineering students do after they received their bachelor degree. During my interview with Mr. <Name>, <Position>, he showed some statistics. One that caught my attention was that when he claimed 76% of Purdue students go to manufacturing, practical and technical field after they graduate (personal communication, February 26, 2016). As an engineering freshman who's dream job is in the consulting and analytic field, I don't know how to react. So that is why I came up with this topic. I think more of my fellow engineers should look more into this field. 
About 27% of Purdue engineering student are in the engineering major. And one of the possible reason of this I believe is that Purdue ranks #9 for engineering in the United States. It is not an easy major, some people changed their mind and convert into another major during their first year. This is why I consider this matter to be important. Besides it can be useful for other majors. In my opinion, which I think is quite unique compared to other's viewpoint, engineering trains your logic and how you solve problems and that is a necessity skill in the world of consulting. So my main point is that engineering students should consider consulting as one of their major job opportunities because it has many benefits and offer different career paths. 
Body 
One of the rationale that came up to my mind about why engineers should consider consulting was the trend that currently exists. According to a publication made by American Association of Engineering Education, the amount of engineering's bachelor degree grew 5. 6 percent during 2013, it reached 83,100. Even though all of the other fields also grew, but engineering has the highest trend. However, the problem is that high trend was not matched up with a high trend of employment in the field of practical and technical engineers. To conclude, the supply for engineers exceeds the demand. This is why we need to consider another plan for the future, which is the consulting area. 
	Working in a consulting firm is flexible, you can come from many different majors and once you're in it, it can lead you to different career paths. As an example, one of the partner at Bain & Company Global Head of Consultant, Keith Bevans, graduated from electrical engineering at MIT. He really love his work right now because it is similar to what an electrical engineer do, solve problems but in a bigger scale, consulting and improving companies that hire him. Working in the consulting, makes you learn new things, because every week, you will face different clients with different problems. 
	Consulting can lead you to many career paths. As an example, the CEO of Allianz, Oliver Bate, was a former employee of Mc Kinsey & Co. The current CEO of Louis Vitton and LEGO Group are also former employees of Mc Kinsey & Co. These companies are not related to consulting, however those people take the lessons that they got when they work in the firm and used it as their leverage to pursue their career path. 
	Probably some of the engineering students will think that why should they look at consulting, they already look at how big the starting salaries are for engineering jobs out there. However in reality, it doesn't vary that much and actually some of the consulting company have a higher salary. According to the Purdue's CCO statistics about student salaries in May 2011, the average engineering students will have a starting salary of $55,000, with the highest average was computer engineering, $65,000. Now, here is the other side, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics website, Mc Kinsey&Co gives its business and research analyst about $75,000 a year, while Bain gives its associate consultants around $71,000 a year. Both of these companies are ranked top 5 in the consulting world. They hire a lot of engineers because they want people who can solve problems. This is why I think from the economic side, it is essential to look at the consulting chance. 
Another thing that people may say that they want to work for the cool companies that invent things. I talked with one of my parent's friend who's currently a CEO in one America's biggest company, Caterpillar. He said, usually from all the engineers that they hire, only around 10% will get promoted and make his way up to the company's positions. Now, the big question is how many people want to work in the lab until their pension time arrived? The ones who's going to end up in the high position of that "cool" companies is actually the people who knows how to lead, solve problems and manage their employee, and many people can get this experience through working in the consulting field. 
Conclusion 
	At the end, I just want to open the eyes of the Purdue students (especially engineering) and make them realize that there are many job opportunities awaiting them after they graduate, particularly in the consulting field. It is true that it is going to be a big change from the engineering world to the consulting and analytics, but you will not grow if you don't explore and try new things, so why shouldn't you? 
