University is the place that people used to choose to receive higher education, and it is a portal to new world with chances and challenges. People from all around the world try to get into top universities in the world, and that causes cultural diversity in college. People have different point of views about whether cultural diversity is good or not for universities all around the world. In my opinion, I think cultural diversity in colleges has positive effects on students' life and can help them go further in their own careers. 
It is true that some students may get influenced in a bad way by living in an environment with people have different cultural backgrounds. Some of them are afraid of other cultures and just stay in their comfort zones. Some of them just sightlessly follow the part of a culture which is not the core part and even a negative part. For example my uncle's son came to US to study Economy 2 years ago. He thought he should get on well with his American friends, and he just followed them to do everything. He touched drugs by hang out with his American friends, and eventually he got addicted to drugs and was caught by police. Now, unfortunately he has been sent back to China. However, these are only minor groups of students in colleges. For most part of students, they are willing to cooperate and communicate with people with different background, and they have the ability to recognize the difference between right and wrong. So those negative phenomenon will not happen frequently in colleges. 
Living in a cross-cultural area can help students to improve their cross-cultural skills. According to the interview with Professor <name>, cultural diversity is a common phenomenon in colleges all around the world. Universities have a huge populations of international students. Domestic students and international students take lots of same classes, which result in learning about other cultures and working with people from other countries. They can experience the different cultures and learn important skills. Students could get out of their original life, and they could view the world at an entire new perspective. They will not be limited in their own thinking and perspectives. By communicating and cooperating with people from other countries, students have chances to learn and accept other cultures. They can talk with people with different background in different classes. Some of them are from different countries. They can know more information and correct their stereotype of other countries. Students can have better understanding of other cultures. Also, they need to cooperate with people from different countries for the assignments and assessments for different classes. In order to get each student's own work done and have a better grade, each student need to know how to communicate with them and need to know their habits and their cultures' rules so that they can avoid lots of different kind of awkward situations. Thus, by having those classes and learning from other cultures, they can improve their cross-cultural communication and cooperation skills. 	 
Also, Students with cross-cultural skills and better understanding of different cultures can have a higher chance to be employed. According to Gift .M.J, Gift .P & Zheng. Q (2013), the culture value differences result in the difference of perceptions when it encounters the trades between countries. The huge culture difference has played a major role in the business trades. More companies have extend their business to internationalize. They need to trade with companies from all around the world so that they can make more profits. By doing international business, companies need to encounter the problems caused by culture difference. Those companies need their employees to be able to communicate and cooperate with people from other countries. This needs not only fluent language, but also cross-cultural skills and understanding of other cultures. Companies are willing to hire employees with abilities listed above. Also, companies can save a lot of money by hiring students with cross-cultural abilities and better understanding of different cultures because they do not need to spend money and time to train those students. This is another reason why companies want students with skills listed. So students with cross-cultural skills can have a higher chance to be employed by companies. 
What's more, Students with cross-cultural cooperation skills and communication skills could help students perform better in their future teams and companies. According to Matveev. A & Nelson. P (2004), well understanding of cross cultural environment and cross-cultural skills are needed for team members. As the companies are expanding globally, the employees of the companies are getting diverse. All of those employees have different knowledge background and cultural background. They are all from different areas and countries and have different cultural habits. In order to be more productive and faster, companies divide their employees into lots of teams so that they can work on projects together. In order to prevent problems caused by culture difference, each member in teams need to well understand the cultures of their teammates and respect them. Teams with diverse members can generate ideas and solutions with higher quality and broader vision. They will not be seriously influenced by lack of ideas and visions. Those teams can be more productive than those teams without diverse members. As a result, there is a significant relationship between cross cultural communication and multicultural teams. Cross cultural communication competence can help to increase the possibilities to get a better team performance and reduce the pressure and conflicts in a multicultural team. 
In the conclusion, living in cross-cultural areas can help students improve their cross-cultural communication skills and cooperation skills. Nowadays, cultural difference plays a big role among big companies. They are lack of employees and managers who have those skills. Students with those skills can have a higher chance to be employed by those companies. Have those skills can help students and their future teams have a better performance and career development in their future companies. Thus, cultural diversity has good effect of students' life and can help them in their own future careers. 
