Introduction 
Nowadays, frequent employee turnover has restricted the development of hotel businesses. According to Ongori(2007), "employee turnover is the rotation of workers around the labor market between firms, jobs, and occupations, and between the states of employment and unemployment" (p.49). It has been increasingly recognized that the competition between hotel businesses is actually the competition over numbers of highly educated employees. As a result, there has been much discussion recently about what causes employee turnover. Some hotel managers believe that the issue of wages is the most important reason. However, in most cases, job dissatisfaction has led employees to job-hop because of ineffective communication between staff and hotel managers, inadequate compensation, and lack of opportunities for professional development, employees choose to quit their company. 
The first reason that causes employee turnover is the ineffective communication between staff and hotel managers. Nowadays, most hotel managers have realized the great importance of effective communication between employers and employees, but they still find it difficult to do so. Communication is bidirectional and it includes both superior to subordinate and subordinate to superior. In a general way, the communication of superior to subordinate exists more often. Usually, managers give orders to staff and make employees follow the orders without asking their opinions. However, employees have few opportunities to openly express their thoughts and complaints. In most cases, even if they tell managers their ideas, they may get criticism and even demotion. Especially in the hospitality and tourism industry, a rigid hierarchical industry, most employees feel afraid of expressing their opinions. Plus, employees often work extra hours, so they hardly have time to sit down and talk with their employers. Therefore, ineffective communication between staff and hotel managers has become one of the major reasons that leads to employee job-hopping. 
Second, lack of benefits leads employees to quit their jobs. Employees always flock to companies that offer more benefits. (Rampur, 2009) There are many employees who are not aware of the benefits that are provided to them in their compensation package. Employers need to reduce their bureaucratic procedures in order for the employees to receive the best available benefits without any difficulty. They should make a note of all the benefits that other organizations are providing, which may attract their current employees. 
Finally, due to the lack of opportunities for individual development, employees tend to leave their organizations. From a personal perspective, employees need opportunities to learn and grow. Human development occurs throughout the lifespan, which is why employees who become stifled, stunted, or stuck in their jobs are the most likely to find different jobs. (Jevon, 2012) Departed employees are not satisfied with their individual development because they have few opportunities for advanced studies, improvement, and promotions. Every worker will carefully consider his or her career planning and when they feel that they do not have broad space for development, they may leave their organizations to seek more development opportunities. For example, they will work in the hotels which can provide them with a well-developed training system. From an organizational perspective, most hotel businesses provide less training and further study opportunities in order to lower the operating cost. They simply ignore the individual development of the staff and fail to make the most use of human resources. Many hotel managers think that it is unworthwhile to put much effort into employee training because they worry about employee job-hopping, especially young workers. Those who have the chances to get professional training overseas are usually general managers and vice-general managers, however, other employees rarely have this kind of chances. 
Many people believe that wages in the hospitality and tourism industry are relatively low, (Ghiselli, La Lopa & Bai, 2001) so many employees decide to quit their jobs. Salary is the main channel that fulfills employees' material needs, and it also builds mutual interest relationship between employers and employees, as a result, employees are in search of jobs that pay well. If the companies in which they are working don't offer good salaries, they tend to hunt for jobs that pay them considerably well. Nevertheless, according to the research, most departed staff leave their organizations because their companies fail to provide them with plenty of professional development opportunities. As for employees themselves, personal career development is far more important than the wage. If their companies offer their employees more opportunities, such as study abroad, continuing studying, and professional training, employees will improve themselves a lot and become high-qualified staff finally. Also, they may feel grateful to their company and continue to work for their companies. Thus, it is beneficial for both businesses and employees. 
Conclusion 
In short, because of ineffective communication between staff and hotel managers, inadequate compensation, and lack of opportunities for professional development, employees in the hospitality and tourism industry choose to quit their jobs. 
