Argumentative Essay, Draft 1 
4/1/2016 
Argumentative Essay: 
How Opportunity Cost Plays An Important Role In Our Daily Lives 
According to Parkin (2010), who is a highly ranked professor in the department of economics from the University of Western Ontario, an opportunity cost of an event is the cost of the preeminent alternative that we must waive in order to get it - meaning that it is the loss of potential gain from an alternative when another alternative is chosen. 
Previous research concludes that consumers often fail to develop calculated alternatives in order to consider the opportunity costs of a purchase. This is because consumers are more inclined to get straight to the point rather than stipulate other possibilities. For example, according to Frederick, Novemsky, Wang, Dhar, & Nowlis (2009), "when participants were permitted to ask questions about some opportunity (such as going to see a film in a foreign city) before deciding whether to do it, their inquiries pertained almost exclusively to the focal event rather than to possible alternatives" (p. 554). This goes to show that people are generally not very willing to explore possibilities other than the ones already directly ahead of them. Therefore, my claim is to expose people to opportunity cost so they are more likely to make more rational decisions. 
The first counterargument is that people are social animals and so they just sometimes follow their instincts to make decisions. However, without any sort of prior knowledge, there is no way people are able to follow their instincts to make decisions. 
Another counterargument to my claim of exposing people to opportunity cost so they are more likely to make more rational decisions would be that people are inevitably using the concept, even without actual knowledge of the term 'opportunity cost'. This may be true, but surely knowing what an opportunity cost would broaden one's mind and make them think a bit more when it comes to decision making in the future. 
In conclusion, the counterclaims that I received made fair points. However, I truly believe that we should expose people to opportunity cost as they would have more of an option as to what they can decide on. 
