P5D1 Assignment 1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15th, 2015	 
Chinese Movie and It's Market 
	Dramatically increasing in the box office of the Chinese movie market, a great enlarging of the size of the Chinese movie market, the China faces a serious problem of how to make the Chinese market in a good order. Many people are saying that Chinese movie is being through a great change and movie marketing as one of the most important step in the movie industry. Thus, a huge reform in the Chinese movie area has taken place in China, aiming to maximize the profit and the positive influence of the movie. Specifically, the Chinese government encourages movie studios to get more corporations with the Hollywood studios, seeking for more opportunities to work together. As a result, Chinese movie can have a truly development. 
To begin with, as what Professor Lance Daceterk told me, no matter how this business changes, the core element is always the same: movie. Some of the studios may get fame because of one or two successful operations of movie marketing help the movie get a high box office, but they will never make the true typical movie that can influence generation by generation. Marketing may be a good way to earn quick money from an unsophisticated market. However, time will tell us all the truth. The true development of a country's movie should be eternal but not some kinds of quick money. 
Some people may argue that Chinese movies are mature enough and can gain a great amount of the box offices. They stated that Chinese movie market is big enough to influence the whole world. Nevertheless, the world wide Medias use long pages to praise the growing of the Chinese movies. Thus, even some of the most critical critics have blinded their mind, holding positive views to the future of the Chinese movie market. However, the huge problem is that the great amount of the size of the Chinese movie market is not the actual improvement of the movie itself. The reason was that the economies was increasing in the past few years in China so that more and more Chinese audience chose to walk into the cinema to look at movies instead of stay at home and look at the DVD. According to the newest released data, only last year, 4000 new screens were added to the second and third line cities. Based on this data we can see that the quick increase is not because of the movie quality was growing, the actual reason help the booming of the box office is more new and fresh audience choose to walk into the cinema. However, what can Chinese market do after it dig out all the potential energy from the market. Apparently, the Chinese movie market is only being through a short-term explosion in because of the size of the market itself enlarged. Thus, we can hardly say that Chinese movie market became sophisticated enough. The truth is that the Chinese movie industry still lack of lot of distinguished steps to manufacture highly completed movies. 
Nevertheless, if the industry started to grow more sophisticated but the producers and other movie workers do not learn to develop, the Chinese movie will still face hardness to develop itself. Thus, the participators in the movie industry should also seek for ways to develop. Specifically, the producers should recruit more graduates from the US movie colleges. Those people are totally educated by the Hollywood style. Besides, more staffs from the movie companies should find the opportunities to study aboard, bringing the most highly developed techniques and concepts from those traditional movie country. After years of professional study, studios will be all with professional knowledge and skills to make the actual sophisticated films. 
To sum up, cooperating with Hollywood, standing for the traditional gorgeous Chinese movie, and, avoiding from making the same mistakes in the movie marketing area that Chinese movie always make will give the Chinese movie a more sophisticated market. In turn, the society will greatly benefit from those great meaningful movies. Additionally, if the movie industry grows in a fast healthy way, this entertainment system will help the Chinese society got a more diverse environment and can do positive influence to the whole country. 
