P5D2 Argumentative Essay 
April 26, 2015 
Car Energy Technology 
	The most common method of transportation in the world is the gas powered car. Nowadays, however, some people want the gas engine out of their daily lives. I think that moving away from the gas engine to the current alternatives with the current technology will cause nothing but more damage to the environment. 
	For starters, current gas engines can be modified to use biofuels, a renewable source, so they can run with nearly the same efficiency as regular gas engines. One of the main current alternatives is the electric car which uses batteries to store the energy in them. The electric car is not nearly as efficient as the gas engine, because it needs to be charged for a day in order to go 230 miles unlike the gas car which can be simply refueled in minutes. Also as the car increases in size and weight the efficiency of the electric engine drops exponentially, making semis almost impossible to power by batteries only. ( <name> , personal communication, 2015) 
	In addition, battery production produces a lot of harmful byproducts to the environment. With the current battery technology, each battery will have a life expectancy of five years and if the world relies on them primarily the current damage to the environment will be amplified, leading to more toxics being added to an already polluted environment. According to Troy Hawkins, "[batteries] will cause the same amount of damage to the environment as gas engines."(2013) Also, lithium batteries may cause some health concerns. The EPA even linked the lithium batteries with "everything from cancer to neurological problems" (Braun, 2013) making the production of lithium batteries very harmful. Moreover, having a lithium battery will cause a lot of safety issues because if the lithium is exposed to the water vapor in the air it will catch fire and may cause an explosion. 
	Another alternative to the gas engine is the hybrid car. The hybrid car uses a mixture of batteries and gas to power the engine. The claim is they get better "mileage", which is how many miles are covered with one gallon of gas. But according to <name> , "hybrids do not get better mileage than normal gas cars." Even though the EPA claims number of miles per gallon, usually when professionals who test cars get lower mileage. In addition, the consumption is even more in real life and the mileage is lower. Making the hybrid car very ineffective in reducing the gas consumption or pollution. Moreover, hybrids have batteries in them, which share the same weaknesses as batteries in electric cars but the weaknesses in hybrids are more apparent. Because of how hybrids are structured they cannot get a lot of power to the wheels efficiently as the car switches back and forth between two sources. Another problem is the batteries now have gas near them so if they do get exposed to the air they will catch fire and cause a doubling effect with the fuel in the tank. 
	One of the arguments people may have against staying with gas engines is that cars produce a lot of carbon dioxide which harms the environment in the long run, as it contributes to global warming and severe weather conditions. It may be true that the effect of carbon dioxide in the long run is harmful to the earth, but the battery production may cause more damage to us in the shorter term which I think is much more important. The question is will your grandchildren live in a terrible future or will your grandchildren be able to live at all? 
	A second argument is that gas prices are always rising. This is true gas prices are always rising, but also batteries will cost less and less in the short term then the prices will start rising, as a matter of fact, everything costs more overtime, it is one of the major side effects of inflation. ("Historical Inflation Rate", 2015) Because of how the world economic growth is based on inflation, it will not go away anytime soon. 
	Another argument is that gas companies hold a monopoly over the gas supply and as the gas reserve ends this will cause a huge price jump leading to people unable to afford to run their cars. This argument is true, but lithium is the main component of most batteries is also a natural resource that can be monopolized and have the same consequences as gasoline. 
	In conclusion, I think the gas engine is irreplaceable in the near future, because the alternatives mainly use batteries as a main source of power which hold many environmental concerns and health issues that may not make us see our future entirely. However, as more research is done and more technologies evolve, the gas engine will be replaced to a more environmentally friendly alternative. 
