Obesity 
Purdue University 
Obesity 
	Nowadays, as people concentrate more on their health, how to solve health problems becomes a huge problem. Nevertheless, people might neglect some body concerns, such as obesity, which can bring lots of extra problems. In order to get alert of our health, we need to recognize the seriousness of obesity and avoid the terrible results. 
	One might subject here that obesity is not a direct illness like cancer, leukemia and so on. Cancer and leukemia are very easy to cause people to death. To be more specific, obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent. According to the definition of obesity, we can't directly define obesity as disease (Wikipedia, 2015). It seems like obesity will not cause any big problems. However, obesity actually have many negative effects on health, leading to reduced life expectancy and raised health concerns. At the same time, obesity will create some inconveniences to people's daily life. 
	Obesity causes people illness. According to Medi-Weightloss, more than 65 million adults and 10 million children over the world suffer from obesity (Medi-Weighloss, 2015). Being morbidly obese can compromise your health, shorten your life, and even cause death. If people are overweight, the probability of developing heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure will increase significantly. Here are the top 3 obesity-related diseases (Medi-Weighloss, 2015). The first one is high blood pressure, and it is the main cause of death for Americans who are over 25. The reason why obesity causes high blood pressure is people normally need more oxygen for fat body. In order to transport oxygen to every corner of body, people need more blood supply than normal. Therefore the amount of blood flow through blood vessels per unit time increases, resulting in higher blood pressure. Another main illness caused by obesity is diabetes. Because being overweight leads to the development of diabetes by making cells more resistant to the effects of insulin (Medi-Weighloss, 2015). The third one is heart disease, because of the excessive fat accumulation, the blood volume increases and causes extra load for heart. Besides these three obesity-related diseases, many other health care costs are now related with obesity. 
	Obesity could bring lots of inconvenience to people. According to Macadam's example, her sister Lily is obese, and Lily experienced a harder life. Sometimes she even had a hard time in vacating enough place to clean herself. She feels extremely tired if she walks too far or goes upstair. Furthermore, her neck makes she feel breathless and it is very dangerous. Macadem said, "the terrible thing is there is no way to go to the cinema for a movie or go to the concert. Some public chairs are too small to contain obese people. Obese people can's use narrow toilet in public restroom as well because of their big body size". When obese people take plane, they have to book up to two seats and pay for two tickets. In this way, obese people still feel sad because people sometimes talk about their size. Obese people consume more oxygen for their body, so sometimes they feel sleepy and drowsy. It is typical that obese people react slowly. 
	If people want to find the way to avoid obesity, I think figuring out the causes of obesity is an important part. My interviewee <name> indicated that obesity is already a huge health concern. She said, "Due to the advanced technology nowadays, people don't have to do anything by themselves because someone else could do for them". Some simple examples like the server in restaurant, the barber in the barbershop and cashier in the market. What's more? Macadam also said, "People don't work physically as much, such as we would like to cut wood by using machine instead of cutting wood by ourselves. Secondly, people have fewer time and chance to walk to some place and people can call and text to their friends instead of meeting together". Furthermore, the majority of diverse transportations is another reason. People would like to take bus and subway rather than to walk. Those kinds of lifestyle allow people have more chances to become obese, so having more knowledge about obesity is helpful for everyone. 
	We can do something to avoid some bad results caused by obesity. The President and Fellows of Harvard College indicated that we can prevent obesity mainly through food and exercise. To begin with, the food environment surrounding us influences what we eat (The President and Fellows of Harvard, 2015). To be more specific, people would like to purchase healthy food if the nearest market is able to provide various kinds of healthy food. The prior way to avoid obesity is: making healthy foods and drinks more convenient and affordable can be the first step and reduce the quantity of junk food and any high fat food, so as to create a healthy food environment (The President and Fellows of Harvard, 2015). Lack of exercise can be another reason that causes obesity, so improving healthy activity environment could be the second way to avoid obesity. To be more specific, environment is really important, which affects people's behaviors. If there are no safe places to ride bikes, few people will commute by riding bikes to work or school. If there are no gyms nearby, few people will choose to exercise. So increasing the number of exercise place can be a good choice to solve obesity. In addition, the organizations, such as school, government and company should encourage people to do more exercise. Furthermore, setting up a scientific training system is also important (Haiken, 2012). Scientific training system helps people achieve golas faster. 
	To sum up, I think obesity has not been regarded as a very serious problem for some people because it is just a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent (Medi-Weighloss, 2015). However, after the research, we know that obesity does have lots of bad results. For example, it will be the cause of some illness and it will bring inconvenience. People need to recognize that obesity is already a huge health concern now. Trying to find a way to avoid and solve it should be a very important thing. 
reference page		 
The President and Fellows of Harvard College. 2015. Obsity Prevention Stratgies. Harvard T.H . CHAN, School of Public Health. http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/obesity-prevention-source/obesity-prevention/ 
Medi-Weightloss. 2015. Discover the Heath Risks. Medical Weight Loss Resources. https://www.mediweightlossclinics.com/patients/resources/articles/obesity-facts/ 
Melanie, Haiken. 2012, January. 5 Surprising Weight-Loss Strategies. Forbes Lifestyle. 
http://www.forbes.com/sites/melaniehaiken/2012/01/09/5-surprising-weight-loss-strategies-that-work-hint-diets-dont/ 
3 
Obesity 
1 
Running head: Obesity 
