Argumentative Paper 
Nov. 21, 2015 
Open Your Minds and Erase the Misunderstandings 
Sinophobia, a phenomenon which people against China and China-related things, has been existing in the United States for hundreds of years and still have strong influences in the U.S.'s society. Even thought people nowadays are becoming more and more liberal inclusive, the condition of Sinophobia in the United States is still severe and might be worsen in the future. As the world has increasingly getting close even as a whole, the existence of Sinophobia is an obstacle which prevent people around the world from getting to know each other. In my opinion, for the sake of international cultural and economic exchange between the United States and China, Sinophobia in the U.S. should be conquered. 
The first main reason of Sinophobia is named "China Threat Theory", but I think it's a nonsense. It first showed up in the 1990s caused by the unmatched economic growth of China. Although the Western countries were acclaiming the economic achievements of China, they were also getting progressively concerned about severe rivalry that China will pose to the West. They deny the rise of China as a peaceful rise. According to Waltz1993, economic race is always as powerful as military race. Furthermore, since nuclear weapons restrict the usage of army, we may presume economic and technological competition among them to become stronger. In my opinion, China's economic growth should not be the cause of Sinophobia. Firstly, although China's economic growth has amazed the world, China is a developing country, many people and areas in China are still under hunger and poverty. Secondly, Chinese businesses are actually play a significant role in the American economic by making profound investments in the United States. Therefore, the China Threat Theory should not be a problem which prevents China and the United States getting to know each other. Atbra, 2002 
In conclusion, I think the Sinophobia should be conquered in the future since many of its causes like "China Threat Theory", and the anti-sentiment towards China's environment crisis are invalid and are misunderstandings. And as the world is growing connected together, if the biases between China and the United States is still existing, the Sinophobia would become severer. On the other word, the relationship between the United States and China, between Americans and Chinese will become indifferent. 
