Argumentative Paper (Final) 
April 28th, 2015 
1294 words 
Introduction 
When problems arise with something one solution is to look for a replacement that not only does the same functions as the original, but also is better than the original. This is no less true for the use of natural resources, such as coal. The harmful effects of converting coal into electricity has brought to light the usefulness and potential benefits of photovoltaic cells for the generation of electricity. Through the various papers I have done, I have increased my understanding of the complex issues that surround PVC. I read academic research sources and spoke to an expert to more completely understand this important topic. Starting off with many doubts, queries and research questions I have now finally come to a conclusion. This extensive research has made me more knowledgeable and aware of the various alternative technologies that help the environment in every small way possible. The question I originally asked was if Photovoltaic cells replace coal effectively in the production of electricity, but then I realized this question was too simple to address such a complex idea. The better questions to ask would be when or where can photovoltaic cells replace, or support, coal and how cost effective this would be. 
What was the need for an alternative? 
	For several hundred years and counting, Coal has been an integral part of producing electricity. Coal provides 30.1% of the primary global energy needs and generates over 40% of the world's electricity. That is the importance of coal. All went well till we started facing the consequence of using this became the primary source of base load power in the world. It could produce more electricity than most fuel source and hence became the most used fuel source to generate electricity. It was time to get an alternative that ensured production of electricity with the same efficiency. The need for an alternative not only arises from the fact that, coal pollutes the environment and produces harmful byproducts, but more so from that it is a non-renewable source of energy. There might be a point in the future where we won't have sufficient coal to burn to produce electricity if we don't act fast. By using this alternative technology we can use the natural resources around us and allow these non-renewable resources to replenish. 
When and where can Photovoltaic cells be used? 
Photovoltaic cells are a great innovation. It uses the most abundantly available natural resource-sunlight, to produce useable electricity. The photovoltaic cells simply absorb cells simply absorb the sunlight and converts it into electricity that can be either used or stored in batteries. According to U.S. International Energy Agency (IEA), solar electricity is going to be the top sources of electricity by 2050. Over the last few decade's photovoltaic cells and photovoltaic systems have been increasingly being used. One of the common questions asked is if location really matters when these cells are being installed. To answer this question, I interviewed, Professor <Name>, an expert in computing semi-conductor devices, semi-conductor physics and photovoltaic cells. . Professor <Name>, did not hesitate when he identified that the amount of sunlight where the cells are installed does not affect their efficiency. He offered Germany as an example. Germany is one of the largest users of PVC, yet they receive less sunlight than Indiana (Professor personal communication). 
This would imply that the geographical location of the place doesn't really affect the usage these cells. The other commonly asked question would be where these cells could be used. The photovoltaic cells has already played a role in some industries and has helped in many areas such as supplying power to satellites, radio relay stations, time stamp machines and devices, public lighting, and signage systems. It can also be used in solar pumping of underground water and in electrical devices. In addition to this, residential and local solar panels have gained popularity incredibly fast. Consumers use solar panels to provide for domestic purposes such as water heating, temperature room control and other electrical appliances as this reduces their electricity bill significantly. The government have installed these solar panels around town to satisfy small energy needs. Although it would be slightly futuristic to say photovoltaic cells can replace coal in generation of electricity, photovoltaic cells have taken over a number of areas where initially coal powered electricity was used. Like they say every drop makes an ocean, similarly these small scale changes are a true indication of the large scale indication that is going to take place. 
The costs included in both technology 
The common stigma attached with the photovoltaic cells are the costs incurred. It is believed that the cost of installation, maintenance, storage and disposal costs are very high. Although this might not be fully wrong, we tend to forget the costs incurred by coal- the generation, distribution and transmission costs. Both these process require a good amount of money to function. A term I learnt from interviewing my expert was the LCOE - Levelized Cost of Electricity. It is the cost of generating electricity at the point of connection to a load. This is an economic measure that compares different methods of electricity generation on a comparable basis. We would require this to make an accurate decision of which resource- coal or photovoltaic cell was more economically feasible. An interesting fact to note is that since 2007, the cost of solar powered electricity has been significantly cheaper than that of other fuels. This is because the price of the raw material required to construct photovoltaic cells- polysilicon has been dropping. Research shows that over the next few years other developments to increase the efficiency of solar cells will be developed that will further demand only inexpensive raw materials. The so called high costs would not be a problem for developed countries and this itself would reduce our reliance on non-renewable sources by a great margin. 
What would be our most viable solution? 
A key point to be noted is that any manufacturing process would have some negative effects and would not be perfect. So our most viable solution would be to combine several natural resources that complement each other thereby subtracting the drawbacks and collectively increasing the efficiency. Over the years many natural resources have proven to be reliable and have cratered to our needs. We could produce electricity by using many other natural resources such as wind energy, biomass, geothermal energy hydroelectric power plants and tide energy. These energy sources if situated in an ideal location can produce tons of electricity that would reduce our reliance on coal to produce electricity. Only when all pieces of a puzzle are put together is the picture complete, likewise combining all these natural forms of abundantly available energy could further enhance the efficiency of it. 
Conclusion 
The saying "Don't be penny wise pound foolish" aptly describes this topic. To save on some amount of money we are damaging our world in a way that might be irreversible. We have been blessed with abundant untapped resources. New discoveries are made every day regarding the use of some natural resource helping the mankind. If we collectively work towards making this world a safer and healthier place it would be possible only by using these resources provided to us. Photovoltaic cells have a great potential that could be used in several different places and does bringing down our dependence on these fossil fuels. A short term benefit could be a long term loss. 
