P5D3 Argumentative essay 
May 3, 2015 
Is Vegetarianism a Good Diet? 
	Although I'm not a vegetarian, I once conducted a vegetarian diet for two weeks in order to lose some weight and keep fit. And it came out that vegetarian diet did help me to control body weight. However, my cold took a long time to recover which made me wonder if there was a relationship between vegetarian diet and health. A vegetarian diet is a type of diet that excludes meat, eggs, dairy products and all other animal-derived ingredients. Is a vegetarian diet a good diet? The answer is yes. There are several researches and publications to prove that a vegetarian can gain all he or she needs by conducting a vegetarian diet. 
	There are several benefits that people can gain from the vegetarian diet. First of all, conducting a vegetarian diet can lower the potential risks of many chronic diseases. According to ADA American Dietetic Association, vegetarians are at a lower risk of suffering heart diseases, colorectal, ovarian and breast cancers, diabetes, obesity and hypertension. The reason is that vegetarian diet has less fat, sugar and salt, but more fiber. Since saturated fats raises the level of cholesterol in blood. High levels of cholesterol in blood increase the risk of heart disease and stroke. And eating too much sugar will raise blood glucose which puts people at high risk of diabetes. Also, having too much salt in the diet will lead to high blood pressure. However, by conducting a vegetarian diet and taking more fiber, people can control the body weight, low down the blood pressure and have better skin health, etc. Also, according to Fraser, there's convincing evidence that vegetarians' cancer rate appears to be moderately lower than those of other living in the same communities. Moreover, life expectancy appears to be greater of the former. <name> the dietitian who I interviewed agreed that if a vegetarian conducted a plant based diet, there were indeed several health benefits. There are several studies that show a positive correlation between eating a more plant based diet and different health outcomes. People who had more fruits and vegetables were showed to have a lower BMI Body Mass Index, a reduced risk for cardiovascular diseases or hypertension, a lower cancer rate and a lower blood pressure, etc. Therefore, by conducting a vegetarian diet people can manage their health better and are less likely to suffer chronic diseases. 
	In addition to lower risks of diseases, vegetarians also gain more nutrients by consuming more nutrient rich food. According to Dietary Guidelines for Americans, vegetables and fruits are the best sources of Vitamin A carotenoids, Vitamin C, folate and potassium. By consuming various fruits and vegetables, vegetarians can gain all the nutrients they need for a healthy life. Also the article Health Effects of Vegetarian and Vegan Diets 2006 by Key, Appleby and Rosell, especially focuses on the nutrients intake of vegetarians. With a great deal of data to support, there are usually enough carbohydrates, n-6fatty acids, dietary fiber, carotenoids, folic acid, vitamin C, vitamin E and Mg in vegetarian diets. All these evidence show that people can gain what they need from vegetarian diet. 
	Despite benefits of disease prevention and nutrition gaining, vegetarians also do well in physical performance. According to Berning, there are advantages for athletes especially long-distance runners to consume a vegetarian diet. It is because that vegetarian athletes usually gain a higher proportion of energy from carbohydrates by conducting a vegetarian diet. By having more carbohydrates in their diets, vegetarians can maximize the concentration of muscle glycogen which is the main source of energy that athletes use. The greater the muscle glycogen stores, the longer the exercise time to exhaustion. Therefore, vegetarians also have benefits in physical performance. 
	However, there is an opposition against the vegetarian diet. According to Fitday, living a vegetarian lifestyle requires unique nutrition needs. Without meat or animal byproducts, essential vitamins and nutrients can dwindle in the body. Indeed, vegetarians are more likely to suffer deficiency of Calcium, Omega 3, Iron, Zinc and vitamin B12. However, even strict vegetarians can gain enough nutrients if they are more careful about what they eat. ''A vegetarian lifestyle can be a healthy way of life as long as a variety of food is eaten'' Hert, Vegetarian and Health,18. Also, <name> agrees that if vegetarians pay more attention to plan their meals and snacks so as to make sure they get the certain nutrients in their meals, they will be fine. Therefore, though there are potential risks for nutrients deficiency, vegetarians still can get everything they need as long as they pay enough attention to what they eat. 
	Vegetarian diet is good for people's health in three main ways: First, by conducting a vegetarian diet, people can prevent several chronic diseases. Second, vegetarians gain more nutrients from fruits and vegetables. Also, vegetarians do well in physical performance. After considering all these effects above, we can conclude that vegetarian diets are generally good for people's health if they pay attention to gain the balance of nutrients. 
Reference 
Berning, Jacqueline."The Vegetarian Athlete" Nutrient in Sport. Ed. Ronald J. Maughan. IOC Medical Commission. 442-455. Print. 
Hert, Shawn. '' Vegetarian diet and Health''. The University of Memphis, 2010. Print. 
Key, Timothy and Appleby, Paul and Rosell, Magdalena. ''Health Effects of Vegetarian and Vegan Diets''. Cancer Research UK Epidemiology Unit, University of Oxford. Print. 
Overweight and Obesity in the U.S. Food Research & Action Center . February 11,2015. Retrieved from Food Research Action Center Overweight and Obesity in the US Comments. 
Position of the American Dietetic Association: Vegetarian Diets. July 2009. 
Fraser, Gray E. Vegetarian diets: what do we know of their effects on common chronic diseases? 2009. 
