Introduction 
I believe one-child policy in China is known to most of people all over the world, and some people think the policy causes negative impact on the young generation. Since children get all the attention from parents and even grandparents, they tend to be self-centered. They think they are "king" of the world, and everyone should treat them well and obey whatever they think. It's not rare to hear the bad comments about the young generation. This problem bothers me for a long time, and fortunately, I read an article about having siblings. According to the essay, children will become more mature selfless while living with siblings. Recalling my experience of taking care of my cousins, I thought it might be a good way to go, so I started investigating the effects of siblings made on children. 
Becoming more mature and responsible 
As I mentioned before, siblings might be attribute to more mature and caring character of children. A literature I found, written by Toman (1993), approved my assumption. In the book, the author analyzed the relationship between siblings. He stated that after the new baby is born, the older child might be jealous because the parents care about the new baby more. But years later, when he realizes his duty, he starts taking care of his little sibling. He is worried about him, protecting him from being hurt by others, sharing his belongings. Thus he will be more caring, and enhance his leadership when he plays a parental role in his sibling's growth. But in my interview, professor Thomas Berndt threw a question: What if parents don't ask the older child to look after the younger child? He will lose the chance to act as a parent to take the control of his little sibling. In addition, it's parents that are the most mature people for children. And the impact they make on children is much deeper and more influential than that made by siblings. So to be mature, children should learn more from their parents instead of children. 
A model to learn 
As the author, Toman(1993), mentioned, younger children consider his older sibling as the fine example to imitate. They try to be as good as or even better than their older siblings. Professor Thomas talked about that, too. "As human's nature, people are influenced by what others do." So are siblings. If one child is prized by good behavior and punished by inappropriate manner, the other child has a great example to follow. However, if one child is an abuse of alcohol, the other child might be an alcoholic. So, what influence siblings make on children really depends on the sibling. 
Social skills 
Besides the book, I read two experiment reports about the effects of siblings. Lawson, D., & Mace, R.(2010) found out that children with siblings meet less social problems due to the fact that they have more opportunities to interact with siblings and improve their social skills through the process. What Mcalister, A., & Peterson, C.(2013) found was quite similar. Because children growing up with siblings have more chances to talk to peers, they can better understand what others think and how they feel. However, in the interview, professor Thomas thought in a different way. According to professor Thomas, the best language teacher is mother, not siblings. Mother uses a "special simplifies language" which is easy and helpful for children to develop language skills. Besides, in America, for example, there is complete and organized child care. Children have abundant time hanging out with peers, talking with them, so they could gain some tips about socializing. And what can't be neglected is that children today live separately at different rooms at certain age, so it's possible that children spend less time with their siblings than with their friends. 
Conclusion 
Siblings do have positive influence on children, such as making people selfless, responsible and caring, but it doesn't apply to all the children. What effects siblings make on children relies on how the siblings behave and what parents ask them to do. In some cases, siblings, friends and parents are alternative. Children can learn the same thing from friends and parents as what they gain from siblings. So in a word, as professor Thomas said, "human don't need anyone to develop personality", siblings might help children shape better characters but they are not necessary in children's life. 
Reference 
Toman, W. (1993) Family constellation its effects on personality and social behavior. Chapter Two, 7-30. 
Lawson, D., & Mace, R. Siblings And Childhood Mental Health: Evidence for a later-born advantage. Social Science & Medicine (2010), 2061-2069. 
Mcalister, A., & Peterson, C. Siblings, theory of mind, and executive functioning in children aged 3-6 years: new longitudinal evidence. Child Development, (2013) 1442-1458. 
Thomas B. (2014, October 28), personal communication 
