Eng 106i 
Assignment 4, Draft 1 
4/2/2106 
Tax Reform Plan: Yes or No? 
	Brother Yun, an excited Chinese church leader who was an instrumental leader in the development of church house in China once said, "You don't need miracles in the west. You have insurance." From this adage, it clearly illustrates that in this era of modernization, insurance plays an essential role in our daily life. People are gradually gaining awareness of the importance of insurance and would spend thousands of dollars on various insurance policies annually. As regards of seeking protection, insurance companies also obtain protection from reinsurance companies in order to spread their monetary risk and limit total lost if there is any catastrophic disaster (Merkel, 2008). Recently, President Barack Obama had continued to propose the tax reform plan to domestic insurance and reinsurance companies that form foreign subsidiaries and this proposed plan had eventually stir up a vigorous dispute among the insurance and reinsurance sectors and the government. By speculating the standpoints of both sides, a question arise, should the government implement the tax reform plan? No! It is because the implementation of tax reform plan actually brings negative effect towards the nation and local insurance and reinsurance companies. 
	According to the proposal of President Barack Obama on the implementation of the tax reform plan, he proposed that through this implementation of law, it actually aids in the GDP and revenue growth of the nation. The president projected to generate $411 million in 2017 and foresee to raise $2. 6 trillion in the next 10 years (Kent, 2016). In general, it was indeed a good plan as this tax reform plan will ensure a constructive development for the nation instantaneously, but in the long run, this plan actually generate a negative growth in the overall nation's economy. As regard of the insurance sector, property and casualty insurance do play an essential role of capital investment in the nation's economy and one has to understand that the ultimate user of the insurance service is domestic capital. If the implementation of tax reform plan is successful among the insurance companies, it actually induce a consequential cost in the overall economy. It is undeniable that the implementation of the tax reform plan will raise $710 million in 2016 but this estimation by the Join Committee of Taxation did not include the negative dynamic fluctuation of the lower capital stock and labor productivity. In the long-run, the economy will shirk to a smaller scale as the savers of most of the capital stock of the companies devote their money to the payment of tax (Cole, 2015). The lower capital stock that resulted in the tax payment will result in a lower GDP and revenue for the nation by 3.0%. Below will be the graph of comparison between the initial projected GDP and the new GDP after implement the tax reform plan (Entin, 2015). 
From the chart, it clearly exhibits the negative difference on the nation's GDP after implementing the corporate tax on companies towards the nation in a long-run. Thus, from the evidence above, it is clear that the tax reform plan should be deterred as it is proven to generate negative effect towards the nation's GDP in the long run. 
	Next, it is an undeniable truth that the implementation of the tax reform plan is a fair treatment for all the domestic insurance and reinsurance companies as it will close up the loophole of large-scaled companies from taking advantage of avoiding paying tax by forming foreign subsidiaries as international companies are not subjected to US tax law and these international companies can be excluded from paying tax. From the government's viewpoint, this will create a disparity of profit earning as companies that form foreign subsidiaries can earn enormous profit while avoid paying tax and small scaled companies have to pay tax thus government desired to limit companies from forming foreign subsidiaries (President Obamas, n.d.). But, it is a constructive move for the companies to oppose the proposal of implementation of the tax reform plan as this tax reform plan has violate the rule of obligation of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) of the World Trade Organization (WTO) (Lehmann, 2015). In general, General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) is an agreement that provide a platform of liberalization and transparency for developing country to conduct trading services globally (Chadha, 2001). According to World Trade Organization, cross-border trade is a comprehensive way to increase a nation's earning in the past decade, Guy Karsenty, made a notable remark that the estimation of cross-border trading defined by GATS is $2. 2 trillion. This significant amount of money is about 7.6% of the world GDP and close to one third portion of the total trade in the world (Sauve & Stern, 2000). Without doubt, the statistics and number above showed the weight of global trading in a developing country. However, if the tax reform plan is imposed in the country, it will deliberately affect global trading as domestic insurance and reinsurance companies will definitely reduce the business affiliation with foreign subsidiaries. This indeed violates the obligation of GATS of WTO of promoting cross-border trading in a developing country. This is also an ironic decision as United States was part of the signatory that agreed in adopting international trading in the past decade. This reflects a contrary standpoint of the government in handling cross-border trading (Lehmann, 2015). Therefore, the opposition of the tax reform plan is highly encouraged to prevent the violation of obligation of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) of the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
	Besides that, this enforcement of tax will also affect the burden of the consumer in United States in overall. According to the interview with Professor Jeff Beckley, he did mentioned that the tax reform plan is a constructive plan as companies will absorb most of the drawbacks rather than the consumers as most of the Americans do not own an insurance policy thus the consumer will not be the major victim in this plan (personal communication, February 23, 2016). Contrarily, if this issue is observe in a larger context, it will actually affect the consumer on price of purchasing insurance policy. It is because the enforcement of tax eventually cap the US insurance capacity and increase the premium of the policy. In long run, this plan will results in a difference of $2 billion (initial of $11 billion to $13 billion) for the same coverage of insurance policy (Sanders, 2016). From the facts above, it clearly demonstrates that the tax reform plan should be opposed as it will create unnecessary financial pressure to the consumers. 
	In conclusion, the proposal of tax reform plan towards the domestic insurance and reinsurance companies is labeled as a 'double-edge sword' issue as this implementation has both pros and cons. However, in general, although there is an advantage from this plan, the drawbacks of the plan actually dominates the advantages of this plan. Thus, it is highly recommend that authorities should have more congress and discussion to scrutinize the positive and negative outcome of the enforcement of this plan on individuals, companies and the nation. This evaluation is nevertheless very essential in making the final decision as it will be an impact to the growth and development of the country in long run. 
Reference 
Chadha, R. (2001). GATS and developing countries: A case study in India. Citeseerx, 1-5. Retrieved from http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/ 
Cole, A. (2015, February 18). Incorrectly Defining Business Income: The Proposal to Eliminate the Deductibility of Foreign Reinsurance Premiums. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://taxfoundation.org/article/incorrectly-defining-business-income-proposal-eliminate-deductibility-foreign-reinsurance-premiums 
Entin, S. J. (2015, March 3). A Dynamic Analysis of President Obama's Tax Initiatives. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://taxfoundation.org/article/dynamic-analysis-president-obama-s-tax-initiatives 
Kent, J. (2016, February 10). Obama tax plan targets reinsurers. The Royal Gazette: Bermuda 
		Re-Insurance. Retrieved February 12, 2016, from 
		http://www.royalgazette.com/article/20160210/BUSINESS04/160219998 
Lehmann, R. (2015, May 19). Keep Protectionist Reinsurance Tax Out of Tax Reform. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.insurancejournal.com/blogs/right-street/2015/05/19/368692.htm 
Merkel, S. (2008). What is reinsurance? Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/08/reinsurance.asp 
President Obamas International Tax Reform Proposals. (2009). Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www3.cbiz.com/tofias/page.asp?pid=7797 
Quotes About Insurance. (n.d.). Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/tag/insurance 
Sanders, L. (2016, February 10). Taxpayer advocates and industry to Congress: Oppose the president's proposal to alter reinsurance tax provisions. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.rstreet.org/outreach/taxpayer-advocates-and-industry-to-congress-oppose-the-presidents-proposal-to-alter-reinsurance-tax-provisions/ 
Sauve , P., & Stern, R. M. (2000). GATS 2000: New directions in services trade liberalization. 
1 
Tax Reform Plan: Yes or No? 
