ENGL-106i 
11 December 2015 
East Meets West: Different Prevalence in Chinese Traditional Music and Western Classical Music 
Although musicians' from China try hard to make contribution on Chinese traditional music's promotion domestically and overseas, the lag in prevalence between Chinese traditional music and western classical music is still inevitably remained and is a complicated problem to be concern. For whom those contact with both Chinese traditional music and western classical music can tell authentic feeling and sense better because they access both two music intimately at the first hand and would be so familiar with these. In my personal life, I am a learner of both Chinese traditional zither and piano. So, I am willing to share my own experience in learning western and eastern music. Chinese zither and piano are both the best representatives of Chinese traditional music and western classical music. According to an article "Why Piano-Mania Grips China's Children?" it says China nowadays is experiencing a popular trend that children in China have great passion to learn piano and nearly 40 million Children are the learners of pianos. So do I. Playing piano is really attractive and interesting, appealing me to know more due to wide range and high flexibility of attribution of piano. At the same time, I was so moved and touched by playing the Chinese traditional zither since zither often brings about a distinctive Chinese lingering charm. Take Carmen, a prevalent song worldwide, as an example. For piano version, Carmen seemingly sounds like an outgoing teenager, sharing a joyous and convivial atmosphere. By contrast, for zither version, most audiences can perceive a unique ethnic reception. This problem matters not only due to those people who appreciate it, but also to musicians, sociologist, and students. Given this situation, I was thinking that it is necessary to figure out the discrepancy. 
Although most people think that there is no need for figuring out the discrepancy in popularity, research of it could bring about practical benefits to society, such as encouraging the inheritance of music, promoting the development of culture, and reflecting the societal problems. Considering the difference in prevalence between Chinese traditional music and western classical music, I argue that these two genres' musical attribution, musicians' efforts, and historical and cultural background result in this gap. 
1. Historical and Cultural Background 
Most people may have preconceptions and bias about the definition of Chinese traditional music and western classical music. For example, they often refer Chinese traditional music is a musical form performed by Han people using ancient instruments. In fact, Chinese traditional music is divided into five categories that incorporate various expressing methods: folk song ballad, national instrumental music, folk art forms and local opera music. Take many factors into consideration, for instance, their historical origin, both Chinese traditional music and western classical music have long past records. Chinese traditional music has over 2500-year history. At its height of power and splendors, Chinese traditional music gets at the most prosperous time period during Tang Dynasty that disseminates Chinese traditional culture at most. Also, most people believe that western classical music is Middle Age music, like some elevator music we heard today. Normally, western classical music is mainly concerning religious music and secular music, applying to rituals and celebrations, originating from western society for over hundreds decades. I bet that most people have heard Mozart, Beethoven and Chopin those who made enormous contribution and left so many masterpieces to western classical music. However, few people could really describe these maestros' contributions to western classical music. Western classical music can be traced back to Medieval and Renaissance time, dividing into three main periods: early period, common practice period and contemporary period. It has pretty important status in western society. At present, it usually indicates music played in an orchestra, or a band, piano, organ, or solo orchestral instrument. 	 
While I was doing this research, I found out that the case study of opera is a good example to reflect their difference because both Chinese traditional music and western classical music have opera tradition. Both Chinese opera and western drama are the products of history and culture, reflecting on the change and development of Chinese traditional music and western classical music. The origin of Chinese opera can retrospect Yuan Dynasty, about eight hundred years, gathering diversely local operas. Chinese opera focuses on mirroring the public daily life and society's criticisms. The western dramas can be retrospect in Ancient Greece Time, around 6th Century B.C, mainly performing for the purpose of sacrificed and sacred rituals. In this case, we can see that both western music and eastern music share a common method to express their musical desire and normal life. 
Thanks to the opera's case study offering us a good start to analyze. First of all, the discrepant popularity is resulting from Chinese and western historical and cultural background. Under the control of imperialism, western countries and societies experienced several colonial wars, which preceded a mass of culture export. Not only did First and Second Opium War in China cause China starting foreign trade with European countries, but also provided opportunities for western invaders to make cultural export-found media industry, spread religion propaganda, etc. During the Qing Dynasty, the government decided to cut off China from the outside world. In this case, firms had limited trading resources; people in China lost their connection to communicate with foreign countries; and technology and communicative mechanisms lagged behind western countries a lot. Under this situation, it's not hard to imagine the difficulty to develop and promote Chinese traditional music inside and outside China. Meanwhile, the processing attitude of both Chinese people and western people toward musical innovation are really different. For western society, during the Renaissance, people in Europe were willing to accept new things and they advocated of innovation. So, western music is just like a jade, getting polished constantly, and finally becomes an ideal one. For Chinese society, with the effect of Confucianism, people in China tended to be conservative and scholasticism. This is because what Confucianism advocates of, not pursuing change frequently but just focusing on own and keeping the old styles. 
2. The Stories On Stages and Behind the Stages: Musical Attribution and Promoting Efforts 
The difference between Chinese traditional music and western classical music is shown in its characteristics, performing features and emotional expressions. Take the case study of opera I did as an instance. As being presented in the report named "Zhang Huoding Makes American Debut in Two Operas", "Chinese opera, which differs greatly from the Western mode, is the basic theatrical form in China, a catchall typically including not only vocal and instrumental performance and acting but also mime, speech (often melodiously heightened), thoroughgoing choreography and acrobatics" (Oestreich). Besides, Chinese opera likes applying various instruments. According to George Loomis in "East Meets West at Macao Musical Festival", the traditional Chinese performing band prefers to use instruments combining with some western instruments among them. Also, while performing, traditional Chinese string instruments, like guzhengs and erhus, are good at using treble range to express feelings as well as cellos and double basses do. 
Different musical characteristics bring about different feelings to audiences. Through the case study of opera, I found out western classical music brings about a unique feeling. "Johnson is not averse to saying that classical music is redemptive. Listened to closely, its form gives us an ideal vision of what we may be" (Lawrence, 14). Personally, I hardly ever hear that classical music conveys a redemptive perception. However, over time, people's cognitions and attitudes are varying with the expressive force of music. My attitude toward classical music is renewed and I started to recall the different feeling and effect between classical music and Chinese traditional music. This variation could also produce the discrepancy in popularity because there is no doubt that people would get more passion about the music they are enjoyed. 
Furthermore, the reason that results in different prevalence includes two-group musicians' efforts in promotion. The promotion of Chinese traditional music reflects on domestic and overseas promotion. Grace Liu is a suitable example to illustrate musicians' contribution. According to Rees in Lives in Chinese Music, Grace Liu took part in multiculturalism activities in England as a way to call out attention of Cantonese Opera and Chinese music culture, utilizing her expertise and ability to exceed ethnic diversity. For domestic promotion, Mainland China applies many methods from western society. In Creative Arts in Education and Culture, Yanyi Yang talks about current situation of governments' requirements and efforts in promoting Chinese traditional music, which inspired by western multicultural education much. Radically, western musicians' approach on promoting classical music is teaching. "Significantly, the most common role for musicians is teaching, and very few musicians practice solely in performance"(Bennett, 101). This is a renewed idea to be concerned. 
3. Discrepancy and Practical Effects 
Time goes by, eastern and western music have been giving rise to more practical effects to society. Traced back to 19th century, Chinese opera's has strong influence on pop culture, reflecting on Kung Fu movies, TV shows and journals. As evidence, with increasingly China's improvement, Kung Fu movies are promoted well around the world because foreign people would firstly react Kung Fu movies when asked to talk about Chinese movies. For example, most people are familiar with Bruce Lee and are impressed by his Kung Fu movies. Also, in recent years, Kung Fu movies are promoted well in cartoon version over the world, such as Kung Fu Panda. While there's no conversation in the movie, we can hear that various songs inserted with Chinese traditional instruments, expressing the emotion and pushing up story line. In fact, the Kung Fu movie music is mainly created on the basis of Chinese traditional music and uses some present technology to adopt nowadays appreciation standard. What disappointed me is that Kung Fu movie succeeds on expanding globally whereas Chinese traditional music does not. So, if Chinese traditional music could learn the successful experience from Kung Fu music, it would give people a further insight of eastern music. 
Moreover, western classical music has strong impact on the daily basis beyond imaginary. The article I read from How to Hear Classical Music written by Davinia Caddy has shown that classical music, in fact, can help spread pleasure and joy because some hormones are going to be worked and affect other parts of body when hearing it. To be simple, classical music is a "happiness project" for people. Unexpectedly, western classical music has such realistic function that actually suggests and guides people implicitly to listen to it more. In addition, as a matter of fact, the reason classical music so successfully promoted is based on different cultural background. According to another article I read Musical Values from Who Needs Classical Music?: Cultural Choice and Musical Value written by Johnson Julian, the good publicity of western classical music is due to "transcendence of such worldly difference" that depicts that without comparison of other music, western classical music is hardly to keep this steady status in the music world. 
For Chinese traditional music, there is still space to progress and to catch up classical music though nowadays prevalence is limited. That I would like to suggest is changing attitudes and ways towards appreciating these two genres. Because long-term obstinate perspective would result in problematic outcome, so if people could convert a way to understand and appreciate music, Chinese traditional music and western classical music may get a balanced level. At first glances, students and musicians might say we do not need to alter anything because sometimes the change is not always beneficial and positive. However, this issue needs to call attention because this discovery will have significant applications in pushing art appreciation as well as in progressing cultural outcomes, including communicating with foreign countries and truly breaking the misconceptions of conventional products. 
