4 December 2015 
How to Face Obesity toward College Students? 
"You look totally different!" It is familiar to hear these words in college period. It is true because studying until midnight and joining the party in their free time forms some students' college lives. For students, keeping as slim as before is hard especially under high study pressure, lack of exercise, and unhealthy eating habits in their lives. As long as this state is going on, the obesity problem would occur naturally. To be honest, nowadays, college student obesity is regarded as a public health crisis in the United States. According to the government report, one in three American college students is overweight or obese, putting them at a higher risk of developing diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and other illnesses (NHIS). To face this problem, we need to deeply research college obesity. From my study, I think unhealthy college lifestyle is the main reason for obesity. Some students' daily schedules are consistently changing. Lack of sleep, little physical exercise, poor nutrition or abuse alcohol, are all bad lifestyle factors, which not only influence the weight of college students but also impact the healthy condition of body operation. Therefore, to control and prevent obesity in students, college management needs to focus on requiring physical education and managing nutrition for students. 
It is not doubtful to say that many factors influence body weight. But for college students, the three main causes of college students' obesity are lack of sleep, poor diet and lack of physical exercise. The first factor to cause college obesity is lack of sleep. From the article of The New York Times, it was clearly shown that when people were starved of sleep, their brain would stimulate the eating response toward high-calories foods (Connor 1). When people get impropriate sleep, fattening foods like French fires and pizza have a sharp reaction at the part of brain to govern eat. That is why college students eat much more junk food when they stay up late. College students have pulled all-nighters cramming for exams, accompanied by greasy Chinese takeout, soda, and chips, and have the directly experienced that how many pounds will be added by the junk foods. Sadly, according to the academic article, sleep deprivation and irregular sleep schedules are highly prevalent among college students (Hershner 7). Most students have dark circles under the eyes and hourly coffee runs experiences at the same time. With their schedule, it is hard to get more than six hours sleep each night during the school week. So it is easy to understand why "freshman 15" haunting big amount of college students. 
The second factor to causing college students obesity is unbalanced nutrition diets. It is not rare to hear the complain from students about the food in the college dinning hall because it has too much meat, cheese and pizza and less choice of vegetables and fruit in there. Obviously, all of these foods are high calories and less nutritious. In addition, in the report of a Japanese institution, the researchers surveyed 738 college students. They found that a high percentage of their surveyed students were overweight and engaged in less than healthy dietary habits, such as low fruit and vegetable intake or low fiber intake, suggesting the need for greater attention to diet interventions in this population. (Huang 2). 
Moreover, alcohol abuse also affects the weight of college students. One 12-ounce standard beer contains about 160 calories while a glass of white wine can have as much as 300 calories. At the same times, alcohol also has a huge effect in confusing the food choices mind of people (Brondel 3). For students, especially at late night parties, most of foods tend to be poor in nutrition if they are drunk, there would not be aware of the quality of food that they are eating. Besides, wine includes high calories. If students consume alcoholic drinks per week on top of their regular diet it can quickly put them on the path to obesity. Therefore, being smart with what drink and eat to maintain balanced social and health lifestyles, students should reduce the alcohol drinking that can develop into new world for the long term healthy body form. 
The final factor is lack of physical exercise. Nowadays, people are less active than they were decades ago just because of economic growth, technological advancements and social change. For college students, they always have different excuses to push aside opportunities to exercise. Like the transportation to go to class, about 40 percent of U.S. college students walk or rode their bikes to school in 1969; by 2001, only 12 percent did so (Brownson, 85). Therefore, physical exercise and balanced diets are especially important to keep in healthy weight. Establishing a plan that incorporates physical activity into their daily schedule, students will become different in the next year. 
Obesity is linked with a large number of health conditions. One of the bad effects toward the obesity of college students are perennial eating disorders and diabetes. [name], a doctor working at [hospital], is good at treating students' obesity. She said the worst effect of binge eating disorder is patients cannot stop to eat. Through a long time struggle with overeating, the patients will feel shame and worry and finally lose their confidence of thir ability to control eating control ability to overeating over a long period. Their mental abilities are also affected. According to the research made by the health services center of Rutgers, three quarters or more incarcerated persons were overweight or obese at the same times, most of them have different extents metal illness (Nancy,14) Another effect of obesity is diabetes. [name] also mentioned that there are several factors that can increase the risk of diabetes including being overweight or obese especially if students carry extra weight in the belly, Doing a little physical exercise in the daily life and smoking too much. All of these factors will increasing the chance of acquiring diabetes. ([name] 5) For college students, it is very common to see students to abuse cigarettes because of high study pressure or because of the far distance to go gym, parts of college students give up to go to gym to do exercise. So that would be very dangerous for college students to get diabetes. Just due to the sudden change of body weight, the internal organs and physical function would engender strong impact and reduce drowsiness and vertigo. 
In the long turn, college student obesity would broad swath of harms that has a huge societal effect haunting the government. Over a period of 30 years, the prevalence of obesity among students in the U.S. has increased substantially. In 1985 a random sampling of students who were asked their heights and weights found no states with as many as 15% of respondents obese; in 2/3 of states studied less than 10% of the population were obese. In 2002 just 17 years later, no states remained which less than 15% of the population was obese. (Nigel,1) It is because toxic food environment influence what college student eat makes it far hard to choose healthy food and easy to go on the obesity road. More seriously, health care costs for obesity in United States are nearly $120 billion annually or about 7% of total health care costs. One half of all obesity health care costs are underwritten by Medicaid and Medicare. And government has reported that obesity is close to overtaking smoking as the number of cause of death in the U.S. Therefore, college students' obesity is a big issue that should be focused by individual and government. 
It is never too early to start preventing obesity. Therefore, how to prevent obesity for the individual and college management. For students, doing physical exercise and easting nutritious food in every in the meal. Therefore, to do proper physical exercise and intake proper amount of nutrition is necessary for college students to keep healthy and far from obesity. Secondly, keep a good sleep habits and improve your sleep quality. There are several tips to help with that: close the windows and keep them far from your bed. Stick to a regular sleep schedule. Keep away from too much foods intake near sleep time. Eat breakfast and choose small portions and eat slowly. Finally, give up alcohol. Finally, give up alcohol. This action always can make people free to think and work. 
For the management of college, their action is more efficient than individual's, because the policy of school can force intervention to prevent obesity. Requiring students to have health and physical education. Because through this way, students can much easier to understand physical exercise can reduce caloric intake in their daily life. In addition, improving the menu of the dining hall to include more vegetables and fruits is a particularly a good point to improve and is much healthier for students to eat. Changing the type food from the vending machines can help students receive necessary nutrients at any times. Finally, the school manager should update the gym equipment regularly to attract more students to exercise. 
Forming a healthy lifestyle and rating the activity in the daily time to know some actives that risking the health is not only puts students' current self at dangerous situation but also their future would also influence by the action. Like, in the short term, internal organs and physical function would engender strong impact and reduce drowsiness and vertigo by the student's obesity but in the long term, the obesity might induce aggressive prostate cancer and serious mental problem. Therefore, thinking about long-term healthy life when do anything before, students will far from the college obesity in the college period. 
