11/21 
Parents should back to their children in village 
With rapid economic development in past two decades in China, the number of migrations from rural areas to cities increased significantly. Under this kind of situation, a group of children are left behind in villages for the reason that their parents cannot raise them under expensive consumption in urban areas. "Left behind children " give rise to plenty of attention from society in recent years. A great number of news about these poor children's tragedy is covered on public media that include but not limited to autism, suicide, abuse and juvenile delinquency. Although society and government tried plenty of ways to help these children, they only can improve living condition but can't alleviate depression and lonely childhood. Therefore, the best way for solving left-behind children's problem is encouraging parents move back to village and accompany by their children's side. 
Nevertheless, some people disagree and they think other relative could substitute for parents' care. In fact, lots of tragedy happened on left-behind children under the abuse of relative who "take care of" children in village. Here is an astounding example of maltreatment on left-behind children. A 12 years old boy was reported that all rescue measure proved ineffectual in hospital with many trauma and beat trace all over the body. According to the autopsy report, the death was caused by innutrition and being out of energy. After the investigation of police, the truth came out. The poor boy lived with his grandma in village since his parents left to cities. His grandma has abused him for a long time. She didn't give food to him even torture the boy with violence. Without parents, he was so helpless and don't know how to protect himself. Ncnews, 2015 There are too many tragedies like this example. Nobody can make sure whether left-behind children are treated well from relatives, so parents should better back to village and take care of their children by themselves to prevent these abuse happened over and over again. 
Meanwhile, return to village could also develop economic in rural area. Most of adults who migrate from village to city are struggling in low salary. Under the circumstance of highly needs of parents' love of left-behind children, it is not worth to be far away from family and get such low wage. City developed a lot with the large amount of productivity from rural area. On the contrary, since most of adults leave the village, the fields and farm and charged by old people who are not in good health condition and production efficiency. If adults stay in village and focus on building up hometown, they don't have reason leave their children any more. According to data from China-news, the average income of people in village of China has risen to 8896 CYN with the increasing rate of 2.3%. 2014 It is not hard to see the villages have much more space to develop, adults definitely could make more wealth in rural areas prepared to the low-salary and high-put work in city. Backing to village in absolutely a good choice for not only mental health of children but also financial well being of whole family. 
However, the strong argument against the opinion above is that the decrease number of migration to city will obstruct the progress of city economic. The truth is, the huge number of population from rural areas causes a great number of people in city lost their jobs. In other words, the explosive growth of population in rural area overwhelms the capacity in living space and job space especially in. Because the source in cities is limited, the oversize of population would squeeze it out, which means, the return of adults from village would not prohibit improvement of city but alleviate employ saturation. 
In conclusion, on the one side, the return of parents will solve a large number of problems on left-behind children. Poverty can't be the excuse of abandon since every child deserved parents' love and cares. On the other side, village would get huge development if adult come back work in farm. I highly suggest government improve some policy encourage population back to village and assign more social support on building up economic in rural area. 
