P5D3 Independent Travel Is Benefit For People 
April 27, 2015 
Independent Travel Is Benefit For People 
Most people suffer a lot of stress from work and study in their daily lives. Hence, many of them have the tendency to pursue freedom and get rid of the troubles to let their body and mind have a rest. Independent travel seems like a good way which can satisfy people's needs by putting some excitement and giving them enough freedom to enjoy the nature and feel the world. Therefore, people should choose independent travel to release pressure and color their lives. 
One of the reasons why independent travel is a suitable way to help people is that it brings a lot of excitement to people's daily lives. Most people might have the feeling of unfulfilled and disappointed toward their lives. Independent travel, a type of travel which requires people have the abilities of planning, scheduling, and handling with all kinds of things, is an effective way to color their lives. It's definitely not an easy work, however, this is exactly why it is excited. Stay in another country, people would enjoy the different culture and concentrate on those unfamiliar and interesting things. Besides, exploring the unknown world and having an adventure can stimulate people's curiosity and thus could help them forget the unhappy things and troubles for the moment, (Lin, 2015). Unexpectedness and freshness have big effect on boosting people's moods, thus also affect their bodies. It might help to get depressed mood release during travel and leave people feeling light and relaxed unconsciously. Therefore, independent travel seems like the best way for people to improve their lives. 
Travel independently, people are free to do anything they want without considering others. Most people plays a lot of roles in their lives. They have to take care of their children and parents, and deal with their work at the same time to support their families. Those roles make them have to take a lot of responsibilities which would bring them pressures and stresses. Traveling independently, no one knows them and no one could bother them. So they can unload all the pressures and put all the things, all the troubles from work and family behind them. Just focus on present and truly be themselves, (Kristina, 2011). Sometimes, it is easier to talk with strangers about the true feeling, because there is no relationship between them and thus people do not need to worry about the consequence for their words. Simply sharing your feelings face to face with another person can help relieve some stress, (Jeanne, 2015). 
Nature is fuel for the soul. Sitting on chairs and working with computers on the office from day to night would damage people's health both mentally and physically. Working long time with computers might impair people's eyesight, also, computer radiation is harmful for health, (Orlin, 2012). It would be better if people can go outside and enjoy the beauty of nature, take a breath of fresh air, to stretch, to get natural light into their computer-strained eyes. Besides, busy on handling with a lot of works and dealing with all kinds of personal relationships makes people suffer a lot pressures. New research from the Netherlands shows that people who live near a park or wooded area experience less depression and anxiety, and a study from the UK found that a walk in the country reduces depression in 71 percent of participants. Being connected to the nature helps take away depression and other negative emotions, bringing people more happiness that will carry them every day of their life, (Borboa, 2011). Moreover, people who live close to nature have a much higher chance of being active outside, moving around and exercising, which are beneficial for people's health. 
