17, April 2016: 
Do family background and living environment really matter for children's academic performances at school? 
I once watched one of the James Paul Gee's videos in You Tube. In the beginning of the video, he mentions several questions which attract my interest. He asks that "What features at home correlated with success? What's the most important things that kid does at home?" From his perspective, family factors are correlated with how successfully children will be in the first grade. In general, family factors refer to living environment and family background. Living environment means whether children come from rich or poor families. Family backgrounds means parents' educational degree and parents' marriage conditions. However, some people do believe that children's academic performances are none of parents and families business. Also, they believe it is school's responsibility to educate children. Therefore, do family background and living environment really matter for children's academic performances at school? In this argument paper, I would argue these several topics: whether parents' educational degree has a deep impact for their children's study? Does parents' income play an important role in children's academic performances? and what's the relationship between parents' marriage conditions and children's educational performances in schools? 
First of all, it is true that children's academic performances mostly depend on their own features. For example, based on different kinds of personalities, some children genetically would like to sit in front of desks to study quietly. Other children, who have a naughty personality, prefer to play outside and do not be willing to study. Then people will conclude that children's academic performances at school just depend on themselves rather than their parents. However, as far as I am concerned, there are some relationships between parents' educational degree and children's academic performances. In other words, parents' educational degree affects their children's academic performances. According to the article titled "The Influence of Parent Education and Family Income on Child Achievement: The Indirect Role of Parental Expectations and the Home Environment. Pamela.", the author, Davis Kean, conclude that most children who have parents with high school diploma won't have better academic performance than children who have parents with 2 years' college degree. However, children who have 2 years' college degree parents perform worse behaviors on math and reading than those who have 4 years' college degree parents. The author reaches this conclusion by doing an experiment. In the experiment, the subjects of this experiment are different educational degree parents and their children. A statistic chart is contained in the article. From it, I can see M meaning means, SD means standard deviation. But what is standard deviation? Wikipedia tells me that "Standard deviation is a measurement which is used to quantify the distance from the mean of the group. A high standard deviation indicated the data points are spread out over a wider range of values." Thus, from this resource, I can conclude that parents' educational degree has somewhat influence for their children's academic study. I personally think there are some factors contributing to this fact. The most apparent factor is that higher educational parents usually have high demand and expectation for their children. They always supervise their children's academic study in daily life. Therefore, with more involvement of their parents, children will find it hard to get worse grades. From this resource, I can conclude that parents' educational degree really plays an important role in children's education. Children who come from high educational degree families tend to have better performances at school. 
Second, some people agree that parents' income do not play a main part of children's academic performances in school. Admittedly, according to the article, "Child Poverty Can Be Reduced" written by Robert D. Plotnick, until recently, there are lots of foundations or financial aid to poor families to help their children get educated. For example, Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) were the main government assistance programs for low-income families with children. what is the most encouraging antipoverty policy being that federal tax burden has been decreased in recent years. It is true that poor families can get more help from those foundations. They even can equally sit in the same classrooms as rich children. But the point is their children won't have much extra opportunities to gain after-class education. According to the article, "Basic Facts About Low-income Children" written by Sophia Addy, Will Engelhardt, and Curtis Skinner, there are more than 72 million children under 18 years old in the United States. 45 percent of them live in low-income families and 22 percent of them live in poor families. Since their parents are busy with working to earn more money, their academic studies are nearly not cared by their parents. In addition, their parents won't have enough money on extra study activities, such as after-class tutoring, standard test coaching and academic study materials purchases. However, I know it is unfair but I still agree that rich children are more likely to have better academic performances at school. According to the article "Why rich kids become rich adults and poor kids become poor adults? "by Maya Wesby, children with high-income parents have easy access to luxurious resources. For example, they parents are willing to invest money on their after-class tutoring, standard test and even their parents will provide children with rare sources such as study with prestigious professors or participate in meaningful curricular activities. In addition, since most of rich children live in rich communities, the environment set them up with an advantage compared with poor children. So I still agree that family income is another important factor influencing children's academic performances at school. 
Third, there is a common opinion that it is schools' responsibilities to educate children, and their parents' responsibilities are to provide enough money and comfortable houses. However, from my own perspective, they just ignore another vital factor-parents' marriage conditions. I once read an article called "Long-Term Effects of Parental Divorce on Parent-Child Relationships, Adjustment, and Achievement in Young Adulthood." The researchers do an experiment whose subjects are divorced parents, single mother or father, complete and happy family's parents. After analyzing the data, the author found that children are more likely to perform better at school if they are from a complete and happy family. That's because usually those happy children have more conversations with their parents in daily life. They know how to deal with the pressure from study and how to release pressure by talking to their parents. However, children from single or divorced families won't have too much conversations with their parents. Not only because their parents are busy with working, but also the incompleteness of their families leave psychological hurts in their heart. Therefore, that's why from the author's data, I can conclude children with two parents have less study issues at school compared with children with single parent. So people shouldn't always pass the buck of educating children to school because parents' marriage conditions, to some extent, impact their children. 
In conclusion, it is not wrong for some people to believe that parents and family environment are not the main characteristics of influencing children's academic performances at school. But I still hold the opinion that family background and living environment really matter for children's academic performances at school. First of all, parents with high educational degree automatically get more involved in children's study. Second, high income family will provide their children with luxurious resources. Third, parents' marriage condition deeply influences not their children's academic studies but their children psychological health as well. For my future study, I think I need to explore some other factors that may influence students' academic performances at school, like nationality, ethnic characteristic and culture factors. 
