Learning to have an appropriate diet and physical activity sets up future's health 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY 
April 30th, 2015 
Why do people attend college? Normally, the purpose of attending college is for learning more knowledge to get a job after graduation, and cultivating more friends to enlarge their social circle. However, often ignored is that universities have responsibilities to educate students how to have appropriate diets and optimal physical activities schedules to keep a healthy lifestyle and maintain Body Mass Index (BMI). When it comes to health, being overweight, people are more likely to suffer from some serious heart diseases and cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, learning to have sufficient physical activities and appropriate diets in college is critical for students to keep optimal BMI and a high quality of life. 
Weight especially for college students cannot indicate whether they have perfect diets and sufficient physical activities schedules or not. According to the demographic data provided by Lynn (2012), 19 and 20 year-olds are at the highest percentage of over-weight, which demonstrates that freshman in college gain a lot of weight. Additionally, Berenson (2011) stated that during the transition from childhood to young adulthood, changes in diet have been documented which show a decrease in quality and consumption of nutrient-dense foods. When students attend college, they leave the control of their parents and to be independent and self-discovery, forming their future life habits including dietary patterns and physical activity schedules. When they are in high school or even younger, they can barely choose food, since their mothers cook for their children. This situation changes, when students get into college. Lynn (2012, 32) "Fast food consumption is high in college students with 32% of students reporting they eat fast food often, 42% sometimes, and only 27% eating fast food rarely or never". 1 Even with many food options, 76% of college students reported that they ate the same types of foods every day. Lynn (2012) commented that only 8.5% of college students were found to consume the recommended amount of fruits and vegetables. Furthermore, sugar-sweetened beverages often contain high amounts of calories and are popular drinks in college. According to the data collected by Smith West. D et al (2000), 65% of undergraduate students reported consuming sugar-sweetened beverages instead of milk every day, including soda, fruit drinks, energy drinks, sport drinks and sweet tea. 
Whether people will be over-weight or not depends on not solely their diet, but also their age. At the time of high school, they are just going through transitions from their adolescence and adulthood and they need adequate fat to build their body. In this situation, they will not get overweight. However, once getting into adulthood and if continuing to absorb lots of food with high fat, students start to accumulate fat, which eventually results in overweight. Similarly, Dr. Jeffrey Jensen Arnett (2012) classifies the ages of 18-25 as "emerging adulthood", and during this period as a time where young people transition from adolescence to adulthood, people begin developing views and behaviors, which will carry into adulthood. Thus diets and physical activity schedules developed in college hugely and lastingly impact future health. 
It is true that paying attention to diet and physical activities makes students spend less time on socializing. However, doing physical activities or studying how to make an effective diet plan in college is one of ways to broaden people's social circles. Additionally, they might be able to realize some amazing methods to lose weight by cooperation. However, some people still do not think doing physical activities together is as effective as their own way to socialize. Those people need to realize that being overweight has been associated with an increased risk of the development of hypertension, dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, and cancer, specifically colon, breast, endometrial, and gallbladder cancers(2000). Since people have to face so many potential disease in the future, it is more probable that they even spend much more time on that, which lead to having to follow a stricter plan and combine exercise and medicine together to lose weight and keep health. In either way, you have to follow eating plans and exercise plans. Why not just follow plans as early as possible to avoid those disgusting medicine? 
Moreover, people should not be deceived by their eyes. Nelson (2008) stated that rates of overweight and obesity have been found to be near 40% in college students, however only 51% believed they were overweight, which means that overweight college students may not be aware of the increased health risk associated with overweight. Therefore, they need to pay more attention is that they need to compare their plans with some standard plans offered by official department, practice plans and perfect their plans. At the point, universities have to take responsibilities, not only make students aware that they are over-weight, but also set up goals that combined with knowledge of college students' weight status can aid college of nutrition department and sports department to develop appropriate nutrition and physical activity education to fit the needs of college students (2008). Following the suggestion provided by American College Health Association and universities, students are able to not solely lower or maintain their BMI in college life, but also be healthy for their whole life. 
Reference 
Bish, C., Blanck, H., Serdula, M., Marcus, M., Kohl, H., & Khan, L. (2012). Diet and Physical Activity Behaviors among Americans Trying to Lose Weight: 2000 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System**. Obesity, 13(3), 596-607. Doi: 10.1038/oby.2005. 64 
Brunt, A., Rhee, Y., & Zhong, L. (2008). Differences in Dietary Patterns Among College Students According to Body Mass Index. Journal of American College Health, 56(6), 629-634. Doi : 10.3200/JACH.56.6.629-634 
Lowry, R., Galuska, D., Fulton, J., Wechsler, H., Kann, L., & Collins, J. (2000). Physical activity, food choice, and weight management goals and practices among U.S. college students. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 18(1), 18-27. Doi: 10.1016/S0749-3797(99)00107-5 
Demory-Luce D, Morales M, Nicklas T, Baranowski T, Zakeri I, Berenson G. (2011) Changes in food group consumption patterns from childhood to young adulthood: The Bogalusa heart study. J Am Diet Assoc. 2004;104(11):1684-1691. 
Running head: LEARNING TO HAVE AN APPROPRIATE DIET AND PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES SETS UP FOR FUTURE'S HEALTH 
3 
