Synthesis Paper 
April 16, 2016 
2008 Financial Crisis: An Invisible Hand Pushing Chinse Film Industry 
According to statistics published by National Bureau of Statistics of China NBSC, the GDP of China dropped to 6.9% in 2015, which is the lowest level since 1990. On the contrast, Chinese film industry was unprecedentedly blooming. Chinese domestic box office achieved a new highest record of 44 billion RMB in 2015, which surpasses the old record of 29. 7 billion RMB gained in 2014 more than 14 billion RMB NBSC. There are many explanations for the historical development of Chinese film industry. Some people simply attribute the miracle to the increase of Chinese economy. However, if the conclusion was correct, why was the Chinese films in a prolonged depression until recent years while the Chinese economy increased with an amazing speed since reform and opening? In fact, Chinse film industry have been developing since the beginning of this century; however, the grow speed was relatively slow until 2009. Considering what happened around 2009, an interesting finding emerged: the 2008 global financial crisis actually promoted Chinese film industry. 
Figure 1. The total box office in China mainland 2005 - 2014, NBSC 
It shows that Chinese domestic box office has been increasing. It's also noticeable that the amount increased from 2005 to 2009 41. 6 million is literally equal to the amount increased from 2009 to 2010 39. 66 million. 
In 2008, a financial crisis broke out from the U.S and swept across the world. China, the largest developing country at that time, was undoubtedly drawn into it. By that time, the China was known as world's factory; Chinese economy was largely relying on exporting. The sharply shrinking external demand might cause thousands and thousands of manufacturers shut down and millions and millions of people lose their jobs, which would be an unimaginable disaster for a country with 13 billion people. In order to create the domestic demand, the Chinese central government decided to stimulate the economy by invest 4 trillion RMB on the infrastructure construction. It directly speeded up the process of urbanization and activated the real-estate industry, including both the residential and commercial real estate. More and more housing and mall sprang up on over the whole country, and a theatre usually is an indispensable part of a mall, so that we can see the number of screens and theatres started to increase drastically since 2009. From Figure 2, we can see that, from 2005 to 2009, the number of theatres and screens increased by 444; however, from 2009 to 2010, it increased by 333 within just one year. Even more crazily, the number increased by 800 from 2010 to 2011. 
Figure 2. The number of theatres in China mainland 2005 - 2014. Chinese Industry Information Website, September 2, 2015 
Figure 3. The number of screens in China mainland 2005 - 2014. Chinese Industry Information Website. September 2, 2015 
Due to blindly expansion of many Chinese manufacturers stimulated by the government policy, the overcapacity in almost the whole secondary industry gradually became a severe sequelae. In another word, the capacity far exceeded the demand of the market when the high tide of construction receded. There was no more domestic space to digest all the extra capacity, so that the recession of the Chinese GDP was expected. In such condition, China was eager to find new engines for the economy; the capitals were thirsty to find another area to make profits. They all spontaneously look to the tertiary industry. Since the number of theatres had been increasing and a large amount of movie-goers had been cultivated, movies were hungrily demanded. As a result, more and more investment flew into the movie production. Many non-professional but influential people, such as Han Han and Guo Jingming, two famous writers in China, even tried to take a share of the profits and they actually made it. 
Someone may argue that the urbanization was inevitable, so the number of theatres and screens would definitely increase no matter the financial crisis happened or not. I partially agree with the opinion. However, the urbanization in China started since last century, why did the number of theatre and screens increase so slow until recently? Even though the two numbers kept increasing since 2005, the speed was relatively slow until 2009. If we pay attention to the time when the financial crisis and the real-estate industry and movies industry started to boom, we will see they are amazingly coincident. It's hard to deny that the construction of commercial estate, where theatres usually attached to, was speeded up by the 4 trillion policy. Considering the cause of the 4 trillion policy, we can hardly deny that the financial crisis in fact is inextricably linked with the development Chinese film industry. 
Figure 3. The number of feature films produced in China mainland 2007 - 2012. NBSC. It clearly shows that 2009 is a turning point when the production of films started to boom. 
In summary, we can attribute the development of Chinse film industry to two main factors: construction of theatres and explosion of content, and both of these two factors were actually promoted by 2008 financial crisis. On the one hand, the 4 trillion policy caused by the financial crisis activated the commercial real-estate industry, which then accelerated the construction of theatres and screens. On the other hand, with the overcapacity on the secondary industry resulted by the 4 trillion stimulation, thirsty capitals flew into the tertiary industry. Besides, the growing theatres and screens made a strong demand of movies, more and more investment flew into movies production. As a result, the production of movies exploded. Based on all of these, it's reasonable to conclude that the 2008 financial crisis is highly related the development of Chinese film industry. 
