Engl-10600-i75 
P5D3 
4/19/16 
Amplify the Voice of Anti-Bullying 
Bullying is constantly and increasingly threating the safety of our youths. Over the past 20 years, the dramatic expansion of electronic technology and increasing complexity of teenagers' emotion gave rise to new types and higher prevalence of school bullying. Sometimes, teasing and roughhousing are not just innocuous and na ve behaviors even if these happen to kids; generating health problems and emotional damages, destroying one's self-esteem and identity, bullying has devastating negative effects on victims, especially on adolescents. Therefore, I believe school, students, parents, and the community should work together to implement anti-bullying and intervention program. People should take actions to prevent bullying, recognize the signs, and respond appropriately. 
The first reason justifies the significance of provoking anti-bullying altogether is that teen bullying will not only affect our youths, but also plague the modern culture and society. Mark Dombeck (2007), a licensed psychologist, wrote in his article "The Long Term Effects of Bullying" that damages on identity and self-esteem are primary negative consequences of bullying. In extreme cases, physical violence in teen bullying might lead to injury and death; however, the more devastating effects are always the emotional and psychological trauma, bullying will destroy an individual. Socially, teen bullying has an inescapable connection with social functioning since the moral development of youths today will have impact on the social development of future generations. Generating bullying, discrimination and inequality over gender, age, and socioeconomic occur between kids will remain as a problem in society. As a matter of fact, school yard bullies will possibly develop into workplace bullies since the bullies are more likely to engage in delinquent behaviors in their adulthood. Additionally, the childhood adversity will cause trust issue and mental health problem on adults. As a result, teen bullying potentially leads to some corruptions in modern culture and society. 
Secondly, the support from school community and appropriate intervention are very effective in teen bullying. Teenagers are powerless, sensitive, and easily impacted by the environment, so it's important to support the kids involved in order to stop the ongoing bullying and to minimize the effects. For all kids, a supportive environment from parents and community is crucial for their mental health and growth. The study in "Parenting styles and bullying involvement" (2014) shows that teenagers not involved in bullying perceive more affection and pleasant communication from their parents; on the contrary, kids involved in bullying usually perceive more psychological control from parents. This result demonstrates how the environment can influence the kids from little things in life. Teenagers are suffering from a feeling of inferiority and insecurity and getting lost while involving in bullying. This again makes appropriate intervention and support very important. In "The Long Term Effects of Bullying" by Mark Dombeck (2007), statics shows that anti-bullying programs are effective in reducing bullying and victimization by 20% to 23% in intervention schools as compared with control conditions. To make life safer and happier for large numbers of youth and students, the whole community should offer support to prevent bullying. 
The final main reason why we should work together on anti-bullying is that promoting anti-bullying foster a democratic and loving-kindness atmosphere in our society. In my interview with <NAME>, education psychology Ph.D. at Purdue university, he said, "Anti-bullying is important basically just on a foundational level-it's important for democracy." Bullying is wrong because it's against our idea of democracy and equality. To pursue a more democratic, peaceful and equal world, we shouldn't tolerate bullying and discrimination in our new young generation. School, parents, and community are responsible to educate our kids to tolerate and appreciate diversities of others. While implementing the anti-bullying program, a message of respecting people and protecting the minority will be delivered to the public. 
A common misconception is that teen bullying exists as a natural part of growing-up, rather than a pressing social and educational issue. However, I believe if one must endure some hardship to grow up, bullying is something we can avoid. Being bullied, or being an outsider at school, the kid will easily lose self-identity and confidence at such a young age. Experience of bullying will only do more harm than good on people, and sometimes it will develop into something out of control; therefore, it's absolutely necessary for adults to intervene and stop teen bullying. Another misconception about teen bullying is that the "victims" must be "asking for troubles", so it's kids' business instead of everyone else's. I totally disagree with this opinion because children's perceptions about "wrong and right" are always immature. How much to be autonomous and strong-minded but not selfish and aggressive? how much to accommodate society by constraining some "bad instincts" in yourselves but not losing your identities? Children need to learn these from experienced adults or their friends, they shouldn't be left alone. 
In conclusion, I believe public should work together to implement anti-bullying and intervention program in order to protect our youths, reduce the negative impacts of bullying on society, and promote a democratic and empathetic atmosphere in society. Despite being unable to criminalize bullying behavior and eliminate bullying, school and community can prevent bullying through educating and penalizing the bullies, protecting and comforting the victims, and raising public's awareness on teen bullying. We still have a long way to go, but together we will become a shield to protect the young generation. 
