Necessity of International Trade 
	According to my professor of macroeconomics said, international trade is an exchange of goods and services among different countries. These goods and services are varied and may contain clothing, computer, food, and so on. International trade makes the global become a super huge market. This market encourages more communication and closes the distance between people with different cultures. Today, international trade relates to our lives closely. Plenty of products and services we enjoy and use every single day are based on it. In my view, international trade should develop with encouragement due to its plenty of benefits for us. Although some people think international trade brings several issues and limitations, l still believe it has more benefits than harms. 
	Firstly, countries choose to engage in international trade grow more rapidly than countries that choose to lock their doors. During my interview, <name> , who teaches macroeconomics at Purdue University, explained this with an example of comparing South Korea and North Korea. South Korea is very open and trades a lot. We can see it becomes a developed country and its products in any place around the world. However, North Korea chooses an opposite strategy and isolates itself. Sixty years ago they were in the same level in global economics, but today South Korea is much more developed than North Korea. As my professor said, "trade can make all parties better off." 
	Moreover, according to the research by Boudreaux (2013) at George Mason University, international trade could generate innovation and efficiency. Firstly, a company needs to produce new goods and services to survive and to maintain its competitive position in the huge global market. Otherwise, it will not be able to keep pace with other companies and lose markets. Thus, innovations appear and stimulate the development of technology. Secondly, countries exchange goods and services through an international market. It means they can specialize in their best fields and do not have to produce everything. This can make productions become more efficient. For instance, some countries do not produce i Phone but they enjoy it due to the specialization in international trade. Apple provides the ideas of i Phone and uses cheap labor force in China and India, who have a lot of labors, to produce i Phone. Then Apple sells it around the world through international market. This process relies a lot on international trade.	 
	In addition to what I have mentioned above, international trade also makes our lives more convenient. We can buy goods and enjoy service from other countries through it. In pace with improved living standards, lots of people are willing to purchase high-quality products, so overseas purchasing agents are popular on many websites and social network like We Chat, Weibo and so on. Taking my own experience as an example. I have been purchasing Japanese and Korean skincare products for several years since I first realized I can buy things from overseas. My skin condition is not very good so I always choose skincare products very carefully. Unfortunately, most of Chinese skincare products are not very ideal, especially comparing to products in other countries like Japan and Korea which have some good brands for Asian girls. Since international trade becomes popularized, I can purchase them in my home country or in the United States directly without having to go to Japan or Korea. It is much more convenient. 
	However, as a new business approach, international trade has also been discussed about its negative impacts on the level of air pollution (Kukla. 2008). According to Kukla, during international trade, there are more transportations across countries. Ways of transportation like trains, ships and airplanes will produce a lot of air pollution. I think this is an important problem so I asked my professor about it during my interview. <name> does not think this is a disadvantage because it is avoidable if manufactures produce goods in a right and legal way. He said there was only one issue of international trade. Some data shows American workers do not get much welfare even though companies gain a lot because of international trade. There should be a redistribution of benefits from international trade. This issue is also avoidable if companies realize it. Today, we can see plenty of famous companies, for example, Nike, choose to involve in international trade and become stronger in the international market, so I think international trade brings us more benefits than harms. 
	In conclusion, I believe the benefits of international trade far outweigh its limitations. International trade makes our lives more convenient. It stimulate companies to innovate and become more efficient. International trade also increases economic growth of countries. Thus, to know more about it and accept it is very good and important for us. I expect more people, especially students, to learn more knowledge about international trade. For example, we can focus more on news about international trade and read more articles or newspapers about it. Also, universities can open more class teaching international trade. These will bring more ideas and solutions to make international trade better in the future. 
