Artificial Intelligence: A Boon or a Bane 
	AI is a very interesting field of research but there is quite a bit of controversy surrounding it. When someone says AI to a normal person, they usually relate it to movies like Terminator and i Robot; these movies which depict an era where the human world is dominated AI robots. This has sparked a debate in everyone's minds, from the common people to the greatest minds of 21st century such a Stephen Hawking, Elon Musk: Are AI robots safe and should their research in this field continue? After extensive research about AI a conclusion can be drawn that there is nothing to be terrified of about AI. 
	 According to Marcus, Para. 2 the only thing that differentiates an enthusiast from a sceptic id the time frame that we look at the future of Artificial Intelligence. Most people fear of stuff like Terminator and i Robot like AI but the main medium-term future use age of AI is going to be just space exploration, finding an alternate solution for energy due to declining fossil fuels and creating model and hypothetical solutions for problems such as climate change and global warming. The research in AI is nowhere close to the point where humans will create computer that can potentially surpass humans. Para. 3-5. 
	Marcus, Para. 6 in the same article talks about a book written by James Barrat. In his book, James Barrat talk about how if a robot is smart enough to play chess it could be smart enough to also build a spaceship. He also states that a purely artificial intelligent being would like to preserve its self, much like a human would. His argument is fallacious because as of right we have AI robots that can play chess and are actually smart enough to beat world-class players and no one of these AI robots show any intention of building a spaceship. This just goes to show that any robot created by a human can be completely controlled and will only perform the task it had been asked to do. The only difference between an AI and a normal robot is that AI can become progressively better at what they do and learn from their previous mistakes but they are incapable of doing anything other than the task they were asked to do.	 
	Lewis Para. 20-25, is her article talks about Siri and the Google app which are basically "personal assistants" integrated with their respective phones. These can do a wide variety of things and are considered AI. They can answer calls, they can answer simple questions through a voice recognition device and can also give weather forecasts. These "assistants" have now actually become smart enough, so they can be set to automatically pay your bills. So, why aren't people scared of them? Because people have confidence that these things won't hurt them and they're accepting this change. And this is simply what AI will continue to do despite of how advanced it becomes. 
	In the same article Lewis Para 15-20 talks about the wide range of fields that AI is currently helping develop. Google is currently working on driverless cars that can run by itself and can drive according to the rules and can move around to avoid obstacles and prevent accidents from happening. Currently there are advancement made in medicine with AI robots tested to perform diagnosis and also research is being conducted on robots that can maybe help cure cancer and other major illnesses in the near future. 
	An important argument that needs to be addressed which is made by most people who are against AI pertains to a recent video that went viral on You Tube about an interviewer who was interviewing an AI robot. Upon asking the question if t would ever take over the world the AI responded by saying I'm your friend and I will not hurt and will keep you safe in my people zoo. A lot of controversy raised up around the term "people zoo". In an interview with Dr. Taylor, a researcher in AI I bought up this question and asked about her opinion on the answer. She replied by saying that Ai speech is very limited as of now and more research need to be done on it. In this case the AI robot is just taking lines from the internet that it thinks best answers the question and isn't really making any sense. As it stands right now no robot can hold an actual prolonged and meaningful conversation and the only conclusion that must be drawn from this is the fact that AI speech is still not very developed and must be done more research on. She also added that, the interviewer did not do a thorough job of asking the creator why the robot was saying that and rather decided to use this to get more attention towards his content which was very unethical of him. 
	In the foreseeable future AI posts not threat to humanity. Any sort of argument held against it is completely fallacious, using misleading analogies and hypothesis like the one by James Barrat or the recent You Tube video that went viral which mislead quite few people. AI, in the current world is actually helping to make this world a better place by predicting climate change, improving medicine, making it easier to obtain information and also at the same time making lives of people much easier in the form of personal assistants such as Siri. There is nothing to be feared off about AI. All the controversy behind AI can be related to mislead group of people due to inaccurate Hollywood movies and You Tube videos. AI will and strives to make this world a better place. 
REFERNCES 
Lewis, Tanya December, 2014. Artificial Intelligence: Friendly or Frightening. Retrieved From: http://www.livescience.com/49009-future-of-artificial-intelligence.html 
Miller, M. Troy. Artificial Intelligence. Retrieved From: http://www.csl.mtu.edu/winter98/cs320/AI/aitmmiller.html 
David Alan Brier. Retrieved From: https://www.computer.org/web/closer-than-you-might-think/debating-artificial-intelligence 
Marcus, Garus October 2013. Retrieved From: http://www.newyorker.com/tech/elements/why-we-should-think-about-the-threat-of-artificial-intelligence 
Nick Bostrom 2012. THE SUPERINTELLIGENT WILL: MOTIVATION AND INSTRUMENTAL RATIONALITY IN ADVANCED ARTIFICIAL AGENTS. Retrieved From: http://www.nickbostrom.com/superintelligentwill.pdf 
