p5d1_arp 
April 10, 2016 
Should college students let their parents decide their major? 
When students graduate from high schools, they can choose to work, pursue a higher education. If they choose to enter a college to continue their study trip, they will need to choose a major before they graduate from the college. It is a tough question for some students because they have never chosen a major before. At this moment, some of them may ask their parents opinions. Some parents may directly ask their children to choose a major. It may have a question. "Should these students let their parents decide their majors? From my point of view, students should choose their majors by themselves. 
One reason is that students should choose their majors by themselves. Most students may not realize which one is their favorite major at the beginning, but most of them can find that major after one or two years. If the student selects the major which he is interested in, he will like to study the relevant knowledge of that major. If he likes to study, he will get a power to push him to study. In the college, if you do not have a power to push you, you may not like to study by yourself. However, the self-study is the main way to absorb knowledge. Also, there is no one having the responsibility to convince students to work hard. If you have not learnt enough knowledge, you may not pass the exam. It means you may not graduate from the college. To have a power is not to get a college degree; it is to help you to achieve your goal. When students can graduate, they can choose to work or continue to study some very specific areas. If the students are not interested in their majors, they may not understand which professional area should they select. My college adviser, Mr. <name> agreed with me. He said he chose the history as the college major, but he was not sure it was a right choice to select history. After listening to his parents' suggestions, he chose the history because his parents told him the history would be his favorite major. After he got the history degree in Purdue, he thought history may not the best fit for him because he did not feel any power to push him work on. His body refused to work or study in history. After several times thinking, he realized his interested major was education. Then, he decided to pursue a education bachelor degree. Studying his interested major, <name> felt he got a power to do some relevant things such as becoming an adviser. Now, he has his specific future plan and he think he can achieve it. To find an interested major is not just for study; it is to give you a power to achieve your future goal. 
Another one is college should adjust college life by themselves rather than depending on their parents. Before students decide their majors, they have to adjust the college life. If they do not adapt the college life, they may have a huge pressure. This pressure may cause the student make a wrong choice. When students get into the college, they will need to be more independent than before. As the college life has a huge difference with the high school life, college students will require to solve more problems individually. One reason is your college may be far away from your home. Your parents cannot stay with you for a long time. Another one is communication will help students find self-worth. According to Agliata and Renk's research, students cannot adjust college life well when there were few communications with their parents to students should build more communications with their parents instead of executing their order. When students can adjust college life well, they will find their self-worth. The self-worth will guide students to the right major choice. 
Moreover, if I become a father, I will let my children select their majors because too much parents' control will not help children find the suitable major. Some parents may say their children often accept their advices. Also, they will prefer to do what their parents asked. Selecting the right major can change children's future. Then these parents will think it is their duty to select the right major to their children; they will make a specific future plan to their children as well. However, the plan and the choice may harm to their children's college life. Schiffrin and partners have found students who had many helicopter parenting behaviors would have high level depression and decreased satisfaction with life. (helicopter parenting means parents will watch and give orders to their children) It means students will get more depression and less satisfaction with life when parents control their children more and more. 
In Conclusion, students should choose their major by themselves. One is students' interest will give students powers to pursue their future goals; another is students' independence in college will help students find their self-worth. Moreover, too much helicopter parenting will make students have high level depression and decreased satisfaction. 
Reference 
Agliata, Allison, Kanter, Renkand Kimberly.(2007). College Students' Adjustment: The Role of Parent-College Student Expectation Discrepancies and Communication Reciprocity. Journal of Youth and Adolescence, 1573-6601. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10964-007-9200-8 
Holly H. Schiffrin, Miriam Liss, Haley Miles-Mc Lean, Katherine A. Geary, Mindy J. Erchull, Taryn Tashner (2014). Helping or hovering? the effects of helicopter parenting on college students' well-being. Journal of Child and Family Studies, 23(3), 548-557. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10826-013-9716-3 
