4/14/2016 
Video Games VS. Sports 
Due to the rapid development of the technology, more and more video games with different features appeared that are similar to traditional sports. But it is still controversial that should video games can be considered as sports. Some people called these video games "e Sports" and classified video games as sports because video games require teamwork, skill and strategies, just like normal sports. Furthermore, a few years ago, an organization called Global Gaming League GGL tried to add video games as a demonstration sports program in 2008 China Olympic games Elsa, 2011, para.1. However, they were unsuccessful. On the other hand, a part of people may feel that video games cannot belong to sports because the biggest difference between them is video games do not have physical exertion and physical training Elsa, 2011, para.1. In some way, video games can be categorized as sports, but they have some features that cannot be satisfied to be sports; personally, I think video games can be considered as sports. 
First of all, I have to admit that is true that e Sports have no physical activities demanding, and may bring some unhealthy problems. Start with definitions of e Sports and sports from dictionary.com website, it says e Sports are competitive tournaments of video games, especially among professional gamers and sports means an athletic activity requiring strategies or physical fitness that can improve skills. Both are need strategies; however, e Sports lack of physical exertion compared to traditional sports. A blog writer, Elsa 2011 stated that some activities such as bridge, chess, billiards or video games are not actually sports, they are games, or call them e Sports or "intellectual sports". There's another reason that why video games cannot be considered as sports. In Elsa's article, she mentioned that in traditional sports, everyone knows the rules and video games as sports or as entertainments applied some of rules from sports; virtual sport games, for example, football, basketball build rules of real life. Nevertheless, a portion of video games such as fighting games, shooters have their own rules in different environments para.4. Furthermore, think about if you sit in front of the computer for long time, it may bring radiation that harmful to skin, eyes, and may feel uncomfortable with neck, wrist, and waist; at the same time some people may have bad living habits like preferring eating snacks while playing video games and cause obesity. Above reasons are accepted by the most of people who believe video games just game, cannot categorized as sports; because e Sports have negative effect on health that against the purpose of sports. In addition to, the opposite viewpoint also has several reasons. 
Secondly, I believe video games can be considered as sports because playing video games need strategies, this is an important requirement in sports too. That's why some people insist video games is a form of sports. Take League of Legends for example, from my own experience, there are more than one hundred champions in this game and these roles can be divided into different type, like Tanks, Assassins and Bruiser; these champions also can be used in different positions, like top, middle, adc, support and jungle. Thus, five players should choose champions properly that well-performed in a team. Recall that Jeremy's position was jungle, which requires cooperate with teammate to catch rivals, so he always chose champion that has sustain and high ganking-potential abilities. Besides, players should very familiar with the role they play, such as cool down time of skills; they need to calculate the time and position to perform in a team Jeremy, personal communication, March 24, 2016. Michael 2006 claimed that there is a theory, usually used in traditional sports, applied in e Sports too. The theory is called management theory means in competition, players need to highly concentrate on virtual environment, perform effectively in different roles and execute various strategies quickly and efficiently to win the game. Therefore, team need to train become a perfect condition, also called "virtual high-performance teams" para.22. Video games can belong to sports because it requires strategies, mental abilities, team work and highly concentrate. Another reason is that e Sports just like conventional sports that have huge amount of spectators. 
Thirdly, video games catch people's attentions all over the world and live streaming is a significant element that push the development of e Sports. Because of rising in live streaming, the number of spectators of e Sports can compared to one of the most popular sports, NBA. Live streaming, like Twitch.tv, provides a platform for most of professional or amateur players playing popular games; it is convenient for audience to access to top games easily and they can watch high level matches easily Tassi, 2012, para.11. Tassi 2012 also mentioned that people's passion on e Sports increases rapidly all across the world. It is like normal sports for audience who have favorite players and teams and enjoy discussing these professional teams para.7. In recent years, a game invented by Riot Company, League of Legends, driven the rise of e Sports; more like basketball in e Sports' world to fans that played by five men a team and achieve the goal together Tassi, 2012, para.20. 
To summary, video games can be categorized to sports still debatable; e Sports and sports have common features is true, but some people believe these features cannot be convinced that e Sports is sports. We analysis the definitions of these two terms, said they all require strategies and virtual focuses; besides, in popularity perspective, e Sports compare favorably with sports either. From the information above, e Sports are short of physical fitness essentially, it just can be called subcategory of sports and that's why most of people disagree that e Sports cannot be considered as sports. I believe in the future, gaming companies can add more physical activities in their video games and in a healthy way to attract people to play games. 
