P5d1 
4/13/2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Researcher shows the language is not the most important part when we do a conversation. My partner do not agree with it, he thinks language is meaningful, that why international students need to practice speaking firstly when we learning in America. 
However, My topic is based on the method of international students how to talk with local students. "Method" is key world of my topic, language is only one point when we doing a conversation, however it is not one hundred percent. My topic serve for conversation, any method just useful to talking is well. On the other hand, The material i searched in internet clarify that barriers from language that just represents 7 percent of what we communicate, which means even we cannot speak like the native speaker, nothing should be worried, we still can live independently. My father's experience of traveling is a good example. He ever did a honeymoon journey with my mother to Bali. At the beginning of the traveling I am very doubt about them because my parents never learned English before. My father just ordered hotel and air ticket of Bali in China. I asked the whole traveling when my parents ho back home. My father told me the honeymoon in Bali is exciting, my mother is satisfied to Bali's beech and fresh air. However I am not interested about it. My attention is why someone has no ability of English can live in Bali happily. He told me language is not necessary or just fit small part in conversation. He also said body language is more important than English to himself, these actions can show what he want, what he want to present. After that, I believe language could not limit conversation totally. My father experience may is not a symbol example because not anyone can be a good performer like my father. However, we can see body language is survived because group of deformed man use sign language to show what they want. 
Second, My partner opposite that a bad conversation between local students and international students just dependent on international students. 
I have to admit, a failed conversation that international students need to response more about it because of different backgrounds and culture. However, not only international students but also local students all need to response to a good talking. Currently I am in college at Purdue university in the unite state. I touch lots of local students and professor in America during this learning process. I have lots of successful talking but failed talking also happen a lot. I do a conclusion after these conversations. I can make sure I keep same level of my English during a short process of studying abroad. I have to contribute some responsibilities to some local men because of high speed of speaking and slang. I hope more and more person know that point local men need pay attention the speed of speaking and slang that make so many trouble when doing a conversation with international students. 
