Engl-10600-i75 
P5D1 
4/10/16 
Teen Bullying: A Serious issue 
In recent decades, bullying is constantly and increasingly threating the safety of our youths despite rise of public's attention over teen bullying. This controversy exists because people lack of understanding about teen bullying, that is, sometimes teasing and roughhousing are not just innocuous and na ve behaviors even if it happens on kids. In "School Bullying: Development and Some Important Challenges", the author Dan Olweu(2013) defines teen bullying, or school bullying, as a subset of aggressive behavior intend to inflict injury or discomfort upon another individual among school aged kids, with three criteria-intentionality, some repetitiveness, and imbalance of power. Over the past 20 years, the dramatic expansion of electronic technology and increasing complexity of teenagers' emotion gave rise to new types and higher prevalence of school bullying. Today, one in four students is bullied at school; in the news, terrifying words like teenager suicide and juvenile delinquency are always related to bullying. Teen bullying should be taken seriously a pressing social and educational issue, and people should implement intervention program and promote anti-bullying in large scale across countries to prevent bullying happening at school. Unable to criminalize bullying behavior and eliminate bullying, people can get higher awareness and better understanding of teen bullying. 
First of all, teen bullying should not be treated lightly from an educational basis. Teenagers are experiencing the most important period of development but lack of self-identity, and they have sensitive inside; therefore, they need the appropriate supports and expert guides from others to lead them to the right track. For victims and perpetrators in teen bullying, and other kids, a supportive environment from parents and community is extremely important for their mental health and growth. In the study of "Parenting styles and bullying involvement" (2014), statics show that teenagers not involved in bullying perceive more affection and pleasant communication from their parents, better humor, greater promotion of autonomy, and a higher frequency of disclosure behaviors; on the contrary, kids involved in bullying usually perceive more psychological control from parents, lacking real behavioral control. This result shows how the environment can influence the kids involving in bullying. 
Generating health problems and emotional damages, destroying one's self-esteem and identity, bullying has devastating negative effects on victims, especially on adolescents. Mark Dombeck(2007), a licensed psychologist, wrote in his article "The Long Term Effects of Bullying" that damages on identity and self-esteem are primary negative consequences of bullying. According to Dr. Dombeck, within a short time, being-bullied experience brings the kids with a feeling of inferiority and insecurity, leading to their angry, depressed, anxious moods in daily life; in long-term, victims cannot outgrow their childhood adversity despite the lingering feelings of anger and bitterness; they often have trouble trusting others as well as trusting themselves. In my interview with Dr. Mike Yough, an education psychology Ph.D. in Purdue University, he also indicates, "it (bullying) undermines one's sense of humanness, like it's hard for one to be a fully functional human being." 
Teen bullying will not only affect our youths, but also plague the modern culture and society. Teenagers today eager to "stand up for themselves"; however, they haven't either built their own identities or learnt to tolerate and appreciate diversities of others. Generating bullying at the end, discriminations over gender, age, and socioeconomic also occur between kids. If no one pays attention, when these kids grow up, school yard bullies will possibly develop into workplace bullies-study shows children who are the perpetrators in teen bullying are more likely to engage in delinquent behaviors in their adulthood. Teen bullying has inescapable connection with social functioning since the moral development of youths today will have impact on social development of future generations. "Anti-bullying is important basically just on a foundational level-it's important for democracy" Dr. yough pointed out in the interview. To pursue a more democratic, peaceful and equal world, we shouldn't tolerate bullying and discrimination in our new young generation. 
The typical portrait of victims in bullying is that they are weak, impotent losers who cannot stand real world cruelty and pressure in life. Thus some people consider teen bullying as a nature part of growing up because they believe bullying experience let the kids have a taste of real world. However, if one must endure some hardship to grow up, bullying is something we can avoid. Being bullied, or being an outsider at school, the kid will easily lose self-identity and confidence at such a young age. No one knows how bad the bullying will develop into, so protection is very necessary. Another misconception about teen bullying is that the "victims" must be "asking for troubles" so the best way to solve problem is letting the kids negotiate and figure out by themselves. How much to be autonomous and strong-minded but not selfish and aggressive? how much to accommodate society by constraining some "bad instincts" in yourselves but not losing your identities? Children need to learn these from experienced adults, they shouldn't be left alone. 
Any form of teen bullying should be held in high regard, and protection and intervention in bullying are necessary. Fundamentally, preventing bullying is important since it's crucial educational work; personally, childhood bullying experience will destroy one's identity and self-esteem in the long term; socially, teen bullying will plague the modern culture and society. While implementing the intervention, adults can give indirect supports and appropriate personal space to the kids. Protection and oversensitive stand on two sides of a delicate balance-adult intervention in bullying case must be appropriate; otherwise, it would only make the situation get worse, or hinder the self-development of children. It's important for everyone in the community to work together to send a unified message of anti-bullying. 
