P5D3 Argumentative Paper 
May 1, 2015 
Will You Choose the Major You Are Interested In Or Better To Your Future? 
When a child is brought to the surface of the earth, it does not have the ability to discern wrong and right. Thus, the guardian of the child is charged with the responsibility of making decisions on its behalf. A guardian is required to make decisions that are in the best interest of the child. By so doing, the child will live a healthy life. As children develop, they are furnished with information and skills that facilitate them to make suitable decisions. As they make various kinds of decisions, they appreciate that the quality of their choices will have direct implications for their lives Andrews, 2006. As such, the majority of human beings progressively enhance their proficiency in decision making on a regular basis. Students make numerous decisions on a daily basis. Most of the decisions that they make have direct repercussions on their academic performance and life in general. Choosing a major is amongst the most significant decisions that are made by students. The type of major that a student chooses will have an effect on their future prospects. As a consequence, it is essential for students to choose majors that they are highly passionate about so as to enhance their future. This paper articulates that choosing a major that one is passionate about is vital to enhancing an individual's future prospects. 
In this regard, it is appropriate for students to choose their majors on the basis of their passion. Students that choose majors that are in line with their passion tend to perform better than the one who do not. This is principally because such students tend to enjoy the coursework of the various units that pertain to their major Andrews, 2006. They are highly inspired and interested in the numerous issues that are being covered in their respective major. Consequently, they naturally gravitate towards gaining advanced knowledge about their respective major. What is more is that students who choose majors that they are passionate about usually end up in the most suitable careers. This is simply because such students do not necessarily take up conventional career paths. Instead, they can develop and design a career that best suits them. Therefore, they are more likely than their counterparts to attain a comparatively high degree of accomplishment in their professions, as well as private lives. 
In addition, passion is a vital source of motivation, and it facilitates individuals to enjoy the moments when they are participating in activities that are within the scope of issues that captivate them. As such, a student who chooses hers or his major on account of the career that they are passionate about is likely to experience a comparatively high degree of peace despite the variance of the market factors. Often, such individuals consider such situations to be challenges that need to be overcome so as to establish a prosperous career. These types of individuals typically deduce inner strength to continue working towards the realization the career of their dreams despite any setbacks that might be prevalent. 
On the contrary, there are parties who opine that students should choose their careers on the basis of the ease to secure an opportunity for employment. Persons who support this vantage point claim that the fundamental intent of education is to enable an individual to attain a financially successful life. As such, they encourage students to rationalize the process of choosing a major Nadler, 2006. The primary shortcoming of this ideology is that it fails to appreciate that human beings are emotional in nature. This implies they have a wide variety of needs and students should take account of such factors when they are choosing their majors. This is a stratagem that aims at enabling the students to choose a major that will endow them with the highest degree of satisfaction in life. 
In this light, choosing a major on the basis of the demand for a particular set of expertise may not be the most suitable approach. This is chiefly because the demand for a particular skill set varies in accordance to a vast array of market factors. As such, it might seem like the safest channel to an ideal job opportunity and prosperous life it can be highly risky. There is an extremely high likelihood that variations of the market factors can shift the demand for the career that you had already chosen Harris & Jones, 2007. Consequently, this can lead to stress, disorientation, and frustration. 
Evidently, choosing a major can be a task that is overwhelming for most students. However, the community can enable students to choose the most suitable majors through issuing proper guidance Harris & Jones, 2007. Students need to appreciate that passion is superior to practicality when choosing a major primarily because the need for achievement that determines a person's overall degree of satisfaction in life. 
