P5D3 Why choose computer science as major 
April 26, 2015 
Why choose computer science as major 
Nowadays, more and more people choose computer science as their major. There are two reasons for this decision. First, computer science is very easy to find a job. Second, students who graduate from this major get very high salary. Those two reasons may sound a little bit material, but those are two important factors when students choose a major. However, some people think that computer science only suit a few people. From my perspective, computer science is a very wide range. People can lots of things in this major. People should not be intimidated by computer science because it is difficult for most people to learn. 
One of reasons that people think computer science not suitable for most people is that computer science is too hard to learn. Most students won't even pass first professional class in computer science major, which suppose to be the easiest class in computer science major. Some people may say that passing rate of computer science is way lower than physics or most of engineering classes. However, people did not realize that computer science like a language. Students need time to get used to it, which explain why most students failed first computer science course. Students need to learn and memorize syntax and grammar of computer science language. Once students get hold of syntax and grammar, they can improve their coding ability rapidly by practicing lots of small program. Therefore, computer science is easier than other subject since students never learn computer language before, but they can master it in a year. Unlike computer science, students already learned other subject such as math, chemistry or physics for lots of years. Of course, algorithm is also very important. Unlike human language, computer language requires different logic to implement program. However, algorithm is based on abundant programming experience. Therefore, students should focus on grammar and syntax instead of algorithm at beginning, so they can have a solid foundation when they continue pursuing this major. Once students get used to the syntax, they will find that programming is not as scary as they thought. 
Another reason people believe that computer science is for small amount people is people would under lots of pressure if they work in IT industry. For example, students who chose security track, which is write application for bank or some high-classified organization. They need to make sure that no one can hack their program, which means their program cannot have one single bug in it. Those people are taking a risk that they may get fired because they made a minor mistake in their program. However, every job has its risk. This is not success if people don't take chance. It may seem too rigorous for those programmers, but it is their responsibility to make their program perfect. Also, there are plenty choices for students from computer science. Students can either choose software engineering or web design, which require less immediate security check. All in all, no matter what job people work on, they should have work ethic. Furthermore, people who work hard and dedicate to produce a perfect program usually get promoted, so they do not need to program or do research anymore. In the opposite, people who always worried about their job and do not know how to handle those pressure usually replaced by younger and better programmers. "After ten years programming," <name> added, "if programmer does not promote, younger one will replace him." (<name>, 2015) 
Computer science is a promising major. If students can keep calm and dedicate to it, they will get reward. (Patel, 2011) Also, software engineering has highest average salary among all technology jobs, which is around 63, 000 per year. Furthermore, according to guidance website Career Cast, as author mentioned, 'software engineering is best job of 2011.' (Patel, 2011) There is nothing in the world can be defined as too hard for people to learn. People create this major, so it means fair amount of students can and have ability to learn it. Any occupation is hard if people want to do their best. Computer science is hard to learn if people do not have programming background, but it does not mean it is too hard for people to learn it. As long as students strive for it, they will have a promising future. Mr. Zou said, "The most popular tracks among all are software engineering, security and web application." (<name>, 2015) All in all, people should choose computer science major not only because it pays well, but also because it is manageable. In my opinion, if students can conquer basic knowledge and get used to the syntax, they will find that programming is a very interesting thing to do. I can indulge myself in programming without any worries. Therefore, people who think computer science only suit for small amount of people do have understood this major well enough. 
Reference 
Patel, P. (2011, september 22). Where the jobs are: software engineering [Careers]. Spectrum, IEEE , 48 (9), p. 28. 
Why choose computer science as major 
