Two thousands year before, Chinese doctor found that there are a lot of "magic points" on human body.( George L.T., 2015) Stimulating these magic points can influence different body function of human. Chinese doctor called this method acupuncture, and these magic points acupoints. There are plenty of alternative hospitals all around the world which provides acupuncture treatment. Additionally, more and more people believe in the good effect of acupuncture treatment, and they are choosing alternative medicine instead of modern medicine and general surgery. My research topic was about if acupuncture has more efficiency than doing exercise on obesity. However, after I did a vast number of research online, I have a doubt about the real effect of acupuncture because the acupuncture doctor would like to give a treatment for patients' lifestyles also, which might make good influence on the body. I think acupuncture is more like a placebo and short-acting painkiller for patients. 
I had acupuncture treatment when I was in China. The acupuncture I had is for stopping the bad stomachache and getting rid of the pimples on my face. My face was getting cleaner after one-month treatment and the frequency of stomachache was less than before also. However, I remembered that I stopped eating food with strong stimulated flavor food and had more sleep then I usually had at that period. Therefore, I cannot tell if the acupuncture is the one who help my body get better. There are lots of people using acupuncture for fat loss now. In my view, the reason why there is a controversial about the effect of acupuncture for obesity is because some patients followed the doctor's advice, some of the patients did not. There is no research now can perfectly prove the effect of acupuncture. (J.M. Lacey, 2003) 
Acupuncture now is not only famous in China, but also popular in all around the world. I do not think there is no effect about this treatment at all but I doubt if it has that high influence on human body. There are some research showing that acupuncture can remit the pain of patients. ( Paul Ingraham,2009) When the doctor stimulate some of the acupoints on the body, patients feel relax then before. Also, acupuncture is more likely to play a psychological factor for human. (University of South Hampton, 2015) For example, for a patient who has lower back pain, he believed in the effect of his acupuncture treatment and thought that he is getting better than before. However, he had back surgery after his three year acupuncture treatment.(George L. T, 2015) 
In contrary, we can not exactly say that acupuncture has no effect because there is no evidence in any research can prove that and some doctors still think that acupuncture is a potential medical treatment for people.(J.M. Lacey, 2003) In a fat loss research, the patients who get the acupuncture treatment lose 4.7% wight more than the patients who did not. The common problem for the research is that no one can control all the effective factors such as lifestyle and diet one hundred percent. 
In conclusion, I think that acupuncture is more like a placebo than a medicine method for patients. However, I can not say it has no efficiency because there is no evidence about it until now. I hope that one day, researchers can find a way to control all the possible factors and prove the effect of acupuncture. 
1. Stephen H. Boutcher (10/05/10). High-Intensity Intermittent Exercise and Fat Loss. Retrieved from: http://www.hindawi.com/journals/jobe/2011/868305/ 
2. Wu J., Li Q., Chen L., Tian D.(07/14). Clinical research on using acupuncture to treat female adult abdominal obesity with spleen deficiency and exuberant dampness. 
Retrieved from: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24992753 
3.J. M. Lacey, A. M. Tershakovec and G. D. Foster (2003). Acupuncture for the treatment of obesity: a review of the evidence. 
Retrieved from: http://www.nature.com/ijo/journal/v27/n4/full/0802254a.html 
4.university of South Hampton,(12/12/2015). Psychological factors play apart in acupuncture treatment of back pain. 
Retrieved from: http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2015-02/uos-pfp021215.php 
5. George L. T. MA, (2015)The History of acupuncture in China. 
Retrieved from : http://www.healthy.net/Health/Article/The_History_of_Acupuncture_in_China/1819 
