Korean government Vs. Zoophilia 
	Over several decades, there were continuous issues about Zoophilia. Zoophilia which refers a sexual behavior between animals and human was done in religious or political purpose in past western countries. However, it was revealed to have several side effects and have been banded. However, surprisingly, not only the western countries but the Asian countries also get to have issues related to Zoophilia. While western countries have relatively well prepared laws for each cases, Asian countries only have slight acknowledgment on it. It is mostly because they still think themselves as the safe zone from Zoophilia. Among those Asian countries, Korea is in the most severe state that they do not have any law prepared but have increase in nation's interest in Zoophiila. I insist that Korea should make laws or change policies for upcoming occurrences. Moreover, there are several reasons why it should be done as soon as possible. 
Moreover, Zoophilia causes severe diseases according to "Zoonoses - Animals Can Make You Sick" written by Rosenman 2006. To give examples, there are Brucellosis, Leptospirosis, and Cysticercoids. Especially, Cysticercoids needs surgery on brain or eyes to be cured. Moreover, Brucellosis is life-threatening enough with the very first symptom of the infection. To the government, the health of its nation equals to the power of itself. Thus, I strongly insist that it is time for government to control the harmful behaviors which can cause several life loses. People may say that getting diseases is not the problem of the country, but the Korean government should give support on the patients due to "Nation Insurance Law" Law No. 14084, 1998. Even though it superficially seems like the problem of individuals, it is an actual problem of the government. Because the government have to pay for their treatment. Thus, before paying a bunch of money into the cure of those harmful diseases, the government should make changes on its policies regarding Zoophilia. 
	In conclusion, the Korean government should make law related to the Zoophilia. Because Zoophilia is gaining more popularity in Korea, and Zoophilia can be a source of fatal diseases which can consume lots of money in treatment. Lastly, Zoophilia is not matter of right, it is more closed to crime because it is done without the agreement of animals. If governments do not feel urgency of the problem, it will have severe problems in the future. I hope my essay will make rouse on the society and help the government to start the preparation and make a progress. 
Reference 
Park, K. 2016, March 7. "Gang- rape on animals" Retrieved from http://news.kmib.co.kr/article/view.asp?arcid=0010424854&code=61121111&cp=nv 
Rosen Man, K. 2006. "Zoonoses -Animals Can Make You Sick". Retrieved from 
http://nasdonline.org/910/d000752/zoonoses-animals-can-make-you-sick.html 
Ministry of Health and Welfare [Nation Insurance Law] Law No. 14084, 1998 R.O. Korea. 
Larson, R. 1998 "Animal Cruelty May Be a Warning. Often Precedes Harm to Humans," Retrieved from The Washington Times 23 Jun. 1998 
