P5d1_arp 
April 8th 
The Argumentation On "Whether Marco Polo have been to China" 
About seven hundred years ago, Marco Polo became the first European who traveled to Ancient China for trade. When him came back to Europe, he published a book to introduce his experience in ancient China to European people. The book is known as "Marco Polo's journey in China", which caused a dramatic impact to the society of Europe. In the book, Marco Polo successfully depicted a broad image on the amazing civilization of China. However, most of the details he provides in the book are somehow exaggerating. For example, he said that imperial palaces in China are entirely made of gold and silver. He also implied in his book that both Chinese male and female wore Silk clothes on the street every day. Therefore, his book remained as a controversial work through the history. The opponents state that Marco Polo fabricated his work and he became famous by cheating the people. They start to question the work of Marco Polo for several aspects. They can be summarized as four questions. why did Marco Polo fail to record the great Wall of China? Why didn't Marco mention anything about Chinese writing system? Why didn't Marco provide any description on the bound foot of Chinese women? Why didn't Marco Polo speak any Chinese if he claimed to stay in China for seventeen years. I am here to defend my position as an opponent. 
The Arguments of the advocate of Marco Polo 
The great wall we see today is much more different from it was in ancient China. About seven hundred years ago, the great wall was small and unattractive due to the lack of maintainability. In addition to that, there was not much great wall in China at that age. This is the reason that Marco didn't pay much attention to the wall. 
According to the record, Marco lived with Mongols while he was in China. As a minority group, Mongols don't have to learn how to write or speak Chinese. Moreover, Marco was mere a semi-literate merchant and he had no interest to introduce the Chinese writing system in his book. 
The custom of bound foot didn't spread over the Entire China at that time yet. In another word, not many Chinese women practice this custom. Even it was practiced by some of Chinese women, the cripple women would stay at home and shouldn't be observed by Marco Polo. 
The official language for Chinese upper class was Turkish or Persian at the that time. Since Marco Polo was recruited by Chinese emperor to work in the royal court, he is supposed to use Turkish language or Persian language. 
Mine arguments 
The great wall already existed for centuries before Marco Polo came to China. According to the recent research, there were huge amount of ancient Chinese great wall 
Relics Found in central Asia or northern China. Here is the quote. "Despite the lack of literary reference, my feeling is that the survival of relics & constructions in the Central Asian deserts suggests that there might have been quite a lot of Great Wall extant in those areas at the time." (Did Marco Polo go to China p-296 Frances W). In addition to that. Even though that these ancient great wall were old and inconspicuous, they still remained in a striking amount on the silk road. When Marco Polo was passing by the road, it is unreasonable for he to just ignore these strange military buildings. In the book he wrote to introduce China, he doesn't mention one word about these great wall. 
It is true that Marco Polo lived with Mongol people for all time in China. Nonetheless, this fact doesn't mean that Marco had no chance to observe Chinese writing by himself. In the contrast, Marco should be able to notice Chinese writing system for many times. For instance, Marco Polo introduced the Chinese paper money in his book. He provides all the descriptions for the paper money except the Chinese words onside. Even though that he was not well-educated people, he should notice the unique writing order of the Chinese words. 
As a matter fact, there was another foreigner who traveled to China at same period. His name was Odoric of Pordenone and he came to between 1320 and 1330. Marco came to China at the end of 13th century. Therefore, they were at the same period. Odoric also provides the introduction to China in his book. Among all other description in his book, the description on the bound foot of Chinese women was one of the most shocking realities. In the contrast, Marco didn't write down a single sentence to introduce this custom in his book for all time. 
Even though that the official language was not Chinese in that time, all the major cities should have their own original Chinese names. For example, Yang Zhou was one of the Chinese cities that once were visited by Marco Polo. As a foreigner who was not capable of using Chinese language, Marco didn't mention any problems on Chinese interpretations in his book. Instead of that, Marco labeled the name of Hang Zhou in Turkish or Persian language. It seems to me that Marco Polo was not bothered by the Chinese interpretation at all. I found it conspicuous that a foreign merchant who claimed to live in China for seventeen years and was not bothered by Chinese interpretation at all. Here is the statement from a researcher, "Unlike William of Ru Bruck, who complained about his, Marco Polo never raises the question of interpreters or interpretation (except in one passage in the mid-15th century Toledo manuscript which I will discuss further)" (Did Marco Polo go to China P-296 Frances W) 
Conclusion 
For each argument provided by advocates of Marco Polo, I refute it in an objective attitude. As a result, the opponents have advantages over the defenders of Marco Polo. The conclusion is clear that Marco Polo didn't come to China in the history. 
