P5d3_arp 
Dec 11, 2015 
The Argument of Video Games-the influence and usage of it in education 
Through nearly a month of researching and paper writing of the different part of the topic about video games, now I have more understanding of the topic: whether video games are generally good or not for people, especially for college students like us. And in my point of view, I think video games are more beneficial. In this paper, I'll talk about the result I get and the main stream theory of video games. 
First, I have heard a lot from the media that the video games are addictive and have a lot bad influences on the player. One of the paper I chose in the synthesis paper: A Study of Time Management: The Correlation between Video Game Usage and Academic Performance Markers not only strongly supports this thought, but also does a research that relate the gaming time of the student to their GPA and SAT score. Though the result shows that as the gaming time increases the score of the students do have intention of going down, like what the author himself mentioned later, due to the complexity of college life, it is still hard to determine whether it is the game that influence the score of the students or just the students gaming habits that influence the scores. This article also mentioned the relation they noticed between social life and video games that the players are less likely to get into social situation. To me, this is a simple problem of introverts and extroverts. What I mean is that the introvert people, which are less interested in get involved into the face to face social environment, will more intend to communicate with other people through ways other than meet in person. The games are just one of the ways that fits what they want. Even if the games really have bad influence on our study, there are still some ways that we can use to manage our time and avoid playing too much games, like the "earning system" my academic advisor mentioned during the interview, which means let the kids use time of study, or in her case, the reading time to "earn" their time of gaming or other ways of relax. 
Meanwhile, the usage of game on different parts of our life also grew rapidly as the technology developed. My research of this trend of development mainly focused on two topics: how the games make our life more and more convenient, and how to use it on education. 
As for the usage of game in our daily life, there are some examples that show the potential of games to not only grow with, but also push the development of technology forward. The first thing comes into my mind is the Head up Display (HUD). This is the thing that shows the important information at the sides of the screen so that they won't block your sight. The HUD was first invented during the WWI. Back then it was used to help the pilots on the warplanes to aim their targets. However, the use of this technology for the common people did not appear until the coming out of the very first video game in the world: the Pong. And this is ten years earlier than the first use of it on the common flight. Moreover, the first public show of visual reality, which is becoming more and more popular in our sight, is on a video games exhibition, with the Kinect of Micro soft. It seems like the games are becoming a base or test field of new techs. Maybe someday, we can see the interactive interface like the one appears in the movie Minority Report (2002), which allow us to do what we want by place some simple gesture in the air. 
On the other hand, for the educational use of games, this can be divided into two parts: use games to motivate student or simply use it as a tool in teaching. As a motivation, since the games are loved by not only most of the children, but also some of the adults, it will definitely be helpful in this way. Like the "earning system" I mentioned before, which not only control the game time of children, but also motivate them to spend more time on study to "earn" more time to play. There is also a paper I found that researched about the motivational effect of game to the students. It is the third one in the reference list. They choose some students to use the games as their motivation of compete each other on study. The result of this research shows that there are significant increases of the grades of all the students in it with no additional effort paid by neither the students nor the teacher. This result shows that there is definitely useful ways to use games as a motivation of study. As for usage of games as teaching tools, there already have been ways like the app my advisor mentioned in the interview that she once used on teaching of the history about Thomas Jefferson. This app not only shows the history like a video, but also let the students to choose what to do at some important point of his life, if they did not make the right choice, Mr. Jefferson will fail to be the president or even die at some dangerous situation. Not only on the teaching in school, the game can also be helpful on stimuli the brain to let it keep smart. There is an article I used in the synthesis paper talked about this(4th in reference list). This article do a research that let some elders to play brain-beneficial games for a certain period every day, and do a test of their brain after a month. The result of research shows that the games do help their brain to slow or stop aging. This shows that there is some games that are good for brain. 
After doing all of these researches online and writing all these papers, now I know a lot more on this topic and also have a glance on the future career I want to pursue. I think these experiences will help me do better in the college and my life in the future. 
Reference list: 
1. Vivek, A. (2007, August). A Study of Time Management: The Correlation between Video Game Usage and Academic Performance Markers. CYBERPSYCHOLOGY & BEHAVIOR, 552-559. 
2. Shusett, R. (Director). (2002). Minority report [Motion picture]. Dream Works Pictures. 
3. Juan C. B. (2010) Using game theory and Competition-based Learning to stimulate student motivation and performance. doi:10.1016/j.compedu.2010.02. 018 
4. Nouchi R, Taki Y, Takeuchi H, Hashizume H, Akitsuki Y, et al. (2012) Brain Training Game Improves Executive Functions and Processing Speed in the Elderly: A Randomized Controlled Trial. PLo S ONE 7(1): e29676. doi:10.1371/journal.pone. 0029676 
