Assignment 4 draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Social media and privacy: argumentative paper 
Introduction and Background 
	In the last decade, with the emerge of all kinds of social media in result of technology advancement, our social life has been utterly changed. Social medias made sharing our life much easier and information spreading much faster, however, there is seems always a negative side towards every new technology. As soon as people discover that people are given up their privacy freely, it not hard to track down their personal status, house address and even daily schedule. If people with bad intentions decided to rob your house, all they need to do is to watch your social media posts until you give away your information that nobody is in the house. Not only our daily life is under surveillance but also our online activities are also tracked, usually for commercial purpose, searching engines and marketing websites use technologies such as tracking cookies in users' web browser, tracking IP addresses or even GPS services to link our social accounts and our search results in order to present the commercial we might be interested in. 
The Use of Real Information 
The controversies existed in social medias makes me wonder, is it a good idea to reveal our true information to social medias? In my opinion we should not share our real information on social medias, here are my reasons: 
Potential Household Break-in and Burglary 
	As mentioned in the introduction, some users like to share their travel plans on social networking sites. Based on my personal experience I have seen lots of people sharing their travel photos and locations without checking privacy settings so they are exposed to the whole world. The action of sharing travel plans is absolutely not beneficial since a report by the police department of Prince William county suggested that over 75% of convicted burglars believed that other burglars uses social media to find targets(http://www.pwcgov.org/, 2016). Burglars usually do it firstly by using the 'nearby friends' functions provided by most social medias, then they will wait until users' post anything about their absence at home. Finally, burglars are able to either acquire credit card information form mail box or break in user's home and take valuables. Some people may argue that they want their friends and families to know their absence. A better way of inform them is by communicating in real life or inform them via secured messaging tools. There is no need to let everyone know you are not at home. 
Possible Identity Theft 
	Many people's initiate intention of registering a social networking account is to communicate with real life friends, thus most of them will use real information for their friends to find them. The number of users using their photos and names on social website is bigger than I thought, a survey done by Pew Research Center (Mary Madden,2012) indicates that in 2012, 91% of teenage users, which is a big part of social media users have posted photos of themselves on social medias and 92% of them use their real names on the social accounts they used the most often. The huge number of users provide real information makes identity theft possible. This is a case that happened in my life, one of my friends posted about his new life in college, which includes his selfies, several months an unknown user account that used my friend's selfies as profile picture found me and claim that he is in trouble and needed some money. I quickly realized it was a spam and inform my friend to delete his pictures posted. Although in this case the fraud has been stopped, there were other users who set their feet into the traps. You might say that a few profile pictures are fall from believable. Indeed, we may distinguish the real user in many ways but not all the social media users are as careful, especially elders and anxious family members, they are the main target population of identity theft frauds. Also, an experiment report published by Leyla Bilge in 2009 shown that it is possible to use applications to break through CAPTCHA and completely clone user's profile, what's more, two out of five social medias on their list don't even have CAPTCHA as protection, which makes cloning even easier. 
Unnecessary Marketing Messages 
In the earlier interview with professor Hansen, a clinical professor at the University of Purdue teaching network administrating, professor Hansen mentioned that everything we do online is traceable. Mostly for commercial proposes, social medias use users' age, search results and their friends profile to determine what kinds of advertisement to present, in a survey done by Michael a. Stelzner in 2011, among 3342 marketers, 93% of them have used social media as marketing tools. As you can see marketing via social medias in really popular, and it might be a potential threat to our personal life. Once users' interests have been recorded, corresponding ads will pop up whenever they go to a website. These ads are annoying since they sometimes block the page and it will sometimes be awkward if seen by the others. some may argue that these ads can help them find the product that they want because ads are based on their interest. The price you pay is way too high in compared to finding that particular product. Plus, the tracking technology can be destructive if falling to the wrong hands. 
Conclusion 
	In this paper I discussed the reasons why we should not give our real information online and provided three major reasons for my claim. No matter people are agreed with me or not, social media is a powerful tool and should be use with cautions. 
Reference 
Bilge, L., Strufe, T., Balzarotti, D., & Kirda, E. (2009). All your contacts are belonged to us: Automated identity theft attacks on social networks. Retrieved April 2, 2016, from http://delivery.acm.org.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/10.1145/1530000/1526784/p551-bilge.pdf?ip=128.210.126.199&id=1526784&acc=ACTIVE SERVICE&key=A79D83B43E50B5B8.2BA8E8EA4DBC4DB7.4D4702B0C3E38B35.4D4702B0C3E38B35&CFID=596980317&CFTOKEN=13618322&__acm__=1459654774_00152824610f2c341ec1f444cbe9bc17 
Hansen, R. (2016, March). Social Media and Privacy: An interview [Personal interview]. 
How Burglars Use Social Media. (n.d.). Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.pwcgov.org/government/dept/police/Pages/How-Burglars-Use-Social-Media.aspx 
Madden, M., Lenhart, A., Cortesi, S., Gasser, U., Duggan, M., Smith, A., & Beaton, M. (2013, May 20). Teens, Social Media, and Privacy. Retrieved April 02, 2016, from http://www.pewinternet.org/2013/05/21/teens-social-media-and-privacy/ 
STELZNER, M. A. (2011, April). SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING INDUSTRY REPORT How Marketers Are Using Social Media to Grow Their Businesses. Retrieved April 2, 2016, from http://www.craigkunce.com/cdt/cdt_samples/oehninger_barbara_sp2012.pdf 
Dear Reader Letter 
Dear reader, 
At first I wanted to write two claim and then I found out it seems that one claim is sufficient although I don't know if adding more claim would be better, the claim is that we should not use real information online. For this claim I gave three reason, they are Potential Household Break-in and Burglary, Possible Identity Theft and Unnecessary Marketing Messages. For the first two reasons I feel pretty since they have enough proof and statistics. However, for the third one I feel like it is not convincing enough because ads displayed are more of a personal preference thing that what kinds of ads people want to see. 
Furthermore, I am not sure if the title of this paper is correct, I don't know if it is appropriate use my claim as a title so I just put 'Social media and privacy: argumentative paper' 
as title. There might be other places like transitions or logics that needed to correct. 
Sincerely, 
