Interview Report (draft 1) 
April 12, 2015 
1101 words 
Nuclear Energy Development in Malaysia 
Introduction 
	A green, powerful and sustainable energy source is probably the Holy Grail of energy production because those characteristics are paramount for a country to prosper in both long and short run. As for today, nuclear energy possess those three keys and it has been develop in many countries. On the other hand, Malaysia is still using fossil fuels and hydropower only as a major source of its electrical production, which is around 92.4% and 5% respectively. The fact that nuclear energy contributed 0% in total output of energy production has raised questions over why Malaysia does not develop its own nuclear power source. Unfortunately, energy production is not a straightforward topic as it encompasses scientific, economic and technical issues. Those fundamental issues lies on three questions which is 1) Why nuclear energy should be develop instead of other energy source, 2) is it economically viable and 3) how to handle the safety issues of nuclear energy. Therefore, this essay will answer each questions to justify that Malaysia should develop nuclear energy as one of its power source. 
Why Nuclear Energy Above All Else? 
	To understand why nuclear should be developed; we have to compare the scientific advantages and downsides of each current major energy sources in Malaysia with nuclear energy. Starting with total output, Professor Bean noted that the high consumption of fossil fuels is understandable as it is one of the easiest fuels to process. Nonetheless, he noted that the rate of this consumption is unsustainable because fossil fuel is depleting faster compared to hydropower and nuclear energy. Besides, fossil fuels emit the largest amount of green house gases such as carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide, which will breach numerous environmental treaties that Malaysia had pledged to such as the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty to reduce greenhouse gases emission (Basri, et al., 2014). Hydropower, a green energy and the second largest energy contributor in Malaysia, has a limited room for development because developing hydropower dam requires large lake or river, which are naturally limited in Malaysia. With the energy demand in Malaysia rising every year (Basri et al., 2014), hydropower does not seem to be able to support the demand for the long run. Nuclear energy however, is powerful and green. It possesses highest energy density, which is the amount of potential energy store in its fuel. Only a small amount of uranium is needed to provide large power. Professor Bean also claims that nuclear energy emits zero pollutants on daily operation. In terms of lifespan, the fuels for nuclear energy have a huge future because only 4% of their fuels are used in one energy cycle process (Malaysia Nuclear Society, 2013). If this process technique is improved and more nuclear fuel like thorium is developed, nuclear energy can provide energy for the next 10000 years. 
Is it economically viable? 
	Developing nuclear energy requires a strong financial support to build sophisticated safety equipment and nuclear processing. Professor Bean supports this notion by describing that the capital cost for building a nuclear power plant is 10 times more expensive than coal power plant. Furthermore, Malaysian Nuclear Society (2014) reminds that development of nuclear energy also requires a lot of human capital investment for a country to have qualified engineers, operators and educated society. However, this does not spell the end for a developing country like Malaysia to have its own nuclear power plant. Currently, 100% of coal used for electrical production in Malaysia is imported (Basri et al. 2014) and this supply is needed continuously to satisfy the energy demand. With these sources depleting, the cost for importing coals will rise and disturb the economical revenue for Malaysia. Given that Malaysia energy demand is increasing and there is no other powerful alternatives to fossil fuels, nuclear is the only power source that is able to provide self-sufficiency for Malaysia. Uranium, the common nuclear fuel, needs to be imported only once in few years according to Professor Bean and that is why developing country like Taiwan are using nuclear as one of its main power source to ensure no disruption of fuel supply. The daily operational cost of nuclear energy is also the least compared to all major electrical power plants. As a result, it can provide economical stability in the long run. 
How to ensure nuclear safety? 
	Being dubbed as a loose cannon by an influential anti-nuclear activist, Hellen Caldicott, nuclear energy weaknesses has been scrutinized by many for a long time. Chernobyl mishaps and Fukushima incident are probably the two most notorious radiation outbreaks caused by nuclear power plant and Hellen Caldicott (2006) was quick to denounce nuclear safety by describing the danger that nuclear possesses. She insisted that radiation can cause cancer and to some extent leading to death. However, just like lions caged behind a bar, radioactive materials are actually not something that exists in abundance to the public and are free to endanger them. Technically, nuclear waste is safely handled worldwide by being kept in dry caskets that are stored deep underground and away from the society. There will also be thorough inspection of nuclear safety made by International Atomic Energy Agency to any nation that possessed nuclear power plants. In fact, nuclear power plant itself requires operational license to ensure it is run under international safety standard. 
Conclusion 
		Based on the evidence given, nuclear energy is probably the closest form of energy that can be considered as the Holy Grail of energy production. It emits zero pollutants in daily operation, it has highest energy density and it has a lifespan for thousands of years ahead. The current energy scheme in Malaysia clearly requires diversified energy input and nuclear energy is the only alternative available to step in line for the current energy sources used in Malaysia. I would also like to quote Professor Bean whom I interviewed. He said "if we come up with something that solve the problem for 100 years, the guys who get the 100 years to solve the next problem should solve the problem". For Malaysia, sooner or later it has to have a powerful alternative energy. Hence Malaysia develop nuclear energy before it is too late. 
Reference: 
Basri, N., Ramli, A., & Aliyu, A. (2014). Malaysia energy strategy towards sustainability: A panoramic overview of the benefits and challenges. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 42, 1094-1105. 
Caldicott, H. (2006). Nuclear power is not the answer. New York: The New Press. 
Malaysia Nuclear Society. (2013). Nuclear energy in Malaysia - closing the gaps. Paper is presented at ICEE '13: IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science. doi:10.1088/1755-1315/16/1/012136 
