The Scientific Nature of Quantum Physics 
Is quantum physics scientific? 
	To many people, that must be a very awkward question. In my view, quantum physics is scientific, as it can explain specific phenomena like the different behaviors of light in the photoelectric effect and the double - slit experiment. Additionally, it can be used as real - world applications, such as quantum cryptology. 
	Before the arguments, I would like to state that the term quantum is described as the smallest unit of information or energy that can be transferred each time. Quantum physics is generally the study of the microscopic world of matter, while things in this world hardly behave in the same way as our interpretations predicted. 
	First of all, quantum physics is scientific because it can explain the different behaviors of light in different experiments. The double -slit experiment, is generally an experiment displaying the wave character of light. In this experiment, we put a board with two slits in it between a light - source and a screen for displaying the light. If we light up the source, there will be dark and bright fringes of light displayed on the screen. This is because light is showing its wave - character here, where the wave through those two slits are interfering with each other. The term interference refers to the addition of waves when the peaks of them meet together, which will result in a bright fringe on the screen in this case and vice versa. On the other hand, in the photoelectric effect - in which we shine a beam of light on a metallic plate, there will be tiny bright spots appearing on the plate. This is because the light particles can transfer enough energy to the electrons to excite them. With excess energy, an excited electron is likely to fly away from the atoms it was staying with. Why particles this time? Should not light be a wave? According to Does god play dice? History of quantum physics by Tianyuan Cao (2006), those two questions kept scientists confused for a number of years, until the Wave - Particle Duality of quantum physics is addressed, the confusion disappeared at last. 
	Cao also addresses that the wave - particle duality basically suggests that whether light is actually a wave or a particle is meaningless. It is our way of observation that determines its character: in the double - slit experiment, light is a wave; but in the photoelectric effect, light is a particle. As a result, quantum physics is able to explain this profound situation, so it is scientific. 
	Only one example can hardly stand as a solid argument. Thus, in order to prove quantum physics is scientific, we can also consider its capability to be used in real - world applications. 
	Like I mentioned, to determine whether a term is scientific or not, we can find out if it can be used in any real - world applications. Thus, we can consider one of those applications - quantum cryptology. Due to the fact that when mentioning the term quantum, we are dealing with an extremely tiny amount of information or energy, while this small unit of matter can easily be affected by objects with normal size (like a small ball can be easily crashed away by a big ball), one quantum of information also has a similar property. Quantum cryptography takes advantage of the properties of the smallest bits of matter to operate. Consequently, simply measuring the properties of a quantum system changes those properties. Accordingly, in 10 real - world applications of quantum mechanics, Jonathan Atteberry (2013) states that "if someone intercepts the quantum key to an encoded message, they will change the key in the process. When the intended recipient examines the key, that person then knows the key was intercepted and can request a new key." In this case, quantum physics is again proven to be scientific for its capability for real - world applications. 
	 Still, there are voices claiming that quantum physics is not scientific because they insist that no terms can be characterized as scientific if it cannot give proper explanations for the actual state or situation. Interestingly, they use the Paradox of Schrodinger's cat to support this viewpoint. Here, Erwin Schrodinger himself describes this paradox in Die gegenw rtige Situation in der Quantenmechanik (The present situation in quantum mechanics) (1935) as a thought experiment which is putting a cat inside a sealed box, which contains a device that has a fifty-fifty chance of killing the cat. Our only way to find out whether the cat is dead or alive, is to open the box. The paradox suggests that according to quantum physics, it is just our way of observation that determines the character or outcome of an object or a situation. Then, in this situation, the cat is alive and dead at the same time inside the box before our observation takes place. They claim that as we can never see a cat which is alive and dead at the same time in our daily lives, or in labs, quantum physics is therefore not scientific. 
Actually, they are partly correct. Quantum physics still cannot explain certain situations completely; however, another idea in quantum physics can actually partly explain this paradox. It is again the double - slit experiment; but this time, we use a source that can shoot out one electron at a time, and we place a screen to hold the electrons behind the slits. What will happen this time? Will the single electrons still follow the behavior of a wave? According to Feynman, Richard P. and Robert B. Leighton and Matthew Sands (1965) in The Feynman Lectures on Physics, Vol. 3, the answer is yes - after billions of electrons have hit that screen, we can still get a pattern very similar to the one we got using a normal light source. Why? Scientists wondered, so they decided to put detectors behind each slit to see which slit the electron went through; however, the patterns just disappeared. In fact, this result had been proved by an experiment by Tonomura Akira in 1985. 
	This time, quantum physics again explains the weird situation. It suggests that for an electron, such a tiny and fast - moving microscopic object, we cannot measure it with normal equipment anymore. Addressed by Professor Mark Haugan, that even a slight magnetic field/ electric field/ radiation given out by the equipment for the detection of electrons - is already strong enough to change the motion of them. As a result, any electron that went through the slits can be knocked off from the possible tracks heading towards the screen. After this, scientists linked quantum physics with mathematics, and reached an idea called the wave functions. Haugan also mentioned that it is generally about the distribution of probabilities for a certain system, and in this case, the possibility the electron can be at one place in particular. Moreover, the electrons still form a pattern similar to the one we get using a light source, is just because the probability of the electrons landing at places where light is more likely to be brighter at - is relatively higher. Unfortunately, even quantum physics cannot manipulate or describe what happened after the emission of electron and before it hits the screen. As a result, according to Cao (2006) and Haugan (2014), we can only say that the electron went through the left slit and the right slit at the same time - like Schrodinger's Cat being alive and dead at the same time. 
Consequently, we cannot say that quantum physics is not scientific in this case, as it partly explains this phenomenon. Even though its ability to explain certain phenomena and to be used in real - world applications - has already verified the fact that quantum physics is scientific. Perhaps it is more accurate to say that there are still imperfections in quantum physics - like a painting partly done. Its general contour formed, incomplete, so it waited, and is still waiting for new discoveries to give it a glossy finish. Just like the shivering shock brought to the world by quantum physics itself one hundred years ago, will there be another tempest shaking the knowledge tower of mankind in the near future? 
Reference List 
Jonathan Atteberry (2013), "10 Real-world Applications of Quantum Mechanics", http://www.discovery.com/tv-shows/curiosity/topics/10-real-world-applications-of-quantum-mechanics.htm 
Tianyuan Cao (2006), "Does God Play Dice? History of Quantum Physics", Chapter 7: Uncertainty 
Schr dinger Erwin (November 1935). "Die gegenw rtige Situation in der Quantenmechanik (The present situation in quantum mechanics)" 
Mark P. Haugan (Oct.8th.2014) #from notes taken during the interview# 
R Mir (2007), "A double-slit `which-way' experiment on the complementarity-uncertainty debate", 2. Concepts of momentum transfer 
http://iopscience.iop.org/1367-2630/9/8/287/fulltext/#nj253784fn4 
