Gap year struggle 
For a long time, students go to college right after they graduate from high school. But over the decades, taking gap years between high schools and colleges has become more prevalent in education field. Questions have been raised on whether taking gap years will benefit students or not. My opinion is that taking gap years is beneficial. Students can take a break from competitive pressure of high school, find out more about themselves, and have time for their own development. But people also start to think about the disadvantages of taking gap years: 1) taking gap years costs too much money 2) students may not get enough guidance during gap years 3) students' safety is threatened especially when they are in foreign country 4) miss the chance to get higher education. 
Nowadays, with the growth of students taking gap years, people start to concern about the cost of taking gap years. In the article "How taking a 'gap year' between high school and college can improve your life" posted on "national.deseretnews.com" website the author, Celia R. Baker thinks that many parents now are worry about the cost of taking gap years. Because a lot of students decide to travel abroad to learn a new language and experience new culture which will cost a lot of money. But the truth is that there are many low or even zero-cost, service-oriented programs and organizations, like USA Gap Year Fairs that offer room and board, volunteering at a school for the deaf, clearing trails in national forests or working as a deck hand on a ship. Not only these social organizations will help students pay for their trips, but also some universities offer scholarship to help students pay for their trip. Princeton University and University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill offer scholarship for gap-year students, encouraging students to take gap years. 
Meanwhile, Celia R. Baker also points out that parents start to worry about students' safety. Since a lot of students will go traveling abroad, work in strange places, or help poor people in some undeveloped countries where public security is still a problem. According to Karl Haigler, co-author of "The Gap Year Advantage." said that It's natural for parents to be concerned about safety and there are precautions worth taking. For my opinion we can always choose to working with a reputable gap year organization that keeps students in groups with adult mentors and maintains constant communication heightens safety. Parents can also check online reviews and ask to speak with program alumni about their experiences. Parents should bear in mind that risks exist no matter where their kids are. Parents must recognize that "there are always going to be risks wherever you are. College campuses are not without risks," he said. The students we are talking about are adults that are supposed to be allowed to spread their wings. 
In the article " More U.S students taking "gap year' break" posted on NBCNEWS.COM by Tanya Mohn, she thinks that students will forget academic knowledge and skills they have gained in high school which will make students decide not to go back to school. After one year or maybe two years, students may used to gap-year life and probably forget the most of academic knowledge. What's more, it is not worthy to skip the higher education because of gap years. But according to the National Center for Education Statistics, about 90 percent returned to college within one year of the gap year and these gap year students return to college stronger self-discipline and a clear focus on their academic pursuits. These gap-year students not only have a valuable experience but also can do well in college. 
Taking gap years may cost money but we can find some low-cost gap-year programs and scholarship from universities. Taking gap years may be dangerous but we know nothing is 100% safe. Taking gap years may cause we losing the opportunity to get higher education but according to the research most of gapers came back. 
As a gap-year student, I think my one-year gap is extremely valuable to me and makes me different from other freshmen. I went to work after I graduated from high school, because I need to help my family to pay for my father's medical treatment. This experience taught me no matter what happened in my life I need to take responsibility for it as an adult. I didn't spend a lot of money during my gap year. Even I went to a new place to work, I am still safe and sound right now. At last, I went to back to school and got myself into Purdue University. 
Gap years will be the valuable experience that we will cherish for the whole life. It gives us time to think about what we really want to do in the future. Travelling gives us chance to meet new people and live different culture. Working trains our social skills, ability to handle the emergency and some other skills we may never learn from in the class. After all, whether the gap-year experience is beneficial or not depends on us. We are the only ones who feel what's going in our lives. So each one of us could make our own gap year plan. No matter what we choose to do for gap years, we need to be ready for the adventure. 
