Both entertainment and education are necessary in our daily life especially for college students like us. There is no doubt with the importance of education. However, we can't neglect the role which entertainment plays in our life. We need to relax. We need to know what is happening around us. We need to keep in touch with our friends. That means, our life will not be complete if we take away either one of them. In my previous paper, I analyzed the advantages and disadvantages of both entertainment and education; Interviewed the professor in Chinese university about the problem of managing time between these two; Synthesized the articles of others opinions about this situation which is spending too much time on recreation rather than study. In this paper, I will give my own perspective and solution for the balance of these two, which is reducing the time for relax and do helpful things which can entertain us at the same time.	 
First of all, I would like to mention that we use too much time on entertainment and some of the recreation can ruin both of our body and mind. Accrding to statistics released from the Department of Labor1, the Dept of Labor has tracked two types of activities: "Educational Activities" and "Watching television". I consult the statistics in my situation and analyzed how these two activities compared. In the year 2013, I would have spent 1 hr/day on study and 2. 6 hrs/day on watching television. That is a ratio of 1:2.6. This survey released by Department of Labor clearly shows how serious the problem is. Refering to another research published by CNET News.com stuff2, we can know that how video games hurt brain development. In the research, scientists claim that video games can only develop those parts of movement and vision but helpless to develop other parts. So we should spend less time on recreation in order to prevent from hurting our mental develpoment. 
Secondly, spending more time on education can have a significant effect on our scores. According to the research "More time spent on television and video games, less time spent on studying?" published by Inui, Ryoji Matsuoka, Makiko Nakamuro on 16 January 20143, the researchers in Japan want to find out the main determinant of studying and they have done a lot of researches for that. During these researches, they want to find out that if there is a explicit relationship between time spend on school work and the score of student. And the result is that every additional minute of the time used on study help to increase students' scores by about 0. 15 standard deviation. After considering the result of the researches, I can conclude that the time spent on study is the main factor which affects the score of study. 
What's more, we can solve the problem by attending helpful activities which can entertain us at the same time. It is easier to understand this point if we take playing basketball as an example. There is no doubt that we can relax ourselves by doing exercises like basketball; On the other hand, basketball can help us to keep physical healthy and even lose weight. In the article "Competing for an audience: Entertainment vs. Education" published by Mary Jane Jacob4, the writer pur forward an opinion that some places can be used both for entertainment and education. And she illustrates her point by providing an example and discussing the problem of museums. By visiting museums, people can receive the knowledge as well as relaxing themselves. Refered to this article, I think that we can visit some places which contain both recreational stuff and educational stuff in order to solve the problem of balancing the time between entertainment and study. 
However, someone may mention that some groups of people just makes their living by playing games and people like these should spend more time on playing games. Admittedly, These people should spend more time on playing games than study. However, they are just a little part of people. They playing games as their jobs and they don't play games mainly for entertainment like us. As the result, most people are in the totally different situation and can't spend too much time on games if they just play for recreation. 
According to the illustrations mentioned above, I can draw a conclusion about how to solve the problem of managing time between entertainment and educaion. We need to reduce the time spend on entertainment and attend more helpful activities which can relax us. This solution is only my personal opinion and is only suit for a part of people; however, I think it would be helpful more or less. 
1 http://www.bls.gov/news.release/atus.t08.htm 
2 http://news.cnet.com/2100-1040-271849.html 
3 http://www.voxeu.org/article/video-gaming-and-studying-evidence-japan 
4 http://www.maryjanejacob.org/sub_pages/writings/writing_audiences/directors_choice.html 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
