P5 d3 
4/19/16 
Chinese Calligraphy Art as an International Art 
As it is known, art and especially calligraphy art, always conveys the rich history of the culture and culture practice. Meanwhile, as it is also known, the subtlety and the obscurity are wildly served as the uniqueness of Eastern art, and the Chinese calligraphy art is not an exception. Due to this background of complicity, a debate between whether Chinese calligraphy art is an international art or not is fiercely on going. After doing researches and interviews, I'm holding a point that Chinese calligraphy art is really a universally appreciated art. And I urge for a stronger awareness for the importance of calligraphy in nowadays modern life. 
I see Chinese calligraphy as an international art for firstly, calligraphy art is no different from any other sort of art. Appreciating it is to appreciate beauty. Like painting and photographing, not knowing the story behind maybe a way for one to truly appreciate the work itself. Sometimes the story will get to interfere with one's judgment about the true quality of handwriting it along although the it may indicate the value. When a picture is poorly framed, the fact that it is not a well-taken picture in terms of appreciating photography would not be eliminated by any fancy story behind it. So as to Chinese calligraphy, without stories one may really focus on patterns and handwriting itself. In a nutshell, appreciating Chinese calligraphy is like appreciating any other kind of art, a visual feast. Sometimes what we should do in order to really feel a piece of art is to let go other interferences and be drenched into beauty of itself along. 
Besides for the reason above, another factor that accounts for Chinese calligraphy art to be an international art would be because that other culture also enjoyed a complicated form of art as well. Chinese calligraphy art is not the only system that its beauty is attributed of both structures and philosophy. Others like European calligraphy with a prolonged history ever since medieval time, the Indi scripts, fascinating Arabic scripts etc. These cultures are all embedded with astonishing calligraphy art, and though there may be different ways of interpretation, every culture is devoted into appreciating calligraphy. Therefore, I believe, calligraphy as a universally appreciated art itself definitely has some shared impact on various regions, and consequently so does Chinese calligraphy art. 
The Third reason why Chinese calligraphy art is an international art would be that all knowledge including the ability to appreciate is acquired by learning. no one is born good at appreciating, even the knowledge about the culture one grown up with is acquired by learning. In another way, it's not a matter of the cultural differences between the east or the west, it's a matter of how familiar one is to the culture. There are countless examples of success in learning a different culture and cultural practices. The easterners are learning the west culture; the westerners learn from the east, people are always learning. Cultural related courses nowadays are wildly provided in colleges and other institutions, it seems to be way easier getting access to practically mundane cultural influences than ever. 
Someone may question the universal appreciation od Chinese calligraphy by stating that as an alien to a certain cultural group, due to the lack of long-term influences of the completed cultural practices, one may never be as good as a native about cultural matters. Well, it's true that aliens may never be as good as natives, but that doesn't seem to be a problem of appreciating. While one appreciating, he is also learning. Whether one reaches a level of natives or not doesn't necessarily interferes with the process of learning. Besides, not reaching a level of natives do not indicate that one can't appreciate the beauty at a native's level since beauty is fundamentally universal. Others may raise an objection by addressing the concern that even if one might be quite familiar with certain culture, the appreciation may be interfered with other different cultural influence that one may carried himself thus misleading the original information that an art work may try to express. This concern is reasonable, yet misunderstands the true meaning of appreciating. Once the work is done and on display, the business to call it a good work or not is no longer the writer's but rather the appreciators'. There's no such thing as the so-called original information, anything shown is interpreted, by others or maybe by one oneself. Appreciating is not evaluating. The goal of appreciating is to feel the beauty and the thoughts behind a piece of art work. There's no objective right or wrong about appreciation on a subjective concept - beauty. 
Addressing these statements above has made the point straightly clear - Despite the fact that indeed the differences among cultures exist, Chinese calligraphy art has the universal appreciablility as one of its feature. In another words, Chinese calligraphy art is an international art. 
Thus, what we should do in front of a piece of art is to be emerged and let go. 
