ENGL 106i
P5d1_arp
April 11, 2016
Scope in Carbon-Neutral Construction
Greenhouse emissions have been a concern to environmentalists all around the globe. These emissions lead to a climate change and every society and culture come up with solutions to reduce such greenhouse gases. Narrowing it down to my project, Construction sector produces 36% of greenhouse gases in the industrialised countries (Zuo J. et al. 2013). This is where low carbon buildings and carbon-neutral buildings come into play. Although this is a viable solution, it lacks drivers for a change in the building industry. Researches all around the globe have come to the same conclusion (Zuo J. et al. 2013) due to the challenges and situations that occur in making such buildings. But, I believe there is a prolific amount of scope in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and carbon footprint in the construction sector.
In the interview conducted for the project, Mr. <name> suggests many possible design changes and material replacements that can lead to a low carbon construction. He has been in the construction industry for over 26 years and has constructed several Gold LEED certified buildings. Concrete can be mixed with admixtures and additives like fly ash that make its properties green and durable. Concrete also has reusable properties that make it green. It can be used in demo buildings, can be ground and used as aggregate, can be put in the base of roads etc. (Rahil Nandu. 2016). LEED is an organization that certifies and rates buildings according to its green properties. According to LEED, material procurement is to be done within a range of 200 miles to 300 miles to reduce transport emissions. But, LEED is only on the verge of making green buildings. It yet has to dig deeper into the hole to enforce more participation in making low carbon structures (Rahil Nandu. 2016). Concerning electricity and energy use, there are simple but effective methods to keep the energy consumption down. Windows and skylights can be introduced in the design to allow sunlight to penetrate. Blinds and louvers can be fitted to adjust the amount of sunlight penetration (Rahil Nandu. 2016). For water, several local water filtration plants can be set up in the project itself where grey water can be used for irrigation (Rahil Nandu. 2016). Also, plantations on the roof can be done to keep the building cool and absorb the gamma radiations from the sun (Rahil Nandu. 2016).
All these things can be done but the government is not pushing the construction firms hard enough to employ such measures. The drivers for change can only come about when people realize how severely the climate has changed over years but it is too late to do anything or when someone or a group of people realize this beforehand and persuade to bring about the change. This 'group of people' has to be the government or some kind of organization, that is powerful enough, to bring about a change. As Mr. <name> said in the interview, it has to be the government leading the way to reach to such optimal construction (Rahil Nandu. 2016).
To prove my point that there is an urgent need and a substantial scope in carbon-neutral construction, let's look at the 'Pixel Building' that is a benchmark and a successful effort in making a carbon-neutral structure. It is located in Melbourne, Australia. The engineers and architects faced many challenges but the knowledge and experience in construction was the key that took them to the road of victory. Like LEED, Environmental Sustainable Development (ESD) and Green Star Assessment were major organizations to help them in selecting materials. In an interview conducted for the research, the interviewee mentioned, "carbon-neutrality can be linked with Green Star Assessment" which indicated that this organization in Australia is very well developing and enforcing carbon-neutral construction (Zuo J. et al. 2013). The firm specifically designed a substitute for concrete and named it "Pixelcrete". 95% of the timber and other items like piping, flooring etc. were reused from other buildings. Many integrated engineering systems like smart windows, sun shading systems, vacuum toilet, gas-filtered absorption chambers were incorporated to reduce carbon footprint (Zuo J. et al. 2013). Renewable energy systems like wind turbines and photovoltaic panels for power generation, anaerobic digestion system for the building's black waste etc. were used to reduce the carbon-footprint (Zuo J. et al. 2013). All these and others were the most significant measures incorporated in the building and design to counterbalance the carbon emissions.
All these solutions and a real life example are a wakeup call for all other firms around the globe to start working towards carbon-neutral construction. Even though there are not many incentives and drivers for change now in terms of profit, cost and efficiency, there will always be the incentive of sustainable development that is required so that our children can live a better and a quality life. Thus to reiterate my argument that even though there are several challenges and lack of incentives, there is a brilliant scope in the construction industry to reduce the greenhouse gases and elude carbon-footprint and someone has to take a step towards the broader and brighter future.
2
