The Questionable Efficacy of Standardized Testing 
	Standardized testing refers to any form of testing that is administrated and graded in a consistent way, intended to measure the achievement of students objectively. One of the most common examples of standardized tests is the college entrance exam, such as Gaokao in China, and the SAT and ACT in the United States. Although the use of standardized testing is very popular in many countries, the efficacy of standardized testing has been debatable. Many people believe that standardized testing is ineffective measure of academic achievements, being a waste of money and resources. 
	Firstly, standardized testing fails to reflect the knowledge, skills or abilities that students have acquired. The common standardized tests that we know, whether state-funded exams like the PARCC test or commercial exams like the SAT, are mainly made up of multiple choice questions ("Multiple-Choice Tests", 2007). While doing multiple choice questions, students have to pick the best answer from four or five given selections. They do not have freedom to generate an answer nor justify their choice. It is clear that they have to think, calculate, or link to existing knowledge to figure out the right answer; however, the abilities to conduct other kinds of cognitive operations such as sorting out information and reflecting on given information are not evaluated (Kohn, 1999, p. 84). Usually, there is only a small portion or none of exams containing free response questions in standardized tests. Unfortunately, these free response questions also have limitations. They are graded by graders with given rubrics or grading guidelines, which could be biased and less effective, comparing to grade scan sheets by machines ("Hidden Curriculum", 2014). 
Some people may claim that standardized testing does evaluate the critical thinking and mathematical skills objectively. While in fact, the evaluation was superficial. According to Alfie Kohn, an American lecturer and author that has expertise in education, there is a correlation between high standardized test scores and relatively shallow thinking. Under time pressure, students use shortcuts to eliminate the wrong answers and attempt to get the right answer as quickly as possible without actually thinking about how to solve the problem, or understand the given article thoroughly (Harris, Harris & Smith, 2012). Unfortunately, these behaviors are encouraged and rewarded by standardized testing. 
	Secondly, standard testing is not as objective as the proponents of standardized testing claim to be. Equivalent content does not automatically equal to a fair test. There are factors that might undermine the objectivity of standardized testing. For example, test takers might have different ways of thinking due to different cultural backgrounds. However, agencies like College Board that make the tests are still in the process of taking consideration of culture differences. Students from countries outside the U.S. might not be able to score as well as American students on exams like the SAT. From another perspective, cultural bias also results in hypercorrection. Sonia Sotamayor, who is the first Latina Supreme Court Judge, acknowledged that the cultural bias was "built into testing", and considered herself as "a product of affirmative action". She got lower standardized test scores then many of her classmates, but was still admitted into Yale and Princeton due to her ethnicity, since Hispanics has been considered unprivileged in education (Savage, 2009). Such cases showed that standardized testing cannot be used as an objective evaluation benchmark for students. 
	Thirdly, standardized testing is extremely costly for both the public and the students, and the efficacy of standardized testing is not worth the high price. According to the research conducted by Matthew M. Chingos, a Senior Fellow at the Urban Institute that specializes in education, 45 states in total spend about $669 million annually on testing (Chingos, 2012). Undoubtedly, the money must come from tax payers. The public is paying a really high price for testing the achievements of students, which is still a debatable statement. Moreover, standardized tests such as ACT and SAT have become an expense for many high school students. An economist, Richard Phelps, believes that standardized testing is cost-effective, claiming that prices charged for commercial standardized tests like the SAT, ACT and AP are "ranging from $20 to $70 per student". In fact, the price of one AP exam might exceed 100 dollars since the assigned schools that host the exams have the say in price, speaking from personal experiences. 
Despite that, Phelps forgets to consider the humanity part of standardized testing. Many students would take the SAT or ACT several times to boost their scores. It is also common that high school students would take both the SAT and ACT to see which one is the better fit. Furthermore, multiple AP tests and SAT subject tests are necessary for students to take because some colleges require these scores as well as the SAT or ACT. Thus, some students might have to spend several hundred dollars on numerous standardized tests in order to be a qualified candidate for the universities of their choice. Also, the education experience of students is condensed to series of tests that evaluate their ability to select one answer from given selections, with much less emphasis on evaluating about extended thinking. Standardized testing is not worth this high cost. 
	Overall, the standardized testing has more disadvantages than advantages. The concept itself is deficient or not able to be testified properly. Even though the name suggests fairness, standardized testing is often unfair and biased towards certain groups of individuals. These students might not get the opportunities that others would get and their rights are being jeopardized. In addition, the cost of standardized testing is huge, not only for the states, but also for students. It is not worthy to have such expense because of standardized testing. 
