Internship program have good impact on international students' future career 
I have done long research on international students (IS) in internships. Internships do affect IS in different aspects, such as work experience, interaction with different people and adaptability in new environment. Overall, in my opinion, joining in an internship program in summer is beneficial to international students' future career. 
First of all, internships give IS a unique work experience. The reason why IS study in a foreign country is to seek a competitive experience compared to other students. Internships properly meet their needs. An outstanding internship experience is highly valued and appreciated. When interviewing Cher Yazvac, the director of CCO (Career for Center Opportunity), she stated that internships are one of a best kind of experience. This experience not only help practice IS working ability, but also show companies that they are competent on jobs (Yazvac). This was proved by Smith's article. Data shows that students with internship experience have a higher rate on getting hired by employers. (Smith). It definitely benefit IS' future career. 
Secondly, internships let IS practice their skill of interaction with different people. Through Lee's research, lots of international psychology students have difficulty when communicate with native students or students from different countries. One main reason is the language barrier, and culture difference is another one. These difficulties will result in communication barrier with patients, so that negatively affect students' career (Lee). When IS work as a part of team in internships, they have to talk and show their opinion with teammates, which practice their communication ability. Besides, IS should have a good communication with school coordinators and employers. Hong Kong students' research states that most students agree that having a good coordination with schools and employers is a part of their expectation to internships (Lam and Ching 344). Although this expectation is not totally met according to the survey, internship indeed provide students a chance to practice communicating with school director and working authorities. 
Last but not the least, internships help IS more easily fit in different work environment. "Employers. want to make sure that the student will be a good fit for their organization." (Smith) Students who get used to study environment cannot easily adapt working environment after graduation. However, internship expose IS in a new work environment. Who participate in internships has the chance to practice so that they can work efficiently when joining in work. In the interview program, Ms. Cher Yazvac straightforwardly said, "Students start to produce real thing for the world, which gain practical experience and help them fit better in working environment." (Yazvac) Also, three students did a research and wrote in their paper about this. Most students interviewed in their study were saying that they first felt hard when working in internship with others. But after a few weeks, they get used to it and after working, they felt internship helps a lot (Ruhanen, Robinson and Breakey, 3). 
Some students may have different opinions. Some students may state that internships avoid them go back to their hometown. Others may say that internships sometimes do not meet students' expectation. However, gaining such a precious experience is enough for students to make some sacrifice. For the second one, "No pain no gain", if ones never work in an internship, they will never know whether it will meet their expectation. Ones should at least try to work in an internship. 
Overall, internship programs contribute greatly to international students' career. IS should try to apply one when they are studying abroad. 
Citation 
Lam, Terry and Larry Ching. "An exploratory study of an internship program: The case of Hong Kong students." International Journal of Hospitality Management 26 (2007): 336-351. docement. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278431906000028>. 
Lee, Kin Cheung (George). "Training and Educating International Students in Professional Psychology:." Training and Education in Professional Psychology (2013): 64-66. 
Ruhanen, Lisa, Richard Robinson and Noreen Breakey. "A foreign assignment: Internships and international students." Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Management 20 (2013): 1-4. docement. 6 November 2014. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1447677013000065>. 
Smith, Jacquelyn. Internships May Be The Easiest Way To A Job In 2013. 6 12 2012. 8 12 2014. <http://www.forbes.com/sites/jacquelynsmith/2012/12/06/internships-may-be-the-easiest-way-to-a-job-in-2013/>. 
Yazvac, Cher. IS in internship Guangheng Wu. 25 10 2104. 
Guangheng 3 
