Entrepreneurship 
Nowadays, with the developing of economy, more and more people are likely to pursue earning more by launching business. People have the misunderstanding that the key factors of launching successful business are not as hard as entrepreneurs describe. Entrepreneurs may succeed only if they are equipped with valuable opportunity and a large quantity of capital. Nevertheless, launching successful business requires much more than what people think. Although it is argued that successful entrepreneurs are supposed to drop from college in order to start business, business would be much more profitable to be started after entrepreneur taking tertiary education for several reasons, of which making friends with talented people, accurately analyzing feasibility, writing an inspiring business plan and trust-worthy are evident. 
The first reason is that people who receive education in college will have more chances to meet with talent people who can offer useful idea and ability to the future entrepreneurs. It is too difficult for people to just launch a business by themselves, and thus they tend to cooperate with the people who have similar background, interests and goal to start a business or new venture. Take the Bench Prep Company for example. The founders, Ashish Rangnekar and Ujjwal Gupta both took GMAT test and have difficulty in reviewing test. They met in Penn State University. Realizing this is a great opportunity due to their similar education backgrounds, they developed their GMAT preparation app. This app reached a great success and made millions of profit(70-71). Attending college offered them a chance to meet each other and implementing their ability and talent which they learn from college into their business. There is no denying that finding appropriate partners is crucial for developing successful business. 
The second reason is that individuals who have tertiary education can accurately analyze the feasibility of a business. Feasibility analyses assess a potential business but not a product or service idea, and it can avoid falling into the "everything about my opportunity is wonder" mode(79-80). The founders need professional knowledge which they learned from college to analyze the feasibility of their business carefully. They may also apply the classical examples which professors illustrated into their realistic operation. Compared with people who did not attend college, college students did a lot of research and analyzed data, so they are experienced and skilled to do feasibility analysis, and thus they have higher chance of winning in the business. What's more, some entrepreneurs are anxious to write business plan without testing the feasibility of their business ideas. People without college education tend to skip this step, because some of them, without attending business class, do not even know there is a step of feasibility analysis. Without doing so, the risk of failure is much higher. 
The third reason is that well-educated people can write better business plan. Business plan is really important. First, writing a business plan is conducive to systematically considering the business which they want to launch and develop a concrete blueprint. Besides, writing business plan contribute directly to design a successful selling document for a company which just been launched. The feat of a successful selling document is conducive to persuade people like angel investors, potential partners who will produce significant impact on business. People with college education are usually more skilled in writing, due to the fact that they have been practiced and learned a lot by taking classes like English and Communication. Therefore their business plans are trend to be more attractive, well-organized and understandable than people who did not go to college. With a promising business plan, entrepreneur can get more money from venture investment, trusts and helps from angel investors. Furthermore, executive of the company can follow the business plan running business consistently. 
Moreover, the founders who have college degree will get the trust from their clients easier. The diploma is more trustworthy than just describing what you know or what you bring to your clients. Take the interview with a successful entrepreneur, Mike Cassidy, as an example. He mentioned "When I hired people, I definitely would prefer to choose the candidates who have college degrees." There is a universal knowledge that the college diploma is a certification of the excellent learning ability, outstanding reaching out skill and the brilliant comprehensive thought. Although there are some extreme cases that people who drop from college still succeed in their business, but it's not a common case and it may takes a much longer time for them to get success. 
To sum up, because attending college can help entrepreneurs find outstanding partners, analyze business profoundly and accurately, design comprehensive and promising business plan, gain trust from investors, partners and employees, people who graduated from college have better foundation and higher start point than people who did not attend college, and thus entrepreneurs with college degree have higher chance of making more profit than people who drop from college. 
