Argumentative Paper, Final Draft
4/22/2016
The Production and using of Nitrogen Fixation Fertilizer: Biological or Industrial
	For thousands years, human have known how to utilize fertilizer for high yield of agricultural production. Babylonians, Egyptians, Early Germans and Romans are all recorded as using minerals and manures to enhance the productivity of their farms. Today, the most efficient and widely-used kind of fertilizer is nitrogen fixation fertilizer. It is extremely important for today's global agriculture industry. From "Nitrogen Fixation" written by Richard Robinson, published on Encyclopedia.com in 2002, we can see that the modern agriculture systems depend on nitrogen fixation by alfalfa, clover, and most importantly, nitrogen fixation fertilizers. There are two kinds of nitrogen fixation fertilizer, which are biological nitrogen fixation fertilizer ("BNFF" for short) and industrial nitrogen fixation fertilizer ("INFF" for short). A lot of controversies has been going on about the topic of which is the better nitrogen fixation fertilizer to be produced and used on farmland. Industrial or biological? My statement is that both these two kinds of nitrogen fixation fertilizer are important and necessary for agricultural production. In this argumentative paper, I want to talk about my understanding of nitrogen fixation fertilizer.
BNFF is naturally produced by nitrogen fixation. The process of nitrogen fixation is a part of nitrogen cycle. Nitrogen cycle is a process that is carried out through both biological and physical processes. In the article "The Nitrogen Cycle: of Microbes and Men" by John Arthur Harrison (2003), in nitrogen fixation, the author showed that nitrogen uptakes through organismal growth. In nitrogen cycle, the nitrogen in atmosphere cannot be used directly, the nitrogen in atmosphere can only be absorbed and utilized by plants after being processed through nitrogen fixation. In this nitrogen cycle, after the animals eat the plants, a part of the protein is broken down by animals' digestive system, and nitrogenous wastes like carbamide are produced in this process. And then, along with the nitrogenous substances in plant and animal remains, these nitrogenous wastes will be broken down by microorganisms in the soil and forms ammonia (NH4+). By the digestion of bacteria in soil, the ammonia is transformed into nitrate (NO3-) that can be absorbed and utilized by plants. At the condition of oxygen (O2) deficiency, the nitrate (NO3-) can be transformed into nitrite (NO2-) by the bacteria in soil, then transforms into gaseous nitrogen and returns to the atmosphere. This process that nitrogen being converted between its various chemical forms is called nitrogen cycle. And BNFF is the product of this process, it is a great fertilizer source to be utilized for agricultural production.
	Different from BNFF, INFF is a kind of artificial nitrogen fixation fertilizer. With the help of today's fertilizer producing technology, we can produce industrial nitrogen fixation fertilizer in a chemical way which requires high temperature and pressure, also metallic iron as catalyst. Tom Philpot's "A Brief History of Our Deadly Addiction to Nitrogen Fertilizer" provided us the information that at the end of 19th century, the fertilizer industry pushed the development of global agriculture. As the increasing of population along with the development of industry and the military's demand, artificial nitrogen fixation became one of the most important topic all over the world at that time. July 2nd, 1909, Germany physicist and Chemist Fritz Haber used the temperature of 400 and the pressure of 200 atmos, and metallic iron as the catalyst, successfully made the artificial nitrogen fixation for the first over the world. This artificial nitrogen fixation is called the industrial nitrogen fixation, which is utilized to produce INFF. At that time, industrial nitrogen fixation was a great innovation, this technology played an important role in global agriculture, met the demand for both industry and military.
	In the controversies about which nitrogen fixation fertilizer is better for using, some people hold the statement that BNFF is better than INFF for using in agricultural production due to following reasons that I have concluded:
1. Low cost
The cost of producing INFF is very high, the production of this kind of fertilizer takes a great amount of energy to get high pressure and temperature, this is also why the change of INFF price is so closely tied to the change of fuel price. Instead of being produced in a chemical way, BNFF is produced by nitrogenase catalysis in normal pressure and temperature, transforms nitrogen molecule into ammonia that can be absorbed and utilized by plants. According to "The Economic Impact of Future Biological Nitrogen Fixation Technologies" written by Loren W. Tauer (1989), although natural nitrogen fixation consumes energy, the amount of energy is all provided by the plant by utilizing photosynthesis. This means that biological nitrogen fixation fertilizer is a true natural fertilizer, the cost of producing this fertilizer is nearly zero. The cost of producing fertilizer by processing biological nitrogen fixation is much lower than by processing industrial nitrogen fixation.
2. High yield
BNFF also has a higher efficiency on increasing the crop yield than INFF does. For example, the seed treatment with rhizobium leguminosarum is a use of BNFF. H. C. Huang and R. S. Erickson wrote "Effect of Seed Treatment with Rhizobium Leguminosarum on Pythium Damping-off, Seedling Height, Root Nodulation, Root Biomass, Shoot Biomass, and Seed Yield of Pea and Lentil", published by "Journal of Phytopathology", in January 2007, the article shows us that after using the seed treatments with rhizobium leguminosarum in pea, there has been a significant increase in seed increase of pea (31-37). Experiments demonstrated that in same condition, the pulse which be treated with rhizobium leguminosarum can increase production by 10 to 20 percent.
3. High absorbing ratio
When INFF be used in cropland, only a little amount of the fertilizer will be absorbed by the crops, and the rest part will become gas or be washed away by water, and may cause water pollution <name> <name> personal communication, March 3, 2016). Comparing to INFF, BNFF has a great advantage on absorbing ratio. Most part of biological nitrogen fixation fertilizer can be absorbed by crops directly. The rest part can damp off along with root nodule, and be stored in soil for later use <name> <name> personal communication, March 3, 2016). And therefore, BNFF's high absorbing ratio gives BNFF higher efficiency comparing to INFF.
4. No pollution
From the interview with Dr. <name> <name> I got to know that the using of INFF is harmful to the environment and ecosystem (personal communication, March 3, 2016). Because of the low absorbing ration of INFF, a large amount of INFF has been washed away by water into underwater, rivers and ocean, and cause terrible water pollution <name> <name> personal communication, March 3, 2016). According to "Biological Nitrogen Fixation" written by Stephen C. Wagner, published on Nature Education, in 2011, we can see that the use of industrial produced nitrogen fertilizer has led to worldwide, ecological problem, such as the formation of coastal dead zones. Most nitrogenous fertilizer will transform into nitric nitrogen during the using. This can cause nitrate pollution in rivulet, underground water and the ocean. Also, the INFF that used in soil releases nitrogen by denitrification, this amount of nitrogen will disturb the natural nitrogen cycle. Because of BNFF's high absorbing ratio and the nature of being stored in soil, BNFF has the advantage of not causing any environmental pollution, and this advantage is exactly what we need nowadays <name> <name> personal communication, March 3, 2016).
By looking at the advantages of BNFF after comparing to INFF, we can see that BNFF take absolute advantages. However, I believe that BNFF and INFF are both necessary for agricultural production and only managing both of them well can make the highest yield. I have such statement because of the following reasons:
1. Increasing Yield
Dr. <name> mentioned that although INFF is not as efficient as BNFF, it increases crop yield for a considerable amount (personal communication, March 3, 2016). Comparing to traditional fertilizers, the advantage of INFF is obvious. It has a higher efficiency on increasing the crop yield and the production per human worker. According to Berg J. M, Tymoczko J. L, Stryer L.'s "Nitrogen Fixation: Microorganisms Use ATP and a Powerful Reductant to Reduce Atmospheric Nitrogen to Ammonia" published by "W. H Freeman and Company", INFF can efficiently increase crop yield, it increases a much larger amount of crop than traditional kinds of fertilizer do.
2. Being Manageable
BNFF is hard to be managed, because it is in the soil, so it is also not able to be collect for later use. If the farmers want to use more fertilizer on a certain spot, they cannot only rely on BNFF that is left in the soil from the previous season on this field. According to the information Dr. <name> offered in the interview, INFF is manageable for agricultural works (personal communication, March 3, 2016). Comparing to use BNFF, using INFF can allow the farmers to put the fertilizer exactly where they want and how much they want. This means that the farmers can control the amount of this kind of fertilizer they put into the soil by analyzing the specific situation of a field and managing the fertilizer.
Because of INFF's nature of being manageable, Dr. <name> emphasized that just because that BNFF does not have the ability to be collected and managed, the use of INFF is extremely important and necessary (personal communication, March 3, 2016). I believe that INFF is the key to fertilizer and field management. The kind of fertilizer farmers use depends on the kind of crop farmers grow on the field. For example, on one field, the farmers grew beans last year, if this year the farmer still grows beans, the BNFF that was left in the soil from last year is enough for this year's beans to use. However, if the farmer wants to grow corns on this field this year, the BNFF will not be enough for the corns to use, and as a result, the farmer would need to apply amount of INFF for the corns to use.
	I believe that for higher yield, we need both industrial and biological nitrogen fixation fertilizer. And I am sure that in order to increase crop yield, managing the use of nitrogen fixation fertilizer and keeping the balance between using nitrogen fixation fertilizer and protecting the environment will be today's most important and difficult mission for agronomists and farmers to accomplish.
