P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16th, 2015 
The Electronic Books Should be Promoted in Campus 
Since the development of technology, people are able to have mobile computers and they can read text though their laptop and tablet. Electronic books, an evolutionary idea from about ten years ago, have become feasible, bringing a probability that carrying over thousands books in pocket. Thus, for students' convenience, universities should consider to promote electronic textbooks for not only reducing the purchase on textbooks but also the weight on shoulders. 
Tuition and resident fee are not only thing to be considered. According to The College Board, the annual cost of textbooks and other course materials for a four-year college student is about one thousand and two hundred dollars. Take me as an example, I spend six hundred dollar five hundred dollars to buy textbooks last semester. A thousand dollars are much smaller than tuition but the purchase of books does increase the cost of going to colleges, making the financial situation worse for students who have educational loan. Moreover, textbooks priced in hundreds dollars would become worthless after finishing courses unless students sold to other who need. Even though renting or buying used books for discounted price is an option, there is still a possibility that the supply is not able to satisfy the demand. Comparatively, without the concern of material and printing, electronic textbooks take an advantage in both price and supplement. 
Some people argue that several market facts, such as the revenue, influence the price of electronic books and they are sold with a little discount. For instant, a books priced a hundred and fifty dollars only have a thirty-dollar cut off in electronic. Universities take their responsibility by getting involve the electronic books project. Purdue Universities is one of the first universities which shows its interest on electronic books and sold textbooks online with Amazon, a famous electronic commerce company. What is more, Purdue recently has a trial project about electronic books call "The e Text Pilot". The e Text Pilots sells electronic textbooks in averagely twenty dollars and provides assistance to certain instructors and courses that advocate the use of electronic books. 
Electronic books take advantage besides the price. A normal textbook often weights in several pounds. Many students complain they are tired of take a help bag full of books. In fact, they only need to read a few content in books every time, which means they waste their energy on carrying useless papers all the day. Additionally, paper books also need lots of space for storage, usually a bookshelf or boxes. Although some have suggested to separate cumbersome books in parts to sell, it seems to have a lot trouble on buying a large number of books. Therefore, an electronic reading devices can be the best solution. Light and small as a magazine, a reading devices usually are able to store overs thousand books in TXT format or hundreds in PDF format. People can put devices wherever they want-bags, pockets or hands. Except certain reading devices, people still can read from their tablet, laptop or even cellphones. In addition, thanks to the emerging display technology, some devices have the feature that text on the screen seems to like reading paper books. 
Bringing portability, reading devices give people convenience with concern. Some people argue that using electronic devices would make students distract from class when they pay their attention on tapping and scrolling, let alone reading novel in class. For an instructor, it is impossible to keep eyes on every students' behavior while teaching. Using such reading devices could affect the class efficiency. I admit that student would not always stay focus on class, but when I was in class, most of my behavior is listening to instructor, taking notes and trying to understand the class content. I do not have to read textbooks. Normally, reading tasks are done before class. Thus, using devices perhaps have influence on class. It still depends on how students use the devices. 
Nowadays, many people have shown their will for a change on heavy and expensive textbooks. In the age of information technology, efficiency has already become on crucial measurement of competitive power. Electronic books save not only money but also time for students, bring a lager possibility to succeed. 
