P5d3_arp 
April 25th 
The Argumentation On "Whether Marco Polo have been to China" 
About seven hundred years ago, Marco Polo became the first European who traveled to Ancient China for trade. When him came back to Europe, he published a book to introduce his experience in ancient China to European people. The book is known as "Marco Polo's journey in China", which caused a dramatic impact to the society of Europe. In the book, Marco Polo successfully depicted a broad image on the amazing civilization of China. However, most of the details he provides in the book are somehow exaggerating. For example, he said that imperial palaces in China are entirely made of gold and silver. He also implied in his book that both Chinese male and female wore Silk clothes on the street every day. Therefore, his book remained as a controversial work through the history. The opponents state that Marco Polo fabricated his work and he became famous by cheating the people. They start to question the work of Marco Polo for several aspects. I found that these aspects are mostly related to Chinese customs. The following four items are missing in Marco Polo's book; The great wall, Chinese writing system, bound foot of woman and the Chinese language. 
First of all, I started to doubt that the book of Marco Polo was not original work. Even though that Marco polo provided massive details in his book to introduce China, not much of these descriptions are guaranteed to be the first-hand source. After reading the research material about Marco Polo, I also found that more and more researchers start to doubt the credibility of Marco Polo. Francis Wood is one of famous researchers who proposed negative opinion toward Marco Polo's work. According to her belief, Marco Polo never went to China in history. He completed his book based on the source from other people. Here is the statement. "In a passage certain to raise the eyebrows of the most ardent Polo defenders, she states her belief that the Venetian never traveled beyond the Black Sea, and that his book is based on family stories and printed secondary material from other authors." (Journal of World history 1999 220-223). 
In addition to that, Marco Polo didn't provide any description about great wall in his book. According to the history, however, he should be supposed to note the Chinese great wall. The great wall already existed for centuries before Marco Polo came to China. A Huge number of ancient Chinese great wall Relics was Found in central Asia or northern China, and they are even remarkable in modern era. Here is the quote. "Despite the lack of literary reference, my feeling is that the survival of relics & constructions in the Central Asian deserts suggests that there might have been quite a lot of Great Wall extant in those areas at the time." (Did Marco Polo go to China p-296 Frances W). However, the defenders of Marco Polo would argue that the great wall was not as impressive as it is today. 
Another suspicious fact is that Marco Polo didn't provide any introduction on Chinese writing system. It is true that Marco Polo didn't have to learn Chinese writing while he was living with Mongols in China. Nonetheless, this fact doesn't mean that Marco had no chance to observe Chinese writing by himself. In the contrast, Marco should be able to notice Chinese writing system for many times. For instance, Marco Polo introduced the Chinese paper money in his book. He provides all the descriptions for the paper money except the Chinese words onside. Even though that he was not well-educated people, he should notice the unique writing order of the Chinese words. 
The next suspicious point is that Marco Polo didn't record any details about "bound foot" in his entire book. The bound foot was a custom practiced by women in ancient China. By practicing this custom, the Chinese women would prevent their feet from growing. Most of historians believe that this custom originates from upper class in China in 12th century. The women who didn't bound their foot will not be accepted by their future husband. If Marco polo did come to China in 13th century, therefore, he should notice this custom. Especially for a government official who was in charge of a Chinese city for several years. 
The last suspicious point is that Marco never use Chinese language to label the cities in his book. Even though that the official language was not Chinese in Yuan dynasty, all the major cities should have their own original Chinese names. For example, Yang Zhou was one of the Chinese cities that once were visited by Marco Polo. As a governor of Yang Zhou, Marco labeled the city in Turkish or Persian language rather than Chinese in his book. I found it conspicuous that a foreign merchant who claimed to live in China for seventeen years and was not capable of using Chinese at all. Here is the statement from a researcher. "One of the most interesting points she makes in this chapter is that Marco Polo made extensive use of Persian, Arabic, and Turkish proper names to describe Mongol and Chinese people and places, rather than using equivalent Chinese or Mongol terms." (Journal of world history 1999 220-223) 
Conclusion 
Due to the five conspicuous points I proposed above, it is inadequate to draw the conclusion that Marco Polo have been to China. 
Reference 
Frances W. (2010); Did Marco Polo go to China; Asian Affairs (3) 296-304 
Bounder C. (1999); Did Marco Polo go to China; journals of World history (10) 220-223 
2 
