Big Data, a struggling way to the future 
	To make every piece of data that seemed innocuous do make difference, Big Data theory was created and brought to our daily life years ago. These days, the word Big Data appears more and more often on major press, not because its successful use and great benefit, but because it is being considered as the one that causes many privacy problems. While it is true that Big Data has some bad effects, people should not ignore the progress it has made and understand that those bad effects can be eliminated. Therefore, though Big Data may have caused several privacy problems, it is still worth being used and developed instead of being resisted. 
	Considering the news and articles about bad issues triggered by Big Data, it is understandable that many people do not accept the use of Big Data. There are several reasons behind. The major of them are about unrestricted collection of data as the cause of leaking of privacy (Dwoskin, 2012), long and useless privacy terms from service providers and too many bad uses of Big Data that trigger a lot of social problems. Although there are holes and problems in Big Data, I still insist on protecting and developing it instead of totaling resisting it and I will show that those reasons are not meaningful. 
	A major point against Big Data is about the privacy issues it has caused. Unleashing Innovation: Big Data (A Special Report), an article by Elizabeth Dwoskin, provides information that a group of people, from teacher, scientist to engineer, businessman, complained that Big Data invaded their privacy without being restricted and many people thought that Big Data illegally disclosed their personal things without their consent. Actually, their thoughts are not accurate because their definition of privacy is not correct. In different areas and cases, law defines privacy in various ways. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), are good examples. In the field of education, FERPA's definition of private data only includes student education records, while in the field of personal health, HIPAA's definition only includes personal health records and information. The truth is that only a small part of what people consider as private data is actually private data. Different people have different thought on privacy. Some may think that only the bank number matters while others may think that private data should include name, location, political standing and so on. In fact, those are not private data but things that people do not want to share. In addition, when people by themselves provide information to service providers as well as click the READ button at the end of the privacy terms, it is legally considered that they admit the potential analysis or disclosure of the information. Therefore, the reason of the unexpected leaking of data is that users do not pay enough attention to their control of the data. Consider the coupon or discount policies in the area of retailers. Shoppers that find a discount policy attractive and therefore spend a lot money buying goods may finally realize that the discount policy fools them and makes them spend more money than they. However, usually they won't resist the existence of such discount because they admit that it is their carelessness that causes the problem. It is same for a lot of issues that is seemingly caused by Big Data. The actual reason is often users' careless behaviors instead of Big Data. 
	Another thing that people often complain is the long and unreadable privacy terms from service providers. It is true that some privacy terms, from some companies and organizations, are not easy for ordinary people to read but it doesn't mean that it is meaningless and not worth reading. First, a privacy term tells the user what data the service will collect and how the data will be used. Privacy term is actually the most effective way to know the future use of the data and also an important key for user to protect their legal rights concerning their data (Pavolotsky, 2013). Those who don't care about the terms but still blame the providers for their behaviors should be blamed of instead. Second, though there are some privacy terms that are too long and not clear, good ones are politely showing up. The mobile application, Snapchat, holds a good example of a functional privacy term. The privacy term of Snapchat is not too long to read and expresses the meaning clearly as well as provides users several choices between total disclosure and total privacy. The point is that yet a lot companies hold irrational privacy terms, good privacy terms is coming in a gradual way. More and more people and organizations have already started to work on the development of privacy terms and also computer scientists are discussing about the definition of a good and functional privacy term these days. Thus, Big Data and related things are still being developed and are producing more and more benefits, so I believe that the problems about privacy terms will be solved sooner or later. 
	It is true that there exist some bad uses of Big Data that do harm to the society, but what we should eliminate are not Big Data itself but the bad uses of it. In face, many people are actually doing so. According to Dr. [name] , a professor of [department] in Purdue University, the major cause of the existence of bad effects of Big Data is called data aggregation (personal communication, [date] , 2015). Any individual data may be innocuous but the problem shows up when too many of such pieces of data are put together, the process of which is called data aggregation. Dr. [name] gave me an simple example of the potential result of unlimited data aggregation. If someone gets a person's name, SSN, the date of birth and the address, he can apply for a credit in that person's name because there is no more authentication required. But what is really happening is that such data cannot be gathered by one person or organization due to the laws that help protect privacy, like FERPA and HIPAA. Furthermore, technical solutions also contribute. Holomorphic Encryption, a way of encryption that makes the data computable in the form of cipher text. What it does is to make users' data processable to service providers but not accessible. In other words, it will prevent unrestricted transmission of users' data so if an organization get the data you provide through this way, they can only help process your data but not able to track you or to give this data to other organizations. There are other solutions that have already been taken into use or are still being developed. So it is imaginable that in the future, data will be protected and privacy will not be invaded any more. 
	In general, Big Data has already made huge difference in human culture. Though it has some outcomes that we do not expect, the progress it has made and the great benefits it has produced cannot be overlooked. People should understand that sometimes Big Data is not the one that causes the problem and when it is, what we should do is to find a solution and make it become better. 
