Argumentative Assignment 
Final Draft 4/22/2016	 
The importance of sleeping 
Sleeping plays an important role in our lives because good sleeping is essential for an individual's mental health and physical health. In my high school, I began to learn several subjects at the same time which made me stressed. I had to do a lot of homework and prepare my exams until midnight. By this way, I could not control my routine time schedule to sleep. Sleeping late was harmful for me because it seriously affected my daily performance and caused insomnia. For a long time, my grades were falling behind with my classmates and my mood was very depressed. I decided to take care about my health. To find out the relationship between sleeping pattern and individual's daily performance, I did both secondary research on articles and primary research through interviewing Katherine H. Default, a senior assistant director in Student Academic Success Center of Purdue. After I have done so much research, I think irregular sleeping may lead to visible and invisible effects on students' daily life, such as body temperature, mood, sleeping quality, even students' academic performances. I will use some data and examples to illustrate my own views. 
The first point we need to talk about is that irregular sleeping will cause invisible results. Irregular sleeping is a risk factor to get illness. For example, in winter, individuals are more easily to catch a cold or have a fever because irregular sleeping might have a significant negative effect on their immune systems. Besides, as Michael H. Bonnet indicates in his research, the body temperature will be much higher with the irregular sleeping schedule compared to the results of regular patterns. Irregular sleeping is also a factor that contributes to high blood pressure, according to Kristen Hedger Archbold and Monica M. Vasquez. In their essay, "Effect of Sleep Patterns and Obesity on increase in Blood Pressure in a 5-Year Period: Report form Tucson Children's Assessment of Sleep Apnea Study," they find that a relation between sleeping quality and prehypertension in childhood and adolescence since "the decreasing the sleeping time in a 5-year period elevates SBP not DBP in the presence of an increasing BMI" (29). Computer, cell phone, social affairs take over person's night that will disorder people time schedule. The research supports my opinion about irregular sleeping will lead to invisible healthy effect. 
	However, the opinions on the relation between academic performance and sleeping pattern are divided. Some people insist that there is no direct relationship between class performance and sleeping pattern. When I interviewed with Katherine H. Default, she mentioned that GPA reflects students' academic performance averaged over all the courses by making an evaluation based on attendance, homework, quiz and exams. However, the sleeping pattern may only affect the attendance. Students can take control of the daily pattern in their favorite way since the schedule of the classes is flexible. In other words, the effect of sleeping pattern on academics could be avoided. 
In my opinion, good sleeping quality is beneficial for students because it can refresh students' brain and reduce the pressure of learning. Students can concentrate on the content of class and pay attention on homework. Students also get attendance points that help them improve the evaluation of GPA. Learning efficiency is an important method to get a higher GPA Good sleeping quality refreshes our brain and brings us energy so that we can study more effectively. 
All in all, the research about the article and interview with Katherine H. Default, a senior assistant director in Student Academic Success Center of Purdue helped me to know the the relationship between sleeping pattern and individual's daily performance. It also finds out irregular sleeping have visible and invisible effects on person's health. It is obvious that irregular sleeping patterns will make people easy to get illness and affect their daily performance; however, it may not directly affect on students' GPA. 
Cited 
Jiunn-Horng Kang & Shih-Ching Chen. (2009). Effects of an irregular bedtime schedule on sleep quality, daytime sleepiness, and fatigue among university students in Taiwan. BMC Public Health 2009, 9:248. doi:10.1186/1471-2458-9-248 
Kristen Hedger Archbold, Monica M. Vasquez, James L. Goodwin & Stuart F. Quan. (2012, July). Effects of Sleep Patterns and Obesity on Increases in Blood Pressure in a 5-Year Period: Report from the Tucson Children's Assessment of Sleep Apnea Study. The journal of pediatrics. Vol. 161, No.1. 
Michael H Bonnet & Janet Alter. (1981, October 29). Effects of irregular versus regular sleep schedules on performance, mood and body temperature. North-Holland Publishing Company. Biological psychology. 
Default, Katherine H. Personal interview /3/23/2016/. 
2 
