Argumentative Essay Draft3 
12/11/2015 
Medieval motet: A fusion of sacred and secular music 
It was four years ago when I was in high school, my animation club received a group of visiting students from Massachusetts and we had a hot discussion about Japanese animation music. During the discussion, we found that Japanese animation music combines the Eastern style tune and Western characteristic composing. While most Eastern music are more clear and graceful with aftertaste; Western music are more complex, powerful and full of changes. I am interested in this excellent combination of conflict Eastern and Western music, because even though in the same song, I like the clear melody while my guests prefer the powerful beats, they are two elements of two different music styles. I like this genius fusion of the two different types of music. By combining the features of these two styles of music, Japanese animation music could be counted as a fusion of Eastern music and Western music. When I learned about medieval secular motet in my music appreciation class this semester, it reminded me of the discussion with my American friends in high school. As Japanese animation music combines Eastern melody and Western composing, medieval motet contains both sacred elements and secular elements. Although popular opinions believe that sacred music and secular music are independent, parallel or even contradict, medieval motet could be counted as a fusion of sacred music and secular music, rather than a secular kind. 
However, most people may not agree with me. Firstly, as the definition of medieval motet in Hoffer &Bailey (2015), medieval motet is a highly varied choral secular musical composition that was sung in the courts. Medieval motet is a kind of secular music which was accepted by people. Secondly, according to Hoffer & Bailey (2015), sacred and secular music contradict each other in almost all aspects, for example: sacred music has a restrained mood while secular music expresses the emotions; sacred music has no metrical rhythm but secular music especially the dance music has exciting triple tempo. Some say that sacred music and secular music are so conflict that they could not be fused together. Thirdly, as Professor Sudano said in my interview, there was no sacred-secular fusion in Western music history. In <name>'s opinion, sacred music and secular music are two big "rivers" running parallel to each other; they never join together. 
Medieval motet was defined as secular music because it satisfied many secular characteristics, but medieval motet was not a pure secular music, it contains both sacred elements and secular elements. It is suppressing the evidence to define medieval motet a secular kind only using its secular characters and ignoring the sacred parts. As Maniates (1966) analyzed in his paper Mannerist composition in Franco-Flemish polyphony, polyphony, an important texture in Western music consisting of two or more simultaneous lines of independent melody, and cantusfirmus, a pre-existing melody forming the basis of a polyphonic composition, are two basic techniques of medieval motet writing. It is true that medieval motet contains many secular characteristics, its topic is always about love and it is sung in vernacular language. However, by using the polyphony technique, it is also true that medieval motet has religious components which is the use of phrases from Gregorian chant, the official sacred music in the Middle Ages, as its cantus-firmus. In general, medieval motet has two pieces of music playing at the same time and running parallel to each other, one is secular and the other is sacred, although medieval motet is defined as secular music, I prefer to think it as a fusion of sacred and secular music. 
According to <name>, sacred music and secular music are two big "rivers" running parallel to each other, they are conflicting, but they also have shared attributes such as notation and rhythm, just like the "soil" between the "rivers". Sacred music and secular music influenced each other because of their creators, priest composers and secular musicians. Burkley (1968) once talked about priest composers suffered sacred-secular conflict in their work and after work. Maybe a priest heard something when he was drinking beers on Saturday night, and on Sunday morning, he might want to use some of those techniques in his composing of Mass. Maybe someone heard something sung in church on Sunday morning, and on Saturday night, he might want to try some of those phrases of melodies in his garage band. By using the shared attributes especially polyphony texture, composers made great fusion of conflicting sacred elements and secular elements in medieval motet. 
In general, sacred music and secular music are parallel to each other, but when they intersected in certain times, fusion happened, that is where the medieval motet belonged to. <name> pointed out that, Medieval Motet was not a common phenomenon. To support his idea, he compared the numbers of recorded Medieval Motet with the secular music and sacred music. The number of motets recorded is even far less than that of secular music. 
Although we don't know how many pieces of sacred and secular music were preserved, hardly any secular music was preserved compared with sacred music. This is because sacred music was preserved for church services, while secular music, "the music people listened to when they are drinking beers", had no need to be preserved. Today people have even less motet than secular music. Comparing with the two big rivers of sacred music and secular music, Medieval Motet was only a little tiny point, where the fusion belonged to. <name> showed me "tiny" using his fingers. In <name>'s idea, there was a fusion, a coming together, although that was more accidental than anything else. In most times of history, even in most parts of the Middle Ages, according to Professor Sudano, "the Church is Church", and "drinking beers on Saturday night is drinking beers on Saturday night", but people could not deny that the fusion of sacred music and secular music did happened in great genius medieval motet. 
In addition to Medieval Motet, <name> provided me with some other examples of this genius fusion in music history, one is medieval drama. In the Middle Ages, the Christian Church taught people morals, that was why the moral play, medieval secular drama, was allowed to be played in the holy church. It was hard to believe because this drama contains so many impolite secular elements including sex and drinking, and these elements were unwelcomed or even hated by the holy Cathedral Church especially in that repressive time. Medieval drama was not only a fusion of sacred music and secular music, but even a fusion of sacred culture and secular culture: it fused drama, secular entertainment, with moral education, sacred religious service. Although, similar to medieval motet, people can only see the fusion at the accidentally tiny point when the two tracks crossed; out of that point, sacred river and secular river run in their parallel tracks. From the fusion of sacred music and secular music, culture fusion had also been watched happening accidentally but amazingly. 
From the Middle Ages to nowadays, sacred music and secular music are two big "rivers" running parallel and even conflict to each other in general. However, these two "rivers" share so many attributes like notation, rhythm and texture, and occasionally they intersected. In these tiny cross points, sacred elements and secular elements joined together which contributed to a fusion of sacred and secular music. Because of these, medieval motet should be counted as a fusion of sacred and secular music, rather than a kind of secular music. Similarly, Japanese animation music today is also fusion, in which Western "river" and Eastern "river" are crossing. 
