Why is ageism in workplace such an issue these days? 
	For many years, older workers have been viewed as different compared to middle-aged workers. Even though many workplaces do not hire workers who are perceived as too young or immature, it is practically a bias against older workers, in other words, discrimination. Does an age actually matter when hiring workers? Why are replacements of workers necessary when older workers are still capable of doing their job correctly? What is the main reason why younger workers are not hired oftentimes? What people have to realize is that there needs to be an enactment that can prevent employers from applying age discrimination, and rather let them decide on individual basis of workers such as what they are capable of doing and how familiar are they with the job. 
	Some people claim that hiring should be based on ability. Since ability can hardly be tested and judged by the appearance, they believe that employers must use the age as their indicator, like leadership in sports as an indicator of whether the individual is responsible and manageable. Moreover, in their perspective, age seems to be the best indicator of the individual's concentration, memory and energy, which are important qualities the worker must have. However, age should not be used to indicate those qualities in hiring process. It is unfair to not hire someone just because a worker's age indicates that he or she won't be as energetic and skillful as they expect him or her to be. Then, people must question the notion of individual rights if this type of hiring process continues because it obviously violates the principles of equality. Although certain jobs such as surgeons and delivery workers require concentration and energy respectively, age should not be an evidence of those crucial qualities in perspective of employers or hiring managers. Age is just a number, not a factor that can be utilized to evaluate a person. Simply put, age discrimination violates the individual rights and only brings negative outcomes in economy. (Mahal 2) 
	Also, there is another stereotypical thinking among people that age discrimination does not hurt either the government or the economy; rather, it benefits the government and economy in several ways. It is true that the workplaces will benefit a lot from having workers, who are favored by employees. However, in terms of what will likely to happen in the future, it will only benefit the workplace itself but does not bring any advantage to the government and economy. As more workers get employed, the amount of money the government has to spend on unemployed workers decreases. Also, as discrimination continues in workplace, the increase of unemployment rate will cause a waste of resources that the economy has to be contributed to unemployed people. Therefore, there will be no potential growth of economy throughout the time. Considering the aforementioned disadvantages that both government and economy will face imminently, age discrimination should be eliminated. Not only it should be eliminated in hiring process, but also within the workplace. When thinking of drawbacks from age discrimination, it is flawed for workplaces to perceive that anything won't matter as long as they benefit. If economy becomes weaker, it is likely that the workplace will become doomed. Rather than bringing positive outcomes, age discrimination cause negative consequences that both the government and economy will face later in the future. 
	As this topic continues to be exemplified, it is important for people to realize that the government needs to take action to prevent further discrimination in workplace. Some people claim that a legislation enacting a law to prevent age discrimination is not compulsory. What else can protect the workers if the workplaces continue to discriminate the workers by the age? It is strongly recommended that legislation should step in to change the biased attitudes of workplaces, which are considered harmful acts that can violate the principle of equality. However, even though the legislation enacts a law to prevent discrimination, some people question what will guarantee the shift of attitudes in workplaces? If such enactment existed in society, then it is less possible that older workers will not get hired because it is illegal and against a law. An enactment is designed to protect a certain group of people who are discriminated and less advantaged to raise the level of equality in society. Possibly a large monetary judgment can be seen as one of consequences that the workplace has to face from age discrimination. Eventually, workplaces will not hire the workers based on the age because they do not want to create a negative public image by doing so. Therefore, the government also has to step in and take action to prevent further discrimination in workplace. 
	Whether the worker is old or too young for the job, people must rely on what the worker is capable of. There is no reason to deny the worker just because he or she looks too old or too young. To prevent further increase of unemployment rate and continuation of down economy in society, an act of discriminating workers by their age should be not be tolerated. 
