Effective Ways to Improve Working Mothers' Working Environments 
Nowadays, a growing number of mothers are willing to have their own jobs rather than being just housewives. In the past, women usually stayed home and took care of the younger ones. Discrimination toward working mothers was common in the workplace. Although the number of working mothers is increasing, their companies have not made many changes to provide more comfortable working environments for working mothers. In order to give working mothers better working environments, companies should make accommodations to help alleviate discrimination against working mothers. 
One of the reasons why working mothers struggle to take care of both their families and jobs is that their companies do not provide them with enough support. In many companies, working mothers do not have flexible schedules, and many of them have a hard time to leave working early or work from home. As a result, they might not be able to pick up their children from school buses or drop them off at sports practices. The struggle often comes to a point where working mothers have to make hard decisions: it is either the jobs or the children. Anita Little wrote in her article "The Cold Truth behind Silicon Valley's Egg Freezing" that the "real answer to helping women juggle parenting and work starts with finding more supportive ways to ease the burden of childrearing in a way that allows women to stay on their career path". If working mothers can finish their work in an effective and productive way, they will have more time and energy to take care of their children after work. Therefore, companies should provide working mothers with compensations such as working from home, worksharing, or flexible work schedules to help reduce their stress and burden. This way, working mothers can take good care of both their jobs and their children. 
If people are more willing to make accommodations to working mothers, their lives could be much easier. For non-mother workers, they do not have to face much stress after their working hours end. They may just go home and relax on the couch, enjoy dinner, and watch some televisions. However, working mothers finish work and return home to take care of more business: their children. After a hard day of work, they may still need to cook dinner for their children, help them with homework, put them into bed, and so on. This is hard and stressful especially after a workday. Joan Williams wrote in her article "Woman and Work: Heavy Lifting, Part II - Discrimination Against Mothers in the Workplace" that if people "continue to refuse accommodations to pregnant women -- whether those accommodations are help lifting a 50-pound box a more flexible tenure timeline -- gender inequality isn't going anywhere". This means that if the companies can be understanding and help give working mothers some accommodations, it would make their lives much easier. For example, if companies can offer on-site daycare for children, working mothers can worry less about their children and focus more energy on their jobs. 
Some may argue that companies should not give accommodations to working mothers because by giving accommodations, companies are reducing their own benefits. Programs such as on-site day care or highly paid maternal leaves require a lot of financial support from the companies. Thus, some people argue that companies lose their money by giving such benefits to working mothers. However, if companies give these benefits, working mothers will have more comfortable and secured working environments, and they would likely be more productive and focused on their jobs. If working mothers perform better at their jobs, the companies could probably make more money. 
Working mothers have two jobs to take care of: jobs and children. For any person, a job is hard enough to maintain. For working mothers, they have to also look after their children on top of their jobs. Although working mothers encounter challenges at work, the companies have not made many accommodations in order to make their lives easier. If companies can offer more help, such as flexible work schedules, highly paid maternal leaves, on-site day cares, and so on, working mothers' lives would be much easier. 
