Still Not the Right Time 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
Esport is a newly rising sport which can be defined as a form of sports where players compete through electronic systems. A group of people called pro gamers start showing in front of the screen and earn a considerable income. Looking at those gamers glory moment on the game platform, people wonder if this is an appropriate job that worth pursuing in this century. This paper discusses four reasons why people should not choose pro gamers as a career. To clarify those reasons, eight articles and one interview, conducted with a talented pro gamer named <name>, will be used for reference. 
Still Not the Right Time 
	Ever since the first competitive game was released in 1990s, gaming has always been an exciting activity among people in varied age and locations (Barwick, 2013, pp.1). Due to people's strong enthusiasm towards gaming, it is frequently asked that whether training hard as a professional gamers could be considered as a career goal. At the first time I saw this question, I was fascinated by how novel the idea is. If people are able to sustain their lives with considerable income from gaming, then, most people could choose not to go all the way through the tedious educational systems to college, but concentrate on what they loved. Yet, the more data is collected, the more conflicts of this idea are discovered. At the end of my research journey, I summarized gathered information which contradict the feasibility of working as pro gamers into four groups. 
	Path towards a pro gamer is not any easier than college life, or maybe even tougher. Under the age limitation of thirty, gamers are asked to train themselves hard enough and achieve some results few years before the limitation so that some gamer employers will recruit them (Savov, 2014, Only The Twitchiest section). Also, while college students are struggling in writing their final essays and calculating math or physics solutions for hours per day, gamers also practice in front of the screen for around eight hours per day, and then reflect and construct strategies (Tassi, 2012, p.1). If people tries to be a pro gamer for easy meal, they must come to be the wrong place since the cost of glorious time in front of the computer screen is significant and irreversible. Most pro gamers are striving hard because they love combating and aim high in this competitive world (Marton ik, 2015, p.210) 
Physical and mental issues caused by long screen time and highly concentrated practice are damages that could not be reversed. The result of an experiment studying young children's behaviors influenced by violent game showed that "children who played violent video games on a regular basis were more aggressive than their peers who rarely or never played such games" (Brown, 2012, para.3). Also, according to another experiment conducted by Dr. Matthews from Indiana University, a series of comparisons of the performances were made between two groups of adults, and it turned out that playing game reduced brain functions of participants'. Even though staying away from video games for a week, the influence did not disappear completely. Also, dopamine, a hormone related to pleasure, is produced constantly while playing games. Researchers described that "the dopamine produced had the same effect as amphetamines or Ritalin injected into the blood stream" (para.11). And some wives even become "widows" due to the indifferent treat from husbands who fall in love with games. Regarding the health problem, long screen time and sitting time without a break cannot only cause eyestrain and aches but also cancers. Despite numerous ways of protecting bodies from above causes, such as eye drops, healthy diet, and gym (SARV007, 2013, p.1) , they can only slow down the devastating impacts instead of countering them so as a pro gamer, you have to accept all those inevitable damage, which, in my opinion, is not worth at all. The income you make is for improving life standard but not deteriorating. 
Esport is growing in an unbelievable speed through media which introduces this unique sport to all the world (Grisham, 2015, p.1). While more and more people join in, the top prize of one game had increased from less than one million to five million in 2014(Savov, 2014, Chinese Team section). However, this still does not change the fact that only tops, but not average Esport players, can benefit from growing prize. Within a tournament, around two hundred teams are competing with each other and only sixteen teams can reach the final stage, where prize is distributed among them; the cost of travel and housing are not paid by tournament host too (<name>, personal communication, 2015). 
Admittedly, some people point out that the job positions offered to pro gamers, like pro casters, observers, and analysts (Barwick, 2013, pp.6), and ways of making income are diverse, like livestream, which let them find a way to earn money even if they do not strive for tournament prize (Gaudiosi, 2015, p1). But still, no matter how diverse they are, if they could not provide enough money (livestream) and there is no guarantee of getting a job from game companies, people could not rely on them. During the interview with <name>, a current professional gamer playing League of Legend, Halo 2 and Halo 3, he showed me a program called "434 Industry", which consists of several video game players who spend time in developing the game of that company. Although <name> has always been a talented players and has joined into the top tier teams, he still thinks of earning an engineer degree in Purdue University: 
I know professional gaming will only last me so long, so I don't want to rely on that "what if I maybe can get a job in a gaming company" because what if I don't. Then I have nothing. I have no education. Then I have no way to get a job. And I have nothing left (personal communication). 
For livestream, <name> also pointed out that the income heavily depends on how much people like the way you talk. There is a pool that people can donate money as much as they wish, but if you cannot attract a group of loyal audiences, you will suffer a hard time of maintaining the livestream. 
	In conclusion, gaming is still not an appropriate job to rely on. From training to becoming an independent professional gamer, uncountable effort has to be paid, but there is no guarantee that you will definitely find a job. Once fails, you will only be left with a bunch of health problems. But that is solely for current condition. If a series of standard process of training an Esport players comes up, more companies start signing contract with potential candidates, and people find a way to let players practice without harming their bodies. Then, I would say, "Do whatever you like to do." 
Reference 
Barwick, S (2013, Sep. 10). The rise of e Sports: A fresh face for gaming entertainment. Gaming IQ. Retrieved from http://gamingindustryiq.com/2013/09/10/the-rise-of-esports-a-fresh-face-for-gaming-entertainment/ 
Brown, J. (2012, March 22). The harmful effects of too much video game playing. [Web log comment]. Retrieved from http://spaceforswashbuckling.blogspot.com/2012/03/harmful-effects-of-too-much-video-game.html 
Gaudiosi, J (August 11, 2015). ESports are huge on You Tube-even though most coverage isn't live. Fortune. Retrieved from: http://fortune.com/2015/08/11/youtube-esports/ 
Grisham, R. (2015, Oct. 14). Why e Sports are sweeping the world. Sporting News. Retrieved from http://www.sportingnews.com/sport/story/2015-10-14/esports-what-are-esports-explained-league-of-legends-dota-call-of-duty-video-games-tournament-championship. 
Marton ik, M (July 2015). E-Sports: Playing just for fun or playing to satisfy life goals? Computers in Human Behavior, Vol.48, pp.208-211. doi: 10.1016/j.chb.2015.01. 056 
SARV007 (2013, Feb. 20). Health issues faced by Gamers. [Web log comment]. Retrieved from http://www.techpaparazzi.com/gamers-health-issues/ 
Savov, V. (2014). Inside the life of a pro gamer. Verge. Retrieved from http://www.theverge.com/2014/7/21/5919973/inside-the-life-of-a-pro-gamer#comments 
Tassi, P. (2012, March 30). The 10 steps to becoming a pro gamer. Forbes-Tech, 2. Retrieved from http://www.forbes.com/sites/insertcoin/2012/03/30/the-10-steps-to-becoming-a-pro-gamer/ 
STILL NOT THE RIGHT TIME 		 2 
Running head: STILL NOT THE RIGHT TIME	1 
