E-sports as a New Sport 
With the development of computers and Internet, online games has been more and more popular during the last decade. In the meantime, e-sports came out on the world. E-sports means that a couple of high-skilled gamers compete with each other by playing online games and win prizes and these people who play e-sports as a profession are known as pro-gamers. Many people doubt that pro-gamer is just an easy job because playing games is so easy, and they also doubt whether e-sports is a kind of sport. The public have so many misunderstandings towards e-sports and pro-gamers Therefore, I'm writing here to defend for them. 
The first misconception is that pro-gamers play every day and that's too easy because playing games is so relaxing. Mou "PDD" Liu, a retired pro-gamer, claimed that imagine if you are a pro-gamer that you live on playing games, and you are required to play the same game at least 10 hours a day. Will you still enjoy this game? If you still don't agree, you can try playing the same online game for 8 hours in one day. Also it's very common for pro-gamers to stay overnight to 6 A.M., which he thinks will apparently affect their health negatively (personal communication, October 11, 2014). I believe so. Just like other sports, e-sports, or games, maybe fun when you only for entertainment, but when it becomes a profession which involves systemic training and tactics, it is no longer fun and maybe physically harmful for pro-gamers. 
Some other people doubt that e-sports cannot be recognized as a true sports because people rarely have physical movement while playing games. From my point of view, this statement is somehow ridiculous, since US government now recognize League of Legends (Lo L) pro-gamers as pro athletes and give them P1 visa (Makuch, 2013). South Korea also set up an official e-sports organization called Korea e-Sports Association (Ke SPA), in charge of all e-sports teams, players and events in South Korea. According to Jenna Burrell's understanding of T.L. Taylor, e-sports is a more mentally-oriented sport, same with snooker and chess (Burrell, 2013). This idea is proved by Hutchins's description that pro-gamers always have a lot of sweat during the match because of the mental intense as well as they thinking quite a lot (Hutchins, 2007). It physically challenges people sometime. In my memory, a match between Counter Logic Gaming EU and World Elite in Season 2 Lo L World Championship lasted 8 hours due to network problems. After that match all the people in these two teams seemed like if they just had a marathon race. 
Similar to traditional sports tournaments, E-sports now can have large scale event like World Cyber Games before and now annually Lo L World Championship and Dota 2 The International Championship (TI). Lo L World Championship this year was held in Sangam Stadium in South Korea which was the venue of FIFA 2002 World Cup. 40 thousand audiences went to the scene and at last Samsung White won 1 million dollar as champion prize (Jackson, 2014). Dota 2 TI4 this year was held in Key Arena in Seattle, which was the home of Seattle Sonic, a former NBA team. Over 20 million audiences on world witnessed Newbee's winning 4. 73 million dollar in grand final. A fun fact is that the champion prize was fully donated by Dota 2 players (Mc Whertor, 2014). No matter scale or prize or audience number, e-sports tournament now can exceed a lot of traditional sports. 
A famous professor in China called Hongkai Tao claims that we can learn nothing from gaming and e-sports and the only thing we can get is addiction to games. It is true for some people but not for all. E-sports can give us entertainment and some positive energy. I don't have to talk a lot about entertainment because games are joyful for most of the people no matter watching or playing. I want to emphasize more on what we can learn from e-sports. It is an intellectual sport which involves thoughtful decisions and precise calculations, so we can practice these good habits in e-sports. Of course some games like Lo L and Dota 2 which require 5 people in one team, team-work is of great importance. While playing these kind of games, we can learn communication with others, division and cooperation of a team. Nowadays, formal medias, for example, Wall Street Journal, New York Time, ESPN, start to cover e-sports news and even U.S. air force sponsor an e-sports team, Cloud 9's Lo L team (Breslau, 2014). Therefore, why people still worry about e-sports? 
In conclusion, e-sports is a new sport but more intellectual-oriented than the traditional one, from which we can not only be relaxed but also learn some skills from e-sports. Pro-gamers are not as easy as many people think. Their systemic individual training and team tactics require highly trained skills and cooperation. Their professional game is totally different from our game just for fun. E-sports and pro-gamers are now respected by government and a large number of people, so people with misunderstandings, why not throw away your stereotype and evaluate e-sports squarely? 
