Mobile Game Explosion 
Unusually poor gaming experience, in the major game I play, Defense of the Ancient 2, and the flowing of negative mood about the gaming future among gaming video, present by random players, have lead me to question whether if the traditional gaming market, which compose up by consoles gaming market and personal computer gaming market, is going downhill. After having an amusing interview with an expert in the field of personal computer games and a time consuming research on internet by my own, I came up with a solid position on the question I started. Traditional game have been depleted its energy in attracting players, and its leading place in entertainment will be taken by mobile game. The statistic data and comparison will be present in order to support the position. 
	Statistically, mobile game is showing its unlimited potential aptitude of profit producing, gaining huge attention from world famous companies. As a new industry, mobile game has an incredible growing speed in sale volume. According to the VB news, the managing director of game investigate bank Digi-Capital predicted that the sale volume of mobile game market will achieve an increasing of 23.6% annually through 2011 till 2017, while the increasing speed of traditional gaming market remains as 10.1% annually(Wingfield 2012). Having such big different of potential, mobile game easily drawn attention of big companies from traditional gaming to its own. An article on New York Times shows that one of the biggest telecommunications provider in Japan, Soft Bank, decided to acquire half of the stake, by paying 1. 5 billion dollars, of a mobile game company (Pfanner, 2013). Even though the mobile game company is quiet small in size and new, this decision is still reasonable since that this mobile game company is the creator of two wild spread mobile game, which earn a net income of three hundred-fifty thousand per day. Besides Soft bank, there are many other companies show interest in mobile games, including famous companies in Japan like Sega, Nintendo, and companies in America such as Electronic Arts and Microsoft. There is a clear tendency of shifting to mobile game from traditional gaming among the top companies. 
	The direct reason of why top companies keen on mobile game is the huge profit, and a deeper justification is that the top companies understand that the mobile game is a better fit for people at now days. The reason to say mobile game is a better fit for now are that mobile game are cheaper, requires less time at each time playing, and convenient of carrying and using. It is obviously that mobile game is cheaper than either PC games (personal computer games) or consoler games. Generally, the requirement for mobile game is just a smart phone, which is wildly seen around us, and the cost is usually less than ten dollars; however, pc games are usually above twenty for a game and not including the computer. Opposite side would say that smartphones and computers are both wildly spread, also the same time the cost between pc game and mobile game is not huge. This is correct indeed, but at the same time the consoler for consoler game is both not wildly used and cheap. Traditional game include both consoler gaming and pc gaming. 
	Besides the different in cost between mobile game and traditional game, mobile game also has an advantage of time consuming. Solo game (one player only game), either on computer of consoler, usually takes about 30 to 50 minutes for each single task, and multiplayer game for both computer games and consoler games requires much more time because people cannot leave their teammates easily and multiplayer task is usually much harder than solo game. For those reasons, each time a player performing a solo game or multiplayer game, he or she has to create a spare time at least 30 minutes. In the same time, mobile games are less likely to have multiplayer games and require a time more than 10 minutes, since you can back to home page and leave the game at backstage. It is true that computer games can also leave to the backstage, but it means the overall performance of the computer will be deducted. (Feijoo, Gomez-Barroso, Aguado, & Ramos, 2012) 
	Working others function with a game at backstage might be fine to the expensive computers, but there is no way to carry such a computer around like a smartphone. Mobile games are loaded on smartphone, and thus people can play the mobile games nearly at most of their spare time, without limiting of time and place. Because people will spend more time on mobile game, it's reasonable to conclude that mobile game become more important to those people and ending with more money spend by those people. Pc games and consoler games usually available only at home and easy to be limited by parents at the perspective of teenagers. 
	 Mobile game will increasingly gaining its popularity in the next few years or even decades, and the traditional gaming has nothing to do about this trend. Mobile games is surely cheaper, cost less time, and more easily to be played with. Traditional games have nothing to do to overturn this circumstance, but they can avoid competing with mobile games at those fields which are much hard for traditional games to improve, and developing in other sections for instance harder game experience which requires more key to be used, and better sight in games. 
Reference 
Feijoo, C, Gomez-Barroso, J, Aguado, J, & Ramos, S. (2012). Mobile gaming: Industry challenges and policy implications. Telecommunications Policy, 36(3). 212,221. doi 10.1016/j.telpol.2011.12. 004 
Pfanner, E. 10 21 2013. Asia, where mobile games flowered, extends its Reach. The New York Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/22/business/international/asia-where-mobile-games-flowered-extends-its-reach.html 
Wingfield, N. 10 8 2012. From the land of angry birds, a mobile game maker lifts off. International New York Times. Retrieved from http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/08/from-the-land-of-angry-birds-a-mobile-game-maker-lifts-off/?_r=0 
