P5D1 Argumentative essay 
April 10, 2015 
Is Vegetarianism a Good Diet? 
	Did you know obesity has become a severe health problem in the U.S.? According to FRAC(Food Research and Action Center), more than two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight or obese. And about a quarter of 2-5 year olds, and one-third of school-age children (including adolescents) are overweight or obese in the U.S.(Ogden et al.,2014). Obesity is known as a chronic disease and has several bad effects such as high risks of heart disease and bone disease on people's health. Although there are several reasons that cause obesity, one's unhealthy diet is one of the most important reasons. In order to live a healthier life, many people have started to conduct a vegetarian diet. A vegetarian diet is a type of diet that excludes meat, eggs, dairy products and all other animal-derived ingredients. Is a vegetarian diet a good diet? The answer is yes. There are several researches and publications to prove that a vegetarian can gain all he or she needs by conducting a vegetarian diet in a right way. 
	There are several benefits that people can gain from the vegetarian diet. First of all, conducting a vegetarian diet can lower the potential risks of many chronic diseases. According to ADA (American Dietetic Association), vegetarians are at a lower risk of suffering heart diseases, colorectal, ovarian and breast cancers, diabetes, obesity and hypertension. The reason is that vegetarian diet has less fat, sugar and salt, but more fiber. 
	Also, according to Fraser, there's convincing evidence that vegetarians' cancer rate appears to be moderately lower than those of other living in the same communities. Moreover, life expectancy appears to be greater of the former. Mrs. Singleton the dietitian who I interviewed agreed that if a vegetarian conducted a plant based diet, there were indeed several health benefits. There are several studies that show a positive correlation between eating a more plant based diet and different health outcomes. People who had more fruits and vegetables were showed to have a lower BMI (Body Mass Index), a reduced risk for cardiovascular diseases or hypertension, a lower cancer rate and a lower blood pressure, etc. Therefore, by conducting a vegetarian diet people can manage their health better and are less likely to suffer chronic diseases. 
	In addition to lower risks of diseases, vegetarians also gain more nutrients by consuming more nutrient rich food. According to Dietary Guidelines for Americans, vegetables and fruits are the best sources of Vitamin A( carotenoids), Vitamin C, folate and potassium. By consuming various fruits and vegetables, vegetarians can gain all the nutrients they need for a healthy life. Also the article Health Effects of Vegetarian and Vegan Diets (2006) by Key, Appleby and Rosell, is especially focused on the nutrients intake of vegetarians. With a great deal of data to support, there are usually enough carbohydrates, n-6fatty acids, dietary fiber, carotenoids, folic acid, vitamin C, vitamin E and Mg in vegetarian diets. All these evidences show that people can gain what they need from vegetarian diet. 
	However, there are is an opposition against the vegetarian diet. According to Fitday, living a vegetarian lifestyle requires unique nutrition needs. Without meat or animal byproducts, essential vitamins and nutrients can dwindle in the body. Indeed, vegetarians are more likely to suffer deficiency of Calcium, Omega 3, Iron, Zinc and vitamin B12. However, even strict vegetarians can gain enough nutrients if they are more careful about what they eat. ''A vegetarian lifestyle can be a healthy way of life as long as a variety of food is eaten'' (Hert, Vegetarian and Health,18). Also, Mrs. Singleton agrees that if vegetarians pay more attention to plan their meals and snacks so as to make sure they get the certain nutrients in their meals, they will be fine. Therefore, though there are potential risks for nutrients deficiency, vegetarians still can get everything they need as long as they pay enough attention to what they eat. 
	Vegetarian diet is good for people's health in two main aspects: by conducting a vegetarian diet, people can not only prevent several chronic diseases but also gain more nutrients from fruits and vegetables. After considering all the effects above, we can conclude that vegetarian diets are generally good for people's health if they pay attention to gain the balance of nutrients. 
Reference 
Berning, Jacqueline."The Vegetarian Athlete" Nutrient in Sport. Ed. Ronald J. Maughan. IOC Medical Commission. 442-455. Print. 
Hert, Shawn. '' Vegetarian diet and Health''. The University of Memphis, 2010. Print. 
Key, Timothy and Appleby, Paul and Rosell, Magdalena. ''Health Effects of Vegetarian and Vegan Diets''. Cancer Research UK Epidemiology Unit, University of Oxford. Print. 
Overweight and Obesity in the U.S. Food Research & Action Center . (February 11,2015). Retrieved from Food Research Action Center Overweight and Obesity in the US Comments. 
Position of the American Dietetic Association: Vegetarian Diets. (July 2009). 
Fraser, Gray E. Vegetarian diets: what do we know of their effects on common chronic diseases? 2009. 
