Argumentative Paper, Draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Health Insurance Marketplace: The Drawbacks 
	We all want the best for ourselves, our loved ones and our properties. Therefore, we do our best to protect ourselves and our loved ones from unfortunate accidents and mishaps. However, there are times when we were unable to protect ourselves and our precious belongings from natural disasters, dangers and accidents. Due to our crucial need of security, we purchase insurance as a form of protection against unfortunate incidents for instance, vehicle accidents, bodily injuries and diseases. Well, insurance does not protect us directly against these incidents like an armor does but it works as a guarantee that the expenses incurred from these accidents will be taken cared off. As we know, health insurance is one of the most important type of insurance. However, not all people afford to purchase one because of financial difficulty and lack of information. In order to make health insurance affordable to those with financial difficulty, Health Insurance Exchange (Obama Care) was introduced. This program was also introduced to curb the insanely huge profits of for-profit health insurance providers and to ensure that insurance companies provide better quality insurance with an affordable price. Even though Obama Care is a program pregnant with a lot of social benefits, I still think that the benefits do not outweigh its costs due to several reasons which I will present in the following paragraphs. 
	A lot of Obama Care supporters believe that it is a good program that helps tens of millions of uninsured Americans to gain access to an affordable, high quality health insurance through Health Insurance Marketplace. Over half of uninsured Americans can also get free or low cost health insurance and some can get help on out-of-pocket costs using state's Health Insurance Marketplace. However, to realize this noble cause, the Affordable Care Act requires all Americans to purchase health insurance, but with subsidies to make sure the insurance are affordable. Why is it mandatory for everyone to purchase health insurance? Well, based on my interview with <name> , Health Insurance Marketplace works by using the Law of Large Numbers which means a large number of participants are required to spread costs evenly and to reduce the cost of insurance by attracting younger, healthier people into the program. It is undeniably a good social cause however a lot of people disagree with the implementation of this program because the government introduces new taxes on medical devices and pharmaceutical sales (Roland J., 2015). This program also berates some parties such as high earners, large businesses and health insurance providers since these new taxes affect them. 
	In another perspective, a lot of Obama Care proponents believe that this initiative helps to control the insanely skyrocketing profit of health insurance providers and at the same time protects clueless consumers from insurance companies' tactics that might increase patient healthcare costs or restrict their healthcare coverage. According to the Insurance Information Institute (III), insurance industry's profits in the third quarter of 2015 was $44 billion which was $6. 2 billion more than the profit earned in the first nine months of 2014. The $44 billion in 2015 was the highest nine months total since 2007 (Hartwig, 2016)! It is undeniably true that some of these insurance companies make huge profits in providing insurance protection to consumers however, even with the implementation of Obama Care, do the consumers really benefit economically? 
For this assignment, I asked a lot of my American friends on their opinions towards Obama Care and a lot of them said that they are more willing to pay for the fine imposed for not purchasing the insurance since it is relatively cheaper than the cost of purchasing one. Besides, some insurance companies and healthcare providers are planning to withdraw themselves from this program because they are losing profits. For example, based on an article titled "How an Insurance Company Screwed Up on Obamacare" on the Los Angeles Times website, the executives of the United Health Group which is the United States' biggest private healthcare provider threatened to leave the Health Insurance Marketplace (Obama Care) as early as 2017 because they have been losing millions of profit due to Affordable Care Act (ACA) exchange plans (Hiltzik M., 2016). Due to the pressure faced by insurance companies to maintain the unrealistically low cost of exchange plans, providers are being reimbursed at financially unsustainable rates thus causing a lot of physicians and hospitals to decline to accept insurance plans issued through exchanges. Ironically, this refusal to provide affordable care negates the intention of this program to make health insurance accessible to all. Another issue that is good to look out for is not only does insurance providers, hospitals and physicians are opting out from Obama Care, some families who were previously insured before the ACA resort to opt out from this program. They did that because they discovered that it is more reasonable to pay the individual mandate penalty and purchase regular health care than to pay for monthly premiums for an insurance coverage which physicians and hospitals are opting out from (La Couture B., 2014). 
	Apart from that, Obama Care is believed to help employees of businesses with more than 50 employees to get health insurance coverage by awarding them with tax credits to help lower their costs. This action is undeniably good to improve employees' social benefits however, it is projected that another 3 to 5 million people could lose their company-sponsored health care plans since these businesses will find it more cost-effective to pay the penalty and let their employees purchase their respective insurance plans on the Health Insurance Exchange. Apart from that, based on a report by Congressional Budget Office (CBO), it is estimated that there will be 2. 3 million fewer full time workers by 2021 as a result of the ACA-a bad sign for the growth of the economy (The Effects, CBO, 2012, para 3). This is because some workers will choose to forgo employment after obtaining coverage under the ACA, while some employees will voluntarily reduce their working hours. They do that because as their income rises, they will have lesser insurance subsidies and they may even have to pay for the new taxes like the high earners, so the workers will have less incentive to work more or at all. There is also a probability that the employers will cut employees' hours, hire fewer workers or offer lower wages to new employees to avoid or compensate for a new fine on employers that do not pay for insurance of employees who work more than 30 hours per week (Goldfarb & Goldstein, 2014). 
	As a conclusion, Obama Care is indeed a program intended to increase the social benefits of low to moderate income individuals and small businesses. However, it has some major drawbacks as the result of the implementation of the Affordable Care Act which brings benefit to the poor but burdens the health insurance companies, hospitals, high earners and not to forget, the economy. Even though it is still early to judge the effectiveness of this program, we can clearly see how this program has some negative effects that will bring loss to a lot of parties in both short run and long run. The negative effects include implicit taxes imposed as a result of the healthcare subsidies, falling profits of health insurance companies, reimbursement at financially unsustainable rates and the attitude of a group of employees and employers who take advantages on the health insurance subsidies for their own benefits which in the long run will hurt the economy of the United States. 
So, the government must be tactful in handling these negative implications by increasing the fine on employers who deliberately cut employees' working hours or offer lower wages to new workers so they will take their employees' welfare seriously. Apart from that, I think that the government must also be considerate to the insurance companies involved in the exchange program by lifting certain burden from them like unrealistically low insurance price to maintain their interest to cooperate under this program. 
