Justice and females' suicide rate 
Suicide rate never stop to slow down. In all over the world, most countries' female's suicide rate is lower than males, but in China the rates are different. I think, some particular concepts in China intrigue this phenomina. Before I discuss the relationship between justices and females' suicide rate, I'd like to talk about Justice. Justice is hard to be realized but human being never stop pursuing it. However in this process, people are still making mistakes, which cause injustice. People use morality and law to realize justice, but even in a modern society, some moral principles are wrong and some law cannot be effective. 
Morality can help human being to be more decent but sometime it can be a shackle. In rural area, some Chinese pay a lot of attention on morality but not on law. In order to keep them to be decent, they make some strict moral creeds, especially for females. For example, they think it is a responsibility to get marry and give birth to a kid. If a female prefer not to married, she will get in a lot of trouble. Females often face a lot of criticism in Chinese rural society. In under-developed region, females are totally subject to males. If a female try to resist a male she will be cast aside by their society. Like when a husband beats his wife, others would think that it is a normal phenomenon, and the wife should tolerance that, and try to serve her husband better. But if a wife beats her husband, people would think this woman is hateful. Actually, it's illegal for any one to commit domestic violence, but no matter a female is a victim or perpetrator, she often seems to be the guilty one. In conventional area, people are used to use different moral principle to judge males and females. Then females have to face more pressure, which entice them to commit suicide. Females in developed area also face a lot of moral criticism. For example, most of them have face glass ceiling before. Glass ceiling is that female have to face more difficult to get a promotion. And in China, there are still some people think that the most important thing in a girl's life is marriage but not career. So a well-educated or a high income female can be considered to be a loser. In conventional society's opinion, it's kind of immoral for a female to purchase success in professional life. In fact, most females' in developed area face more pressure than males. They have to spend more time to do housework, and if they do not like to do this, they will face harsh criticism. 
Laws are make to keep justice and harmony in a society, but if it can be effective, it's useless. In real life, they are still many cases shows that some laws are not enact effectively. Like for some company, they think male employees are best, married female employees are normal, but unmarried females are the worst. In some people's opinion, unmarried females are unstable; because females tend to quit their jobs or apply for more vacations when they just get married, and most company do not want to offer them this welfare. And some company even fire female employees only because they are pregnant. It's illegal to show discriminations in workplace but due to those companies nearly do not have to pay any cost for their discriminations, females right are infringed. This one aspect shows that how females are face more pressure. Another aspect it that a great amount of people do not consider that some actions are illegal. In some provinces, young girls are forced to married to strangers by their parents. These phenomena are seldom happened in urban area but widely spread in rural area. Because perpetrators do not consider forced marriages are crimes. They think this is their tradition, and if police try to recue these girls, all of neighbors will come out and stop polices, due to they really believe that if polices take those girls back, a "felicitous" family would be tear apart. 
Some people argue that morality and laws also affect males lives, why you claim that these issue only enhance females' suicide rate? I admit that males are repress by some morality creeds and laws too, whereas their stress is less than females. There are many restrictions obscure males to purchase their goals. If a male like pink, others may think he is abnormal, just because in the traditional thought, pink is girl's color. Males are forced to be stronger, and aggressive, even they do not like to act in this way. But when a male is taught to be aggressive, females are going to face more risks in their lives. In any society, the powerful can have more resource. As a result, there exist so laws protect the powerful group more than the weak group. Males' income is higher than females, and in conventional Chinese thought, their society are better than females. So when there are problems, males are more easily to get access for help. 
Female's suicide rate reflects their stress. The lower females' status is, the less help she can get from society and law. Some concepts of justice are eternal truth, but some of them are only timely discrimination. Society never stop developing, but even now discriminations exists in every society. Under this circumstance, both morality concepts and laws cannot protect females well. Some of them even only put stress on females. When an individual take great stress, suicide is unavoidable. 
