Suggestions for College Students on Healthy Eating 
Paper5 
Purdue University 
Figuring out the best way to control diet and balance nutrition becomes increasingly urgent for college students because most university students lack healthy diets. That explains why the so-called "freshman 15", an expression that refers to 15 pounds of weight gained during a student's first year at college, is so prevalent among college students. After conducting some research, I found that the healthiest way for a student to keep fit is to get plenty of water, plan for daily micronutrients and control the portion of sugar. 
Staying hydrated positively contribute to student's both physical and cognitive health. Norman 2005 focuses on the biomedical aspects of water in his paper. Water protects our brain by keeping them from overheating. According to the research conducted by Norman, by the time thirst is felt, there may be a loss of body weight up to 2% from water loss and a 10% cognitive decline may be present. Mc Mullen mentioned that water can contribute to our health more than what people have realized. College students usually lose lots of water when they are studying and forget to drink it back which raises the risk of being dehydrated. Dehydration can cause fatigue, dizziness, poor concentration and reduced cognitive abilities for students' studying. It is advisable for people to have plenty of water because one of the most significant components of metabolism is water. The body's metabolism performs a series of chemical reactions that take away wastes. A large variety of wastes are created by our bodies every day; these wastes could adhere to organisms and reduce their effectiveness; water washes them away. Moreover, having sufficient water will promote fullness, helping to starve off hunger. Mc Mullen announced that our mind usually mix up the feeling of hunger with thirst. In other words, even though we are not hungry, we eat food that would transfer to extra calories. Adversely, have some water before each meal help our stomach to digest and benefits keeping fit. According to Mc Mullen (2012), drink eight 8-ounce glasses of fluid a day is critical. 
Aside from getting enough water, adequate micronutrients is also critical for students to control body weight. Mr. <name>, a Ph D student in food science, emphasized that it is not advisable for students to take less food or even stay hungry for each day in order to maintain their body mass, because university students need more micronutrients for their studying and living. He recommended students to plan for their meals through the US dietary guideline to meet the daily micronutrient requirement. The US dietary guideline (2005) announced that a balanced diet for college students should contain specific amount of fruits, calcium, whole grain, and protein for each day. For a two thousand calorie diet: two cups of fruits (for example a small banana, one large orange and a quarter cup of dried peach), three cups of low-fat milk or yogurt, and least 3 ounces of whole-grain cereals or rice with baked or grilled meat provides adequate micronutrients that our bodies require for each day. It is critical for university student to follow this dietary guideline to plan for each meal and get plenty of micronutrient. 
Having enough micronutrients is only one aspect of healthy living; another important aspect of nutrition is learning how to control the portion of sugar for each day. American Heart Association (AHA) announced in 2009 that the safe amount of added sugar to eat per day for is 37. 5 grams, which is around 1 bottle of coke or one pack of skittles, for men and 25 grams, which is less than a can of coke or a kids size skittle for woman; this is because not only can extra added sugar transfer to fat but it also increases the blood sugar level which will potentially cause heart diseases (Gunnars,2008). According to Gunnars (2008) people are consuming over 60 pounds (28 kg) of added sugar per year in the U.S solely which is way higher than the daily sugar recommendation by AHA, and one of the largest portions of sugar consumption is students. Mc Mullen (2012) emphasized that college students should have portion-controlled snacks because college students have to reduce their daily sugar consumption to keep healthy and stay away from heart diseases. If students have a 2-pound bag of skittles, they're going to eat that 2-pound bag of skittles said Mc Mullen. Instead, she recommended students buy 100-calorie packs of candy and other snacks to keep portions controlled. It is hard for students to have a sugar-controlled meal at school dinning court, because there is an unlimited supply of soda and ice cream which contains lots of sugars. High sugar level meals potentially increase students' blood glucose. However, school dinning courts also have lots of fruits and vegetables, so Mc Mullen recommended students to take advantage that because they contain different types of vitamins and minerals to benefit our health. According to Mc Mullen replacing soda and snacks that we usually have with fresh fruits while watching TV is also advisable for keeping a sugar-controlled diet because not only do fresh fruit contain mild natural sugar but students will also get vitamins and minerals from fruits which are beneficial for their health. 
College students are susceptible to obesity and eating habit because they are making their dietary choice at their first time. In order to keep a healthy diet and control body weight, university students should get 8-ounce glasses of water, drink less than a bottle of coke to control the portion of sugar and plan for daily micronutrients including 2 cups of fruits, 3 cups of milk and 3-ounce of cereals for each day. 
Reference 
Mc Mullen, L. (2012). Nutrition tips for college students. Retrieved from http://health.usnews.com/health-news/slideshows/nutrition-tips-for-college-students 
Norman, P. (2015). How Nutrition and Hydration Boost Learning. Retrieved from http://www.healthybrainforlife.com/articles/school-health-and-nutrition/feeding-the-brain-for-academic-success-how 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (2005). Finding Your Way to a Healthier You. Retrieved from 
http://www.health.gov/dietaryguidelines/dga2005/document/html/brochure.htm 
Gunnars, K. (2008). How Much Sugar Should You Eat Per Day? Retrieved from 
http://authoritynutrition.com/how-much-sugar-per-day/ 
Running head: SUGGESTIONS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS ON HEALTHY EATING 3 
