P5D1 Argumentative Paper 
April 10, 2015 
Will You Choose the Major You Are Interested In Or Better To Your Future? 
	When a child is brought to the surface of the earth, it does not have the ability to discern wrong and right. Thus, the guardian of the child is charged with the responsibility of making decisions on its behalf. A guardian is required to make decisions that are in the best interest of the child. By so doing, the child will live a healthy life. As children develop, they are furnished with information and skills that facilitate them to make suitable decisions. As they make various kinds of decisions, they appreciate that the quality of their choices will have direct implications for their lives (Andrews, 2006). As such, the majority of human beings progressively enhance their proficiency in decision making on a regular basis. Students make numerous decisions on a daily basis. Most of the decisions that they make have direct repercussions on their academic performance and life in general. Choosing a major is amongst the most significant decisions that are made by students. The type of major that a student chooses will have an effect on their future prospects. As a consequence, it is essential for students to choose majors that they are highly passionate about so as to enhance their future. This paper aims at discussing the essence of choosing a major that one is passionate about in order to better the future prospects. 
In most scenarios, students face a dilemma with regards to choosing a major. This is primarily because the majors that students choose will determine their career paths. It is best for guardians, school counselors, and academic instructors to provide students with relevant career exposure prior to choosing their majors. This is a stratagem that aims at affording students with the opportunity to choose majors that are likely to enable them to realize their dreams. A successful career is usually developed through dedication, working hard and excellent decision-making (Harris & Jones, 2007). This is principally because the sort of career that an individual achieves is developed progressively. Choosing the most suitable major is at the heart of attaining a successful career. 
In this light, there are parties who opine that students should choose their careers on the basis of the ease to secure an opportunity for employment. Persons who support this vantage point claim that the fundamental intent of education is to enable an individual to attain a financially successful life. As such, they encourage students to rationalize the process of choosing a major (Nadler, 2006). The primary shortcoming of this ideology is that it fails to appreciate that human beings are emotional in nature. This implies they have a wide variety of needs and students should take account of such factors when they are choosing their majors. This is a stratagem that aims at enabling the students to choose a major that will endow them with the highest degree of satisfaction in life. 
Interestingly, choosing a major on the basis of the demand for a particular set of expertise may not be the most suitable approach. This is chiefly because the demand for a particular skill set varies in accordance to a vast array of market factors. As such, it might seem like the safest channel to an ideal job opportunity and prosperous life it can be highly risky. There is an extremely high likelihood that variations of the market factors can shift the demand for the career that you had already chosen (Harris & Jones, 2007). Consequently, this can lead to stress, disorientation, and frustration. A student who chooses hers or his major on account of the career that they are passionate about is likely to experience a comparatively high degree of peace despite the variance of the market factors. Often, such individuals consider such situations to be challenges that need to be overcome so as to establish a prosperous career. These type of individual typically deduce inner strength to continue working towards the realizing the career of their dreams despite any setbacks that might be prevalent. 
Moreover, it is appropriate for students to choose their majors on the basis of their passion. Students that choose majors that are in line with their passion tend to perform better than the one who do not. This is principally because such students tend to enjoy the coursework of the various units that pertain to their major (Andrews, 2006). They are highly inspired and interested in the numerous issues that are being covered in their respective major. Consequently, they naturally gravitate towards gaining advanced knowledge about their respective major. What is more is that students who choose majors that they are passionate about usually end up in the most suitable careers. This is simply because such students do not necessarily take up conventional career paths. Instead, they can develop and design a career that best suits them. Therefore, they are more likely than their counterparts to attain a comparatively high degree of accomplishment in their professions, as well as private lives. 
	Evidently, choosing a major can be a task that is overwhelming for most students. However, the community can enable students to choose the most suitable majors through exposure and proper guidance (Harris & Jones, 2007). Passion is superior to practicality when choosing a major. This is primarily because the need for achievement if amongst the factors determines a person's overall degree of satisfaction in life. 
