April 30, 2016 
Engl 106i 
Measures to solve cross-strait relations 
As Ma Yingjiu has been the Taiwan president for 8 years, both Taiwan and mainland China had a mutual and peaceful development Li, 2012. However, as the following victory of candidate Tsai Ing-wen of the independence-inclined Democratic Progressive Party becoming the newly-elected president Taiwan's Elections 2016. 2016 is definitely going to be a rather turbulent year. Therefore, the way Tsai Ing-wen and her party act is so important that will determine the direction of Taiwan. But there is also something we can do to remain a peaceful relations between Taiwan and mainland China. 
So far, even before Tsai Ing-wen is expected to be officially confirmed in her post, Tsai Ing-wen and her party has been doing a lot during the time when Ma Yingjiu is still in president period. They urged ministry of education to recover the old outline version of nine-year joint curriculum which is talking more about an independent country. They refuse to admit Taiping Island belongs to Taiwan. To conclude, all of those actions they have done are on the purpose of making new generation of Taiwan become the one who is born with the idea of independent Taiwan. Actually Tsai Ing-wen wants to have "Culture Independence in Taiwan" and "Education Independence in Taiwan" in long term. Add to that, she wants to make every Taiwanese born to be Taiwan independence separatist force Taiwan's Elections 2016. 
One way to alleviate the tension relationship between China and Taiwan is being polite to Taiwanese. Due to the fact of World War II and the Great Cultural Revolution took place in mainland China, most people didn't have chance to go to class and learn knowledge. Our culture and economic at least is left behind at least 50 years to compare those countries who were not involved with war. People living through those harsh conditions do not have much knowledge and don't even have an idea the meaning of manner. The direct consequence of this is when those people travel to other places, for example Taiwan and Hong Kong, they have no idea to be polite. Pooing in the public site and shouting aloud in restaurant, not doubt, leads Hong Kong and Taiwan people to have bad expressions that mainland Chinese are barbarian Taiwan election. Compared to mainland China, Taiwan was governed by Japan for decades. The idea of being polite is inculcated rooted into Taiwanese mind. Moreover, what the text book said also pointed out that China a left-behind and rude country. Undoubtedly, they dislike mainland people's behavior. Some are even ashamed to be one of so-called "Chinese". Old people in Chinese society are lack of courtesy is a wild known fact. They like dancing in the Public Square and park with loud music. It is hard for us try to correct their uneducational behaviors. However, youngsters in mainland China can correct their own behaviors. They are well-educated. They can spread out etiquette to Taiwan and Hong Kong to let them know mainland China has been changed. 
Moreover, another method is to make China to be a developed country. In the conference held by Xi Jinping the president of China, two most mentioned sentences are "Taiwan and China is considered as a whole, no one can separate it", and "China needs to develop". Tsai Ing-wen wants to change the outline of curriculum in order to have a long-run emotional war by creating a new country independent generations. However, if mainland China keeps growing strong, and can finally compete with America, how can Tsai Ing-wen makes her people believe China is a left-behind and rural country? 
Admittedly, Tsai Ing-wen and DDP have power which can change the future of Taiwan. And less of courtesy and being rude leading some of Taiwan people to dislike mainland China are reasons that they want to be independence. Only if we change their view of mainland China, there is still more that we can do to keep a peaceful cross-strait relations. Being well-educated when we are interacting with Taiwanese can change their impression from rude Chinese to a mannered Chinese. And we all work hard to make our own country strong so that Taiwanese won't think we are left behind. 
