Women in STEM 
Purdue University 
April 14, 2015 
Introduction 
STEM means science, technology, engineering, and math. The STEM workforce is pretty crucial to modern society. However, there is a gender gap in STEM fields where women are largely underrepresented. Attracting more women to work in STEM is really important. STEM shapes our future, improves our world, and makes our lives easier. 
Engineering is the most gender-segregated area. According to the statistic, only 20 percent of engineers are women (NSF, 2011). While 20 percent of engineering graduates are women, only 11 percent of them are practicing engineers (NSF, 2011). My interest is to find out why fewer women in STEM. 
Discussion 
The first reason is our society has a stereotype that women are less likely to be good at math and science. "Most people associate science and math fields with "male" and humanities and arts fields with "female," according to the research examined in this report." (P16). Such self-assessment limits girls' interests in STEM fields. In the report proves that at an early age, girls and boys differ little in math grades. However, when girls and boys transition from high school to college, the gender gap widens. 
Also, society expects women to take care of their families. The study shows that girls start to feel the family stress even when they were colleges. When they go into job market, companies usually refuse women by saying women cannot commit themselves as men because of family responsibilities. Women in STEM are more stressed and long-hour working is pretty common in STEM. It is shown that women in STEM have fewer children. Only 40 percent of them have children compared with 80 percent of women in other non-STEM occupations over period of 1971- 1991 (Blackwell and Glover, 2008). 
The second reason is that women in STEM earn less than men in STEM. Women in STEM fields earn more than women in non-STEM fields. However, from the statistics in the report, women in STEM fields usually earn 33 percent more than women in non-STEM fields. (P1). The report demonstrates that if a man can earn a dollar, a woman only can earn $0. 84 of it. The gender wage gap discourages women from going into STEM fields. 
The report suggests that women earn less because they committee themselves to families. I disagree with the opinion. For many situations, women work as much as men do, but they still earn less. I find out a statistic shows that unmarried and childless women still have less salaries. Even the wage gap shrinks in the last five years, but the discrimination does exist. Moreover, women are less likely to get into management positions that is part of reason why women earn less compared to men. 
