P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 27, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Speaking is a crucial part of learning a language, especially for Chinese students who are currently studying English, because the pronouncing ways of English and Chinese share lots of differences. Thus, some people believe that Chinese students should pay more attention on speaking to improve their English level. But others hold the opposite idea that Chinese students should treat the four parts equally. Both sides have their strong supports to sustain their ideas. From my humble opinion, I stand by the notion that Chinese students should pay more attention on speaking. 
The most obvious reason is that speaking is the very core of the communication. According to Marshall Mc Luhan's Media Ecology theory, in the tribal age, people could fit their basic communication needs without literacy. It is means that people could live without writing and reading with basic live level. And with the formation of global village, speaking becomes more and more important. The ultimate goal for Chinese student learning English is maintaining a basic skill to live and study in an English-speaking environment. Beyond that with the great help of technology, the position of speaking become more important again, people could speak to others with the higher efficiency than literacy transportation between great distances. To achieve goal, which is maintaining a better communication, Chinese students should pay most of their attention on the most essential part of a language. And the speaking is that part; Chinese student should pay more attention on this part to enhance their English level. (Em Griffin, 2015) 
The most important reason of Chinese students should pay more attention on the speaking is the the poor situation. Chinese belongs to Sino-Tibetan languages, and English is one of the members of Indo-European family. Those two language shared lots of differences, for example, in Chinese there is no /v/ and / / which is very common in English. According to an interview I made to <name> recently, she claimed: "R and L, R always sounds difficult for Chinese students; beyond that, V and W, S and TH, are also difficult for Chinese students, S and W sound are very easy for Chinese students, TH and V are not, so the TH and V become sounds like S and W which sometimes may change the meaning of the word." Chinese students need a great effort to overcome this situation. This issues caused by the long time pronunciation habits, it means it will need great efforts and time to overcome it. To reverse this adversity, Chinese students need to practice their basic pronunciation, accumulated idioms and slangs, do lots of presentation works; all of them are super time-consuming works. They can not wait here and do nothing but wish someday themselves suddenly become English masters. They need to practices everyday; they need to correct every small mistakes in the root and beginning of the English concepts. 
However, some would say Chinese students are not very good at grammar, reading and writing. They still need to improve them. They have lots of problem in their daily using of English, includes grammar mistakes, the different tradition between English articles and Chinese articles. I can not deny that, but that is not the reason why Chinese have no need to pay more attention on the most difficult part. Because language learning is a complex process, all the part of the English learning twisted together. According to the interview I made, practicing speaking would facilitate other three parts in some cases. Speaking to people, let they understand your idea, needs a clear logical process which is crucial for writing, every time Chinese students speak English, they practice their English logic. That would be really helpful for writing. Listening is a more obvious example, only the people who could repeat the words in a right way can catch the meaning of the words well. But writing and reading would not help people maintain a good pronunciation. 
In conclusion, speaking might be the toughest challenge face by Chinese students. In order to come over it, they need to dedicate more time and endeavoring. And they indeed should get the shadow and leisure of old days away to accept the new inspiration. To achieve this goal, Chinese students need good a strategy, consider all the situation, we indeed should regard speaking as the top priority to improve. 
Reference 
Em Griffin Ledbetter, Glen Sparks Andrew. (2015). Media Ecology. Em Griffin Ledbetter, Glen Sparks Andrew, A First Look at Communication Theory (316-326). Mc Graw Hill Education. 
