First Draft 
November 18, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
As winter approaches, millions of high school students around the world are relentlessly trying to improve their test scores in one of the most popular college admission tests, the SAT. Many of them are conscious that a single test can be the determining factor on where they will study and earn their professional degree. However, not many of them have stopped and realized that the SAT might be inaccurate when it comes to showing what students know and whether they will be successful in college or not. 
The primary purpose of standardized testing, as its name suggests, is to measure students under the same questions and material. Universities can't rely solely on GPA since it can greatly vary depending the school, country or even grading system. In that case, standardized testing is a great method to compare students that come from different backgrounds and learning environments (<name>, personal communication, October 20, 2015). Based on some famous scholars such as Robert Barro, there are other advantages of the SAT that are worth pointing out. Barro (2001) suggests why universities should keep using the SAT. Although numerous people have argued that the SAT is ineffective for evaluating applicants, studies from the National Postsecondary Student Aid Study (NPSAS) show that admission test scores strongly predict college grades. On the other hand, for those that believe the SAT is a disadvantage to minorities, test scores have the same predictive power within an ethnic group as they do in the overall population. This is why Robert J. Barro, a professor of economics at Harvard University, states that colleges should keep the SAT since it is a good predictor of grades in college and wages after graduation without being a disadvantage depending on gender or ethnicity. 
Although the SAT has some advantages worth mentioning, there are many more disadvantages that make us doubt about the test and whether some changes should be done. The flaws of the SAT can be separated into three major categories: it doesn't include certain subjects, it is a disadvantage for low income families, and it doesn't provide information on who is more intelligent or will be more successful. 
	The SAT tests students only in math, reading, and writing sections. It doesn't take into consideration subjects regarding liberal arts or science, which means students that are strong in them aren't able to show what they know. <name> and <name>, who are freshman students from Purdue University, described how they felt they could've scored higher if they were tested on subjects regarding their majors. Unlike other famous standardized tests, the SAT doesn't include subjects such as chemistry, which are fundamental for certain careers. 
	On the other hand, the SAT is a big disadvantage for low income families. Bob Schaeffer, the director of the National Center for Pair and Open Testing, says "There is still a strong, direct relationship between family income and test scores." Since the SAT is a test that can be studied for, families with a higher income tend to have tutors and classes for the children in order to increase test scores. Likewise, families that have low income are not able to afford prep-classes and are at a great disadvantage at getting high SAT scores. 
	On the last category, the SAT is clearly not able to prove who is more intelligent or who will be more successful. Just as a student from Haverford School said, "But do these test prep courses or private tutoring sessions actually make you smarter? Of course not. A student who starts off at 2000 and is able to score 2200 after two months' worth of tutoring sessions is likely not at all more intelligent or more capable of handling a college workload than he was two months before. He has simply grown familiar with the test after taking a dozen practice tests, he has systematically memorized a few hundred vocabulary words that he will forget in half a year's time, and he has brushed up on some grammar and math rules that he had learned before and forgotten, a process that will repeat itself once again. The simple fact that a score can be altered through learning certain techniques and becoming familiar with the test exposes its imperfection and gives reason to doubt its overall effectiveness (Antanavicius, 2011)" The SAT is a test that can be studied for and that does not measure how students will do in college. In fact, the University of California- Berkeley decided to cut the SAT in the admission process because there was no direct correlation between freshman year grades and SAT scores (Chan, 2012) 
	After a thorough research about the SAT and its contributions, it is clear that standardized testing and specifically the SAT have some benefits worth recognizing. Nonetheless, the amount of disadvantages this test brings far exceeds the amount of advantages it does. The test doesn't include certain subjects, it is a disadvantage for low-income families and it does not show who is smarter or will be more successful in college. Therefore, potential solutions to this problem would be using subject tests more often or putting more weight on high school transcripts for admission processes. 
