P5d3_arp 
April 18, 2016 
				The usage of social media should be restricted 
	In this day and age, usage of social media has been a common situation in human lives by its convenience of contact, functions of life sharing and entertainment. At the same time, lots of effects are carried out by social media. After I did the research and interview, I found that some people are inclined to be strong believers in the extreme claim that usage of social media brings positive effect on human. Perhaps sound and attractive as their argument seems, but it can hardly bear closer analysis. Accordingly, I, without hesitation, advocate that we should restrict the usage of social media on account of the following reasons and examples. 
	Firstly, social media can create many distractions for college students when studying. Social media has become one of the technique of studying such as blackboard, online class and homework submit. There is a research mentioned in University Students' Motivated Attention and Use of Regulation Strategies on Social Media shows that, the usage of social media of studying because the result showed that nearly 100 percent of college students used the social media for academic purposes (Wu,2015). It seems that social media does not need to be restricted because its positive effect on study. Actually, most students can not put all of their attention into studying while social media is used as the studying technique. According to the survey of 1774 college students in America, 51 percent, 33 percent and 21 percent of these college students reported texting, using Facebook, and emailing when doing schoolwork (Wu, 2015). Another study showed the higher rate distraction caused by social media, 85. 9 percent students in U.S colleges and 72. 5 percent European students diverted their attention when using social media to do schoolwork (Wu, 2015). All the researches indicate that while Internet becomes an important tool in college students' study and almost all of us finish our homework on computers, the distractions brought by social media is sometimes overwhelming and really should be districted. 
	Secondly, usage of social media become a medium of cyber bullying, and it can carry out serious problems. Social media provide the best way for people to share their feelings, emotions, and their personal pictures with friends, family, and even the public. Cyber bullying happen when personal pictures videos are used to make fun, get abusive posts by others and get some negative comments under posted pictures. Actually, it has become a common and serious problem in society. The author surveyed 613 college students if they have cyberbullying experiences. As a result, 35 percent of them were cyberbullied before during social media (Carlos, 2014). Another result indicated 55 percent of teenagers get cyberbullied during the use of social medial.(No Bullying,2015) Under the condition of the wide-happen of cyberbullying, it harm students a lot according to my interview with Mr. <name> my academic advisor. In his option, he thinks college students could feel deep blue when they face cyberbullying, and few of them want to share this with families or teachers so they will keep the upset in their minds <name> 2016). A very famous cyberbullying case was The Megan Meier Case. Tina's 13-year old girl hanged herself in the bedroom closet to end her life because she was cyberbullied by a boy named Josh Evans on the social networking website My Space. (cyberbullying.com, 2015) Usage of social media makes lives become funny, but it also brings cyberbullying which is really harmful to people. Therefore, we can decrease the occurrence probability of cyberbullying by restrict the origin which is use of social media. 
	Thirdly, there is a strong connection between the usage of social media and the formation of self-concept. When the social media affect the formation of self-concept positively, then the usage of social media should be promoted and encouraged. However, the truth is there are many students out there get harmed by others on social media and it made them have low self-concept. According to the article University students' Motivated Attention and use of regulation strategies on social media., the Pearson Correlation between the usage of social media and students' self-concept is 0.658. It seems like 0. 658 is a small number, but in the scale of Pearson number between -1 and 1, it actually indicates a strong correlation between the two factors. It is true that when someone is very popular on social media, he is very likely to build a positive and strong self-concept. However, we cannot even cheer up one person to be depressed to death or commit suicide in reality when they got frustrated online. From my perspective, it is unwise for a human being to depend so largely on the social media when a college student is trying to build self-concept and we cannot let social media to manipulate us especially mentally. Self-concept gives rise to personal value, and it can motivate personal behavior(UK essay,2015) People who have good self-concept can maximize the results because they know what their abilities are, and what they can do(UK essay,2015) As a result, in today's life full with social media, even a college student might get lost and started to be doubtful about his life. It is necessary to restrict the usage of social media because the severe consequences brought by the misusage are dreadful. 
	In conclusion, I believe that we should use less or depend less on social media because it brings many unexpected results. Undeniably, we cannot blame social media for everything happens because people also need to take responsibilities. However, if the damages brought by social media could be diminished largely, then why not using less? Social media brings distractions for our academic life because it is addictive and those with weak self-control might get lose in the social media world. It is also the medium for cyberbullying, one of the worst things could happen on campus. Cyberbullying could destroy a student mentally and lead him/her to commit suicide. Last but not the least, social media weight too much on people's formation of their self-concepts and it is just simply not wise to value social media excessively. What I mean is not to ban social media, but to restrict it. 
1 Wu, J. (2015). University students' Motivated Attention and use of regulation strategies on social 
media. Computers & Education, 89, 75-90 
2 Carlos P. Zalaquett, Seriashla J. Chatters(19 March 2014) Cyberbullying in College restrived from http://sgo.sagepub.com/content/4/1/2158244014526721 
3 No Bullying.com(December 22,2015) Cyber Bullying Statistics 2014 restrived from http://nobullying.com/cyber-bullying-statistics-2014/ 
4 <name> (February 12, 2016) Interview with Mr <name> about cyberbullying 
5Cyberbullying.com(December 22,2015) The top six unforgettable cyberbullying cases retrieved from http://nobullying.com/six-unforgettable-cyber-bullying-cases/ 
6 Wang, Z., Tchernev, J. M., & Solloway, T. (2012). A dynamic longitudinal examination of social 
media use, needs, and gratifications among college students. Computers in Human Behavior, 28(5), 
1829-1839 
7.UKESSAY(23,March,2015) retrieved from https://www.ukessays.com/essays/sociology/the-formation-of-the-self-concept-sociology-essay.php 
