Social Skills Regain 
There is a funny twitter about how newly arrived international students "shock" local people. Here is the story: a student called a taxi on phone, and then the driver asked, "Where are you from?" "Hmm. China." The student said. The driver probably is kind of speechless, and said, ". Sorry, we can't do that". Then the funniest part of this conversation happened, the student didn't realize what the driver is asking about, and asked "Why?" As we can predict, the conversation didn't continue and the student didn't get a taxi. The problem here is that the student didn't get the idea that what the driver asked about is department place, not nationality. Since as an international student, the most familiar answer to "Where are you from?" is always their hometown, this kind of situation might happen at times. However if the student were in China, it wouldn't become a problem, because he knows exactly how to reacts under certain circumstances in Chinese. Social skills need to be regained during adaption to another culture, so that you can behave in a more local way, and finally conquer the culture shock. 
1. Social skill is the inner point of a culture. 
When people talk about culture, they always focus on how people behave 
People from countries that share more similar social skills are more likely to be friends 
A community of people, who behave in a certain way, forms culture. Social skills are the inner point of culture, and nationality is not the boundary of different culture. 
2. Regaining local social skills is the most efficient way to conquer culture shock. 
Regaining social skills is more like a how a children form a sense of how the world works, including basic things like how to greet with people, how to order in a restaurant, how to make a phone call in a right manner and so on. 
Get a good feeling of fit in is making a good impression on others, which can be achieved by do what other people do. Regaining local social skills helps people get a good impression from others. Sometimes, the reason why awkward situations regarded as culture shock happened just because people cannot interpret the meaning of the people's behavior by using local social clues. It would be weird or even rude if you do things in the way that you think is reasonable, and if you don't explain it in time, people are probably willing to help someone rude, which make the situation even worse, like being excluded. 
Leaving a good impression makes others more willing to help you on other things. Building friendship with others and feeling involved would be your best reason to accept and form a local way in behaving, which will get you through culture shock 
3. However, this kind of training might be inadequate to break down culture shock, and it might not get you fully accept new customs, but if you get welcoming responses from local people by doing things following what you have practiced, it prompt you to accept new culture. Finally, you may adjust to a new way in behaving and accept the host culture from heart. 
4. Dialogue and situation practice will help a lot in breaking culture shock 
Culture shock is counted as an old-fashion word now, since we have a lot of resources to learn about culture difference. We probably wouldn't be so shocked when we encountered differences that we can predict. Getting used of using a dissimilar set of social skills is what culturalization meant. Culturalization is comprises the means by which we develop those traits of reactional equipment that make us into particular types of social personalities. 
A series of training methods were developed by Furnham, he assumed that setting basic social situation for people can help people practice skills for real interpersonal communication. 
