Balance between entertainment and education 
Purdue University 
Both entertainment and education are necessary in our daily life, especially for the college students, like us. There is no doubt about the importance of education. On the other hand, we need to relax. We need to know what is happening around us. We need to keep in touch with our friends. That means, our life will not be complete if we take away either one of them. However, having too much entertainment can be harmful to us. Analyzed the materials provided in my previous paper, I believe that we need to reduce the time spent on recreation in order to prevent the harm and we need to do helpful things instead, like playing sports and after-school activities. 
First of all, I would like to mention that spending too much time on entertainment can ruin both of our body and mind. According to "8 Ways Video Games Are Bad For Your Health" released from the Health Center1, the author has listed 9 kinds of disadvantages of playing computer games, which are: muscle pain, seizures, obesity, aggressive behavior, poor grades in school, lack of vitamin D, changes in physical appearance, sleep deprivation, attention problems. Those kinds of weaknesses clearly show the bad effects on body and mind. According to statistics released by the Department of Labor2, the Dept. of Labor has tracked two types of activities: "Educational Activities" and "Watching television". I refer to the statistics in my situation and analyze how these two activities compared. In the year 2013, I spent 1 hr. /day on study and 2. 6 hrs. /day on watching television. That is a ratio of 1:2.6. This survey released by Department of Labor clearly shows how serious the problem is. Referring to another research published by CNET News.com stuff3, we learn that how video games hurt brain development. In the research, scientists claim that video games can only develop the parts of movement and vision but helpless to develop the others. So we should spend less time on recreation in order to prevent from hurting our mental and physical development. 
Secondly, reducing time spent on recreation and spending more time on education have significant effect on our scores. According to the research "More time spent on television and video games, less time spent on studying?" published by Inui, Ryoji Matsuoka, Makiko Nakamuro on 16 January 20144, the researchers in Japan want to find out the main determinant of studying and they did a lot of researches for that. During these researches, they want to find out that if there is an explicit relationship between time spent on school work and the score of the student. The result is that every additional minute of the time used on study help to increase students' scores by about 0. 15 standard deviation. After considering the result of the researches, I can conclude that the time spent on study is the main factor which affects the score of study. 
However, someone may argue that entertainment like video game is not all bad. They like to mention that a number of positive influences can also be connected to computer games. Admittedly, video games help to improve our hand-eye coordination and some parts of our brain. However, there is little help to our study and physical development. As the result, the advantages of games are far less than the disadvantages. 
What's more, we can do something both helpful for our study and for relax. In order to solve the problem of having too much entertainment, students can choose to do some healthy things, which can relax themselves and help them in some ways. It is easier to understand this point if we take playing basketball as an example. There is no doubt that we can relax ourselves by doing exercises like basketball; On the other hand, basketball can help us to keep physical healthy and even lose weight. In the article "Competing for an audience: Entertainment vs. Education" published by Mary Jane Jacob5, the writer put forward an opinion that some places can be used both for entertainment and education. And she illustrates her point by providing an example and discussing the problem of museums. By visiting museums, people can receive the knowledge as well as relaxing themselves. Referring to this article, I think that we can visit some places which contain both recreational stuff and educational stuff in order to solve the problem of balancing the time between entertainment and study. 
According to the illustrations mentioned above, I can draw a conclusion. Because of having bad influence on both our body and mental development, students should decrease the time spent on entertainment. What's more, paying more attention to study can help students to do better on their school works. And I suggest students to relax themselves in healthy ways, like playing sports. These solutions and suggestions are only my personal opinion and only suit for a part of people; however, I think it would be helpful more or less. 
1 HTTP://WWW.healthcentral.com/adhd/cf/slideshows/8-ways-video-games-are-bad-for-your-health#slide=10 
2 http://www.bls.gov/news.release/atus.t08.htm 
3 http://news.cnet.com/2100-1040-271849.html 
4 http://www.voxeu.org/article/video-gaming-and-studying-evidence-japan 
5 http://www.maryjanejacob.org/sub_pages/writings/writing_audiences/directors_choice.html 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
BALANCE BETWEEN ENTERTAINMENT AND EDUCATION 2 
BALANCE BETWEEN ENTERTAINMENT AND EDUCATION	3 
RUNNING HEAD: BALANCE BETWEEN ENTERTAINMENT AND EDUCATION 1 
