Argumentative Essay 
Purdue University 
(Draft 1) 
Argumentative Essay 
Flying airplane seems cool and fun, especially for Purdue students because Purdue University provides students with all the sources they need. Students can have a lot of fun learning how to fly airplane at Purdue. They will find out flying airplane is safe interesting and not that difficult. 
Some may say flying airplane is expensive and useless. Students will need to spend a lot of money to do flight training, because they need to pay both for instructor and renting the airplane. Also most flight school require students to purchase insurance, this can also cost a lot. Even students have enough money to do the flight training, getting a pilot license can be useless for most students since it is impossible for students to buy an airplane on their own. It is true flight training is expensive, however with the support of Purdue Pilot Inc, students can save a lot of money. 
Once students join PPI, they can get a lot of benefits for their flight training. First of all, PPI covers students' liability insurance which is up to 100000 dollars. Second, students can save 20-40 dollars once by renting PPI's airplane. Getting a pilot certificate requires students to get at least 40 hours flight training, so students can save up to 800 dollars by flying PPI's airplane. (Purdue Pilot Inc, 2015) Private flying has become popular these years. Of course most private pilot do not have enough money to buy an airplane so they simply rent an aircraft and fly it. 
It is not difficult to fly an airplane. The student will need to first find a flight school. They flight school will arrange student to a instructor. The instructor will play important role in student' flight training. They need need to take full responsibility during students flight training. What do flight training covers? "A course of instruction should include the ground and flight training necessary to acquire the knowledge and skills required to safely and efficiently function as a certificated pilot."(FAA,2006) Students will need to do a lot of flight training especially at the beginning of flight training. (FAA, 2006). Besides doing actual flight, student also needs to pass the paper test in order to get the pilot certificate. Federal Aviation Administration provides students with the materials they need to study. Students can get all the materials on FAA's website for free. (FAA. 2015) With the help of these materials and the flight instructor, it can be much easier for student to learn flying. From my personal experience I had flight training several times flying an airplane is not difficult. The student do not need to have any knowledge about engine sort of staff, but they need to be careful and follow all the instructions. 
Some air crash happened recently, so people may concern about the safety of learning how to fly. Actually flight training is pretty safe, it is even safer than lots of other transportation(FAA, 2006) the instructor will try to guarantee students safety, even when student made some mistakes. If student can follow all the instruction given by the control tower, the risk can be much lower even when the weather is bad. Bran Davis a senior student major in Professional Flight Technology also an flight instructor shared several flight experience with me. There was once he made a big mistake while he was still a student pilot, fortunately, with the help of his instructor they avoid the dangerous situation. There was once he did a night flight when he was really tired so when it was the time for him to take off for landing, he forgot to bring the aircraft's nose up that was a big mistake because if he doesn't bring the airplane's nose up it may hit the ground. He was scared at that point and his instructor took over the control of airplane and brought the nose up. Since the instructor is with student all the time and he/she can always take the control of airplane, so they can help student avoid the bad situations. Another story he told me was about flying in the bad weather. There was one summer, he and his friends were one a trip to Florida. There came a thunderstorm during his trip. The thunderstorm created a lot of change in wind speed and direction. The changing wind made it difficult for pilot to control the airplane because everything is so unpredictable. It was lucky that Davis got a radar in he airplane. The radar could tell him where all the thunderstorm activities are so he could avoid them. With the help of technology the risk can be much lower. The student need to carefully check the airplane before take off. Checking can make sure it is safe to do a flight training. 
The first chapter of Airplane Flying Handbook(FAA,2008) tell us how pilot check their airplane. The pilot need to first make sure all the certificates and airplane logbook are on board. Since there are so many things pilot have to check before going to fly, the pilot usually need to bring a checklist with themselves. The pilot need to need to walk around the airplane to make sure there is no damage on its surface. After that the pilot should get into the cockpit to make sure compass, barometer, and other gauge are working appropriately, then the pilot need to go out again. This time the pilot need check the wing and tail see whether they can move in right direction. Also check the tank to make sure there is enough gas in it. Taking some oil out of tank to check its quality, the oil's color should be blue. Then open the engine hood to see the engine. Take a look at the landing gear, the pilot can now get into the cockpit again. Before starting the engine the pilot need to check all the gauge again and ask the passenger to put on the seat rails. Pilot need to say "clear" loudly to the outside of window to make sure there is nobody outside. After that the pilot can start the engine and contact the control tower to get the command for fly. (FAA, 2004) 
It is pretty interesting to do flight training. Purdue students really should have a try. It is so great to fly in the sky. 
Reference Page 
https://engineering.purdue.edu/PPI/learn.php (Purdue Pilot Inc. 2015) 
Student Pilot Guide (Federal Aviation Administration, 2006) 
Airplane Flying Handbook (Federal Aviation Administration,2004) 
http://www.faa.gov/training_testing/ (Federal Aviation Administration, 2015) 
[Type text][Type text][Type text] 
3 
Argumentative Essay 
1 
Argumentative Essay 
