Unrealistic Advertising Images Cause Negative Body Image Issues in Teenagers 
April 9, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author's Note 
Contact : mehta54@purdue.edu 
Abstract 
Advertising has a very persuasive nature and can have both positive as well as negative effects. 
However, the negative effects of advertising overshadow the positive ones. One of such effects is health related issue in teens which are an indirect result of advanced editing, constantly bombarding teenagers with a certain 'ideal' body type. Therefore, in order to show the ridiculousness of the current acceptable norms of beauty, the argument for my paper is how do the unrealistic advertising images cause negative body image issues in teenagers and what are the possible solutions to this problem. Furthermore, the purpose of my paper is to find solutions and all the negative effects that teenagers face due to false advertising of body images and excessive use of an 'ideal' body image. Finally the goal is to convince my audience to stand up and call for action against such advertising immediately in order to change the views of the society and be more accepting of the way different people look. 
Key Words: Advertisements, Teenagers, Food Disorders , Insecurities. 
The Effect of Advertisements on Teenage Psychology 
Introduction 
Teenagers constitute a very big part of the market and they are highly impressionable. This fact makes this market segment highly viable as advertisements tend to have a very strong impact on the developing teenage brains. Their understanding of the media and its effects is limited due to their immature nature. The work of marketing organizations shows that teenagers are extremely important to companies' marketing. They have the power to influence teenager's families to change their spending patterns and brands. Being a teenager myself, I've grown up with insecurities about my body and have had friends who starve themselves in order to achieve a perfect size zero. These insecurities have been impacted by these stereotypes the media creates. Furthermore, these companies think that promoting such unhealthily thin models as the unattainable idea body type is what increases the product consumption. Everyone, including you must have looked at an advertisement or a photo in the magazine/newspaper at some point in your lifetime and thought about how it would feel to have the perfect body shape. Therefore the aim of this paper is to find out whether these unrealistic advertising images cause negative body image issues in teenagers and what are the possible solutions to this problem. 
Research Review of Negative Effects of Advertising 'Ideal' Body Images 
In order to be successful at achieving these marketing goals, the media companies design advertisements that portray certain images to their young and impressionable minds and take advantage of their nature to believe everything that the media projects at them In an article by Eric Wilson (2009), he uses examples of marketing by using "heartless retouching" (Wilson, E .2009. p.1) that plays a big part at how females are being visually defined today. Such advertisements are aimed at teenagers by media and can be seen in the use of fifty percent of the space in teenage magazines for advertisements. Commercial breaks on popular teen television shows are also constantly used in order to target teenagers. These advertisements impact the teenagers psychologically, that is on individual basis as well as at a group level. At the individual level, the impact on teenagers includes influencing the buying decisions of the parents and family while at the group level these effects are seen in terms of the change in attitude, thinking and actual behavior of the teenagers. Due to the group impact of these advertisements, teenagers who think that a particular product is good, further influence other teenagers to buy those products. Clay, Vignoles and Dittmar (2005) have also found similar results. Their research has shown a direct correlation between body image and thin ideal images that are portrayed in media and advertising. According to these researches, the superficial and unhealthily thin models influence the teenagers into thinking that this is what male or female self worth should be based upon. As a result of which, a decline in self esteem and body satisfaction is seen. 
Moreover, there were some similarities seen in an article by Harriger, J.A., Calogero, R.M., Witherington, D.C., and Smith J. (2010). We see that in particular advertisements relating to fashion, beauty and lifestyle have the most powerful effect on how teenagers think that they should look. Teenage girls get heavily influenced by the advertisements shown in women's magazines as they are their source for information pertaining to the latest in beauty products and fashion accessories. Over the years advertisements have progressed towards increasingly thinner models, both male as well as female. Advertisers believe that these so called 'ideal' looking models sell products. Teenagers are insecure about the way they look and advertisers target this insecurity by bombarding them with images of 'perfect' looking models which makes them dissatisfied with their own body shape. This results in the increase in psychological disorders in teenage girls. Similarly, in an article about 'Body Image and Advertising', (2000), it was seen that promoting such unhealthily thin models as the unattainable ideal body type is what increases the product consumption. 
Furthermore, in an article based on by Maria Chang (2009), talks about the unattainable concept of beauty using images of unhealthily thin models which are further air brushed and photo-shopped, impact teenagers the most and they are constantly striving to achieve these body ideals. Cynthia Hanson states that,"Advertisers should determined in their use beauty stimulates or manipulates consumers...this research and regulatory activity may show that the use of more accurate and representative portrayals of women in advertisements will help alleviate this problem, particularly for younger females who are struggling with new physical and psychological identities as women" (as cited in Chang,(2009) p. 150). They are constantly trying to fit in even though there are psychological dangers of trying to attain these stick thin figures. Even teenage boys are feeling pressurized. Today media is targeting males as having a lean and muscular physique and a disorder called 'exercise bulimia' has emerged which involves excessive working out and exercising. The increase in eating disorders, use of steroids and cosmetic surgeries are also directly a result of the images shown in the media. According to an article by Naomi Weinshenker, (2014), such a negative effect of advertisements seems to be spreading amongst the pre teen girls as well. They assert in their article a quote by 12 year old girl, that "The best body is the one that embraces ribs, skin and bones, and that's the only thing I care about." (as cited by Weinshenker, (2014), p.1). This only proves to show how much change is needed in not just our advertisements but the way our society accepts a particular 'ideal' body image. 
Call to Action 
With the secondary research that I've conducted over the past couple of weeks, I have found that this in fact is a serious problem in our society. Year after year, this issue seems to be spreading, as there has been an increase in number of pre teens as well as male teenagers who have been effected by such advertisements. However, as my interviewee, <name> pointed it out, that our society tends to ignore and overlook this problem by treating it lightly. With her first hand experience in this issue, she suggests that one of the solutions is to "Take the Risk". It means that the companies need to take a risk and believe that their products will sell even if they do not stick to the current norms of the advertising world. In order to overcome this problem, there are solutions which involve increasing awareness of the electronically altering procedures used in these images. In support of my argument, many researches have proposed solutions to solve this matter. (Chang, M (2009): Harriger, J., Calogero, R., Witherington, D., & Smith, J. (2010): Mehairi, S. (2013)). Firstly, one of the solutions is to create laws that can be made mandatory for advertisers to specify the alterations made regarding the body shape and size in any particular advertisement or image. These laws should be taken into action along with the relevant advertisements immediately. Secondly, it is imperative for the parents and the community to realize how such advertising is having adverse effects on the minds of their children. The psychological health of our future generations is much more important than the sale of consumer products and efforts should be made by the media companies along with our society immediately. 
