Necessity of physical education in schools 
Purdue University 
04/10/2015 
In these years Chinese people have been paying increasing attention to education for their children. A public controversy regarding whether physical education and exercise are needed for students in schools arises under the influence of this increasingly obvious pure-academic centered Chinese educational system. Some people may claim that everyone knows the benefits of exercise and school can hardly make a difference in their attitude towards exercise and their exercise regimes. Parents, in particular, always want their kids to behave and study hard in school, which minimizes their exercise intensity. (Lee 2011) On the other hand, those whose disagree with this point of view would advocate for physical education and exercise. From my personal perspective, it is absolutely necessary for Chinese students to receive adequate physical education and take exercise regularly. I will present some evidence and reasons as following. 
	First and foremost, advanced and effective physical education corrects student's' perceptions and attitudes toward exercise. Physical exercise do enhances fitness and makes people healthier but if an individual does not have an appropriate exercise consciousness and regular routine, he would possibly undergo counterproductive workout. For example , there is an survey aims to explore behaviors and attitudes towards exercise among older Chinese immigrants in the UK, in which most of respondents exercise in unreasonable regimes, which may cause a highly risky situation. Their attitudes towards health and exercise were based on traditional Chinese values and their incorrect opinions. (Liu, Zhen mi; Speed, Shaun; Beaver, Kinta; 2012) If they receive decent physical education and correct guidance, it would be better. Therefore, physical education does not just help students understand those superficial ideas. To help students establish good exercise values is the core of physical education. 
	What's more, physical education and exercise may also benefit students by balancing their life. This statement is based on the current Chinese educational system. Nowadays students are required to concentrate much more on their academic performance and their grades. To be specific, they are forced to do a lot of academic work and exhausted because of heavy brainwork. Whereas their most frequently practiced sports may be broadcast exercise taking just 10 minutes out of their busy study routine. (Lee 2011) If this kind of situation persists for a long run, serious problems may occur, such as mental and physical illness, a decline of study efficiency and inactive study. In order to meet the balance between physiology and psychology, physical education and physical exercise is definitely needed to adjust students' lives. For instance, after doing a series of complex assignments, a student could relax and enjoy themselves by exercising on the playground, rather than sit in the classroom all day. Also most of physical education courses do not force students to memorize knowledge. On the contrary, physical education provides students with some more interesting knowledge, which is a major difference that distinguishes PE and normal education. 
	On the other hand, psychologically, PE could be a regulator that helps develop personal character. As I've mentioned before, the education system is progressive . Students are actually required to be more comprehensive and more well-around, despite the fact that academic ability is primarily emphasized. Thus, physical education and physical exercise would be a perfect vehicle for developing abilities. We can see that, when students interact by exercising and doing sports during physical education, they are imperceptibly developing their sport spirit leadership, networking skills, (Rick Nauert, 2010) teams spirit and numerous things. They would understand the importance of mutual competition (Evans, 2013), respect and fairness and all of these elements are indispensable for integrating a person's healthy characteristics, which are extremely important in his future. In particular, a student may gain confidence as long as he is exercising correctly and he may get more confident. It could be the key factor that determines his career path because confidence is so influential for one's work performance. 
	To sum up, Chinese high schools need more physical education classes and Chinese students deserve sufficient exercise. My analysis indicates that the better physical education and physical exercise students receive, the better exercise regime, the more efficient time management, and better characters they have. I strongly suggest schools to have more physical education courses and physical exercise. Moreover, an effective compulsory regulation policy should be enforced to guarantee that every physically qualified student could get involved to physical education courses as well as physical exercise in case of unreasonable occupation of PE class and exercise by teachers of exam course. 
Reference 
Annie Lee (2011) Necessity of physical education in schools 
http://www.chinahush.com/2011/10/26/the-two-extremes-of-chinese-characteristic-physical-education/ 
Liu, Zhen mi; Speed, Shaun; Beaver, Kinta; (2012) 
Perceptions and attitudes towards exercise among Chinese elders - the implications of culturally based self-management strategies for effective health-related help seeking and person-centered care, DOI: 10.1111/hex. 12028 
Rick Nauert (2010) 
Physical Activity Helps Improve Social Skills 
http://psychcentral.com/news/2010/03/15/physical-activity-helps-improve-social-skills/12120.html 
Darren Evans (2013) 
Physical Education - 'Competition is not a dirty word' 
https://www.tes.co.uk/article.aspx?storycode=6356569 
Necessity of physical education in schools	 
3 
