Why Chinese People Choose German Vehicle? 
Why Chinese people choose German vehicle? 
The car industry provided a wide variety of new technologies for application platform, can create value, taxes and jobs as much on big role in boosting the national economy, than any other industries are can offer. Chinese Minister of Commerce Lu Fuyuan said: "1. 2 billion people of China to engage in modernization, people are more important than logistics. Five people in the cars than trucks which put four tons of stone have greater productivity." So we can see the importance of the car in the eyes of the Chinese people. China's auto market is constantly growing. Basic saturated market with the west, Chinese automobile industry development trend of increased year by year. According to Deutsche Welle April 19 2013 , "In Germany, on average every thousands of residents has more than 500 cars; while the average every one thousand Chinese people have 50 cars." The emerging market development space and potential is almost endless. Chinese people's love for German cars are well-known, annual income statements from some of the major German car manufacturers show can be seen, the strength of the Chinese people cannot be ignored in terms of buying a car. The fond of Chinese consumers to German cars are obvious, but what is the cause of promoting German cars? I want to find out the main reasons. 
Have a capacious and comfortable, luxurious car is the dream of much Chinese people life. According to Eric (personal interview, Oct 27 2014) " German carmaker accounts for a 80% share have Chinese high-end car market, and they sell very high in China are believed to profit. Chinese car buyers for the German production of sport utility vehicles and sedans is recognized as a powerful engine willing and luxurious interiors dig more money. "While traditional German brand, BMW, Audi and Mercedes should were among the best in the dream of many people on the list. In the three competing for the market competition in China, the Volkswagen group subsidiary - Audi was slightly better. According to the Audi's official news Nov 19, 2014 , "In June, the Audi car sales in China to 27658 vehicles, all-time monthly sales record."Audi is a hot brand for the Chinese government organizations, enterprises and institutions, many Chinese government official cars is a black Audi. And there are Many Chinese would say, "A sign of success is to have a black A6." 
According to Wall Street Journal by Fuhrmans July 09 2010 , "The fast-growing number of affluent Chinese car buyers tends to prefer long luxury sedans loaded with extras, making them more profitable for the makers."(P B.2) Chinese consumers like to buy the cause of the German car or German vendors will adapt to the consumption habits of Chinese people. After all, they provide comfort and luxury in the eyes of consumers that cannot be replaced. Chinese consumers are not only the car as a traffic tool, but as a symbol, a symbol of wealthy and status. They focused on how other people think of him or her, if they buy Japanese cars, so other people will look that his social position is not high. And if the drive is a German car, it means that the person should have social status, and maybe have a lot of money. And Chinese traditional culture also affects the thought of Chinese consumers to buy a car, they greatly beautiful, very value of the vehicle configuration and space. A German car owner in China is a symbol of quality and quality in the heart, but often neglect the needs of the car. I think the Chinese domestic auto manufacturers or producers in other countries should be more effort to change the mentality of Chinese consumers, for the future development of auto industry also play a crucial role. 
According to Just-auto global news article by Bromsgrove Jan 05 2012 , "Audi established a new record for the Chinese market in 2011: With deliveries to customers reaching 313,036 (up 37 percent) the company sold more cars in China and Hong Kong than in any previous year and again secured the position of China's premium segment leader." P2 We can see from this article, the Chinese people's spending power is very striking. Chinese people's love for the German car manufacturer has exceeded the expected annual sales value. Now the German automobile manufacturers who would take the total annual sales in the Chinese market were showing off. Indeed, China is rich, but also led to the development of world economy. And some manufacturers to seize the Chinese customers care about the identity of the characteristics to launch a variety of limited edition models, such as the BMW 7-Series 60th Anniversary Edition, or red limited edition Mercedes-Benz A-class, and so all kinds of gimmicks. 
Another reason is Chinese people love big things and it is not only the cars but also everything. It is already integrated into every aspect of life. On a dinner party, Chinese people want to large banquet guests, both the diners three thousand old spectacle; For housing, the Chinese people also want to live in big houses, the bigger the house are more magnificent. And have the same proportion of cars and house, big space model also is popular among Chinese consumers, because they believe a car is not for individual needs but it is more family needs. From is seen as a luxury car, gradually to the popularization, and buy a car is no longer a difficult decision for the Chinese consumers, more and more people for supporting face, splendor, began to chase brand, being much larger and more costly. For example, the BMW 3 Series, the German version of the original selling car length is 4626 mm, but in the original Chinese version sold on the basis of a longer, vehicle length data becomes 4734 mm. Vendor to lengthen, the vehicle's body and joined the Chinese consumers prefer the back cosmetic mirror. The changes of appeal are to conform to the Chinese people think big was beauty. In fact, such a change makes German car manufacturers so miserable, because changes are not only to spend huge funds, and some details of the car and security issues must be changed. Many foreign brands to cater to Chinese consumers' consumption habits roll out C wheelbase about 3. 0 meters, engine displacement of 2. 3 to 3. 0 liters of above. , D Wheelbase is greater than 2. 8 meters, are more than 3. 0 liters. or even E Super luxury level, such as the Rolls-Royce and Bentley models. And as the enrichment of spiritual life and the road gradually prevailed, SUV and become the main stream of people buy cars, full size, great space and a series of large SUV also hot market, the people rushed to buy. But manufacturers around the world are trying to change the Chinese consumer habits, the introduction of small luxury cars for Chinese consumers to buy. According to Wall Street Journey by Rauwald Dec 08 2009 "Small luxury cars are still an oxymoron to many wealthy Chinese, but industry executives say the risks -- including lower profit margins -- are worth it because of the growth expected in compact, premium-brand vehicles." (P B2) They are subtle changes in the Chinese people's consumption habits. Let some small luxury cars, such as the BMW 1 Series, Audi q3 and other models are perceived and received the Chinese market. 
In my opinion, the practice of foreign automakers actually does not put pressure on China's independent brands though high parts prices will force the Chinese look to the Chinese own car brand. Or some Japanese brands such as Toyota and Honda. Japanese cars in the overall level of service and spare parts' price set to significantly better in Germany. I summarized that the cause of the Chinese buy German cars are generally because in their heart, German car represents the money and power. They think when buy a German car, their identity and status are reflected. But for me, I think the idea is very funny, we only consider the identity and status, and forget that the purpose of the car itself. 
