Argumentative essay 
Nowadays, the demand of steel is increasing. In this case, many factories around the world try to increase their production function to make it more efficient. To achieve higher efficiency, factories should use more electric arc furnaces instead of other kinds of furnaces. By the combination of three articles, Purification of Post-consumer Steel Scrap, science, Potential for Steel Industry Energy Intensity Improvement: Electricity Use in Minimills, it is easy to come out the idea that the increasing usage of electric arc furnaces. Also, factories are reducing percentage of contaminants and increasing the kinds of reinforcement because of the demanding requirement for making new machines. 
To begin with, there are three kinds of furnaces used in steel production. They are basic oxygen, open hearth and electric arc furnaces. Among all of them, open hearth furnaces cost too much energy when producing the same amount of steel compare to other methods. For this reason, they had been abandoned since 1980s. However, since 1970, when electric arc furnaces were introduced and installed in factories, the efficiency had increased by large amount. Most of scientists and engineers found the advantages of electric arc such as less pollution produced and less energy cost. According to Bruce Hannon and James R. Brodrick's opinion, for actual production, 55. 6 percent open hearth, 32. 6 percent basic oxygen and 11. 9 percent electric arc should be used to achieve minimum energy (485-491). However, the idea related to open hearth is incorrect in recent years because most factories in developed countries have abandoned open hearth furnaces. Open hearth furnaces are furnaces that can burn out carbon and other impurities from pig iron to produce steel. 
For the first reason, electric arc furnaces can be used because they only require electric power for electrolysis. However, the other two treatments need large amount of heat to burn out contaminants and to melt pig iron to produce steel. Since electricity has more energy efficiency than that of burning fossil fuels, factories should try to use more electric arc furnaces to produce steel. According to the research done by Dr. Andreas Opfermann and Dirk Riedinger, the energy transfer to the chemical is roughly from thirty percent to sixty percent (3). Although the energy efficiency for basic oxygen furnaces is slightly higher, roughly 75 percent of total energy input, the total energy used to heat the pig iron is greater than that used to electrolyze it. Also, the introduction of oxygen may cause the production of carbon monoxide, which counts for air pollution in global scale. 
In addition, electric arc furnaces tend to have more intense energy in processing. In industrial production, the highest temperature in the middle of area that is receiving high energy electrons is more than three thousand Celsius degrees. It is flexible in producing steel because this method can move contaminants out easily such phosphorus and sulfur, two major elements that greatly affect the machinability of steel produced. Also the temperature of the whole furnace can be controlled easily because the heated region is so small that could not change temperature of whole body by large amount. On the other hand, basic oxygen furnaces are hard to control since most of the heat input comes from oxygen lance. The heat has great influence on furnaces, making it easy for shoddy furnace to explode or break into pieces. For this reason, factories should use better materials which are difficult to be oxidized and robust at extremely high temperature when build furnaces. This procedure indirectly changes the efficiency for new oxygen furnaces. 
On the contrary, Bruce Hannon and James R. Brodrick thought that using basic oxygen was a good way for consuming less energy. They stated that more than half of steel should be produced by this method to achieve greatest predicted and actual efficiency. This idea is wrong because technology has improved recent years. More and more factories are increasing percentage of electric arc furnaces because of mature controlling techniques. Also, the cost to run a program of electric arc had decreased a lot since 1970, when it had been installed. 
Overall, factories should use electric arc furnaces more to produce steel. Although many steel production companies still use basic oxygen furnaces to produce steel, most of them will shift to electric arc production in near future. If more factories choose to use this kind of treatment, more energy can be saved for civil using. 
