Date: 4/8/2016 
Assignment: argument 
Draft: #1 
The X-ray Crystallography Helps Avoid Diseases 
	Viruses are everywhere and they never stop bothering our life, because they are always looking for chances to infect our body system to process reproduction and diseases. Virus is very tiny so it is hard to observe and defend them. To better understand virus and protect us away from disease, scientists invented a technology to visualize molecular level things, which is called X-ray crystallography. Because the structural information of bacterial and viral proteins can be collected and analyzed in detail by analyzing the density of electrons in X-ray crystallography, I believe the X-crystallography is the best technology to study the atomic and molecular structures including the bacterial and viral proteins. However, some people argue that there are many limitation of X-ray crystallography. For the argument of the limitation of X-ray crystallography, I will provide examples and data to support my statements. 
	First of all, the X-ray crystallography is extremely important because it can help researchers determine the viral protein structure. It is commonly acknowledged that the activities of life forms mainly rely on the complex and specific proteins, while the complexity and specificity of proteins are based on their structure. X-ray crystallography is wildly used for observation of atomic and molecular structure of a crystal, including viral protein. By exposing the crystallized viral proteins to X-rays, the diffraction of X-ray beams could be obtained. A crystallographer can produce a three-dimensional picture of the density of electrons within the crystal by measuring the angles and intensities of these diffracted beams. The electron density helps researchers to determine the mean positions of the atoms in the crystal, as well as their chemical bonds, their disorder and various other information. X-ray crystallography is proved to be an effective way to study viral proteins by scientific researches. In 2015, Dr. Michael G. Rossmann in Purdue University studied the EV-68(Enterovirus 68, which was a virus that could cause respiratory disease among children) and determined its viral protein structure by X-ray crystallography. Based on the 3D image of EV-68 protein portrayed by X-ray crystallography, Dr. Rossmann's research team found a specific viral protein molecular shaped like a pocket, which was proved to be a receptor for signals of infection. The molecular was named as "pocket factor". Based on the finding of pocket factor, it is practicable to develop a new drug which can exactly inhibit the binding of ligand to the pocket factor and prevent the respiratory diseases. 
	Besides, compared to other similar technology, X-ray crystallography is more flexible. When I interviewed <Name>, who is a postdoctoral research associate working in Professor <Name>'s lab in Discovery Park on Purdue campus. Dr.<Name> has studied viral protein by X-ray crystallography for a long time so she is definitely an expert in the X-ray crystallography area. During interview, Dr. Wang mentioned that the cost of X-ray crystallography was lower than other technology. For example, although NMR technology (Nuclear Magnetic Resonance) has similar function with X-ray crystallography and can measure objectives that cannot be crystallized, the cost of the experimental implementation is increasing with the higher strength and the complexity of the determination in NMR, while the cost of X-ray crystallography is much lower. Also, X-ray crystallography is very flexible because it can be used to corporate with other technologies. For instance, X-ray crystallography is usually worked with cryo EM (cyroelectron microscopic), which is a technology to gain polarity of samples in structural biology by putting the samples at cryogenic temperature and observed the samples by electron microscopy (EM). The combination of X-ray crystallography and cryo EM could significantly increase the accurate of data. Researchers usually put the crystal into cryo EM map and obtain several kinds of data including the quality of fit, the number of noncrystallographyic symmetry atomic and their positions, which are necessary for building the 3D image of the viral protein. By fitting the crystallographic techniques into the lower resolution cryo EM maps of larger assemblies, the accurate of the calibration of electron microscope can be increased. 
	However, some people argue that X-ray crystallography is not a good technology to study virus because of its limitations. Some people state that the X-ray crystallography cannot analyze molecular and atoms that cannot be crystallized. They also point out that the X-ray crystallography could only measure and observe the tertiary structures and quaternary structures of proteins while proteins can be consist of primary structure, secondary structure, tertiary structure and quaternary structure. According the articles I found, although X-ray crystallography is limited when the protein cannot be crystallized, it doesn't mean it can be replaced by other technology. For example, XFEL (X-ray free-electron lasers) is also used to measure protein structure no matter the protein can be crystallized or not. However, The X-ray beams in XFELs are so powerful that they may cause damages on the proteins, which means XFELs actually cannot replace the X-ray crystallography. What's more, because the viral proteins is the key for virus to infect and reproduce, there is no doubt that the protein structure is very complex to process specific function, it is very rare for that kind of proteins to be made up of primary structure and secondary structure. In other words, most of viral protein are actually composed by complex proteins which are mainly consist of tertiary structure and quaternary structure, it is not necessary to observe and measure the primary structure and secondary structure. 
	In conclusion, according to the article about X-ray crystallography and the interview of the researcher who is studying virus by X-ray crystallography, although some people show opposite opinions, I prove that X-ray crystallography is the best technology to study viral proteins. 
Citation: 
Smyth, M.S. and J.H.J. Martin. "X-ray crystallography" J Clin Pathol: Mol Pathol 2000;53:8-14 
Rossmann, Michael G., Ricardo Bernal, and Sergei V. Pletnev. "Combining Electron Microscopic with X-Ray Crystallographic Structures." Journal of Structural Biology 136, 190-200 (2001). 
Nugent, Keith A., "X-Ray imaging of a Single Virus in 3D." Physics 8, 19 (2015) 
2 
