Does Chinglish have negative impacts to college students' writing?
"I don't understand what you mean here, this is so Chinglish." When I was at high school, our foreign writing teacher always said that to us for our writing assignment. I believe sometimes I will use Chinglish, which is defined as a variety of English used by speakers of Chinese and incorporating some Chinese vocabulary or construction, unconsciously even though I am a college student right now and I believe many students that study abroad has the same issue, too. The issue is that do Chinglish really have negative influence to college students' writing? When more and more Chinese students begin to explore the world beyond the sea, using English as a tool to connect people all over the world, they started to notice and pay more attention about this issue. "China English" has been being debated more than 20 years and it was first raised in 1980 by Ge (1983), a famous Chinese linguist and lexicographer (Cui, 2006; Kirkpatrick & Xu, 2002).
Chinglish is a language that based on Chinese grammar and structure but performed in English. Some people think Chinglish is totally acceptable to be used. Some people think that language transfer seems more likely to help than to interfere. Through out the interview with <name> who is teaching international English composition class at college. She states that not only British English and American English are the only standard English, Chinglish and many other English that form around the world should be accept to be English. She also thinks this kind of classification is totally wrong. Henry (2010) states that Chinglish is just a label that judges about the appropriateness of a speaker's linguistic production from the perspective of an authoritative (and authorized) expert.
However, most of the students thinks that Chinglish is wrong and it should be correct because it has many negative impact to them because it has enormous and numerous of differences from English. There are three main differences that impact students's writing negatively the most, which including grammar errors, sentence structure and semantic difference.
First of all, Grammar errors might consider being a biggest problem that impact students' writing. Kirkpatrick (2002) says that one prominent characteristic of Chinese is that it is an Isolated Language, while English is an inflectional Language. I think that is why the grammar system of Chinese and English are so different, especially in tense. Jianhua (2007) states that there is no inflectional change in Chinese verbs, because what Chinese concerns with is whether an action is performed or continuous, while tense is an indispensable part of English verbs. Consequently, Chinese students unavoidably make errors concerning tense and sometimes it might mislead people to a wrong direction about what students mean. Tense sometimes can cause huge problems.
Subsequently, sentences structure causes much negative impact to students writing, too. Pinkham (2000) says" English is a language based on verbs. It is simple, concise, vigorous and, above all, clear. Chinglish is a language based on nouns - vague, general, abstract nouns. It is complicated, long-winded, ponderous, and obscure." The basic word order of English is SVO and the structure is rigid, while Jiahua (2007) states that Chinese has SOV and SVO as its basic word order because its basic word order to some degree is determined by pragmatic and semantic factors rather than grammatical ones. Therefore, Students sometimes make sentences which may be well-formed according to Chinese word order but never appears in English, and this cause misunderstanding or misleading of others.
Ultimately, semantic difference between Chinese and English can cause negative transfer of Chinglish. There are many words are unique in many language, and there are some words that have the same meaning but different use method. Chinese students sometimes will unconsciously use some words that might only exist in Chinese or have totally different use in English, which might cause misleading. Xiaoru (2009) discovers that the choice of pronoun-subject or non-pronoun-subject between Chinese and English will lead to negative transfer, which will make the translation of subject an improper one. For example, Chinese people always think that human being and nature are mingled together whereas western people believe they are separated and they intend to express things from an object view and are used to taking non-pronoun such as things or abstract concept as the subject.
Chinglish as a "language" has been debated for a long time. Some people think it is totally acceptable, other people think it has numerous negative influences for the students. Some people think that negative influence will be gone through Chinglish accept and be accepted by this world, others think Chinglish someday will be correct and become the same as standard English. In my opinion, I think students that study abroad should correct their Chinglish, especially in writing, because it is very important to let people understand what they write and what they want to express. Chinglish may mislead and be misunderstand of the original meaning of the paper. Therefore, I think right now for the college students, Chinglish should be corrects because of its numerous negative impacts.
In conclusion, I think Chinglish has more negative influence than its positive one. In my first part, Chinglish is acceptable in someway by some people. However, for most of the college students, Chinglish have many negative impacts from some aspects. I explain three of them detailedly which including grammar errors, sentence structure, and semantic difference. As a result, I think Chinglish has negative impact to college students' writing.
Pinkham, J.(2000). The translator's guide to chinglish. Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and Re-
search Press.
Kirkpatrick, A., & Xu, Z. (2002). Chinese pragmatic norms and 'China English'. World English, 21(2), 269-279.
Wang X. (2009) Exploring the Negative Transfer on English Learning. [J]. Asian social science July. 2007, 5(2)
Li J. (2007). Negative Language Transfer in College English Writing by Chinese Students: Problems and Strategies [J]. CELEA Journal Apr.2007, vol. 30 No. 2
Henry, E. S. (2010). Interpretations of "Chinglish": Native Speakers, Language Learners and the Enregisterment of a Stigmatized Code. Language in Society, 39(05), 669-688.
