P5D1 
Apr.8th 
Why Nuclear Battery Will Change the World 
	Over the past decades, human technology has been growing exponentially in nearly every aspect. Among all kinds of technologies, one of them seems to have fallen behind. People need to recharge their cellphones 3 or 4 times more frequently today than in 2006. This is because the speed at which battery is developing cannot catch up the demand. 
How does this mean that a new battery technology could change the world? This can be explained with an economical term called 'bucket effect'. The overall performance of an integrated product is limited by its weakest part. To make it more clear, let us look at some examples. People can build very fast CPUs today, but those CPUs can hardly be applied to smartphones or laptops. An important reason is that a faster CPU also consumes more power, thus shortens the standby time. Therefore, smartphones and laptops are limited by battery. Moreover, although TESLA 3 performs just like a patrol vehicle, its short cruise mileage and long recharging time keeps thousands of customs away. Electric cars are limited by battery. If you have experienced HTC VIVE just like me, you'll be astonished at how mature the VR technology has been. However, to play VR game we have to be dragging the DC cable all the time, without which the system could not sustain long. That is because people are unable to make a VR battery that is light enough to be put on the head. VR is also limited by battery. That is not all, drones, smart glasses and robots, virtually everything is deeply limited by battery. Noticed or not, our life is literally limited by battery. That's why a revolutionary battery technology can definitely change the world. 
In search of a revolutionary battery, we have basically no choice but nuclear battery. That is because so far nuclear fuels are known as the most energy-concentrated materials in the universe. To be intuitive, one gram of Thorium yields energy of 7500 gallons of gasoline ("Truth Theory", 2014), allowing a car to travel for about 10 years, or an i Phone 6 to run for 100,000 years, which is much longer than human history. Other types of battery just CANNOT contain more energy than a nuclear battery does, in physical meaning. It's true that among all types of batteries graphene battery is catching more attentions currently, but nuclear battery will be more competitive in the long run. That is because that the advantages of graphene battery are cheap and fast-recharge, while it still needs to be recharged regularly, although fast. Sometimes even a one-minute recharge brings trouble, for example when applied to air/space transportations. 
Some people may question whether the idea of nuclear battery is possible, as until now we have not yet found a successful mechanism to achieve it. They forget the fact that our technology is developing so fast, and we have not yet found one does not mean we cannot find one given 30 years. On the other hand, lots of successful experiments have been conducted in this field recently, and our nuclear battery has been much more sophisticated, powerful and efficiency than 50 years ago ("A review of nuclear batteries", 2014). Researchers have solved many problems that were once considered extremely hard to solve, such as utilizing beta emission of an isotope without damaging the electrode material ("Plasmon-assisted radio lytic energy conversion in aqueous solutions", 2014). Thanks to those researches, people are having deeper understanding of battery science. There is a benign cycle between experiment and theory. I believe people are able to overcome all those technical challenges since nuclear battery is theoretically possible. 
When talking about nuclear under any circumstance, safety is always a major concern. Many people regard nuclear energy as a double-edged sword, it brings power but at the same time also brings harmful radiation and horrible leak accidents. The fact, however, is right the opposite. The catastrophic consequences of leak accidents fool the public as if nuclear energy is always that terrible. Just like people are usually more anxious when taking an airplane than travelling on a highway despite that they are statistically more possible to die under the latter situation, it is human nature to value the consequence more important than the probability of consequence. Actually, even when taking all the most terrible leak accidents in to account, nuclear energy is so far the safest energy in the world (deaths/MW*h). It is safer than solar energy and even wind energy. It is basically a single-edged sword. The leak accidents have once forced several governments to put limit on nuclear energy, but most of them have been aware of the actual safeness of nuclear energy recently, and are re-enabling it ("Nuclear energy policy by country", 2014-2016). 
In conclusion, nuclear battery is possible and essential to us. It is not as dangerous as someone believes, on the contrary it is safer than any other resource. Problems do exist, but they are to be solved rather than to be afraid of. With the help of nuclear battery, a large number of technologies that was once limited by battery capacity can be made possible. That is why it will change the world. 
