Argumentative Paper of 3D Printing Application in Medical Utilization, Draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Argumentative Paper of 3D Printing Application in Medical Utilization 
	As 3D bio-printing technology is flourishing, it's more possible to apply this technology into clinical application, such as making 3D printed organs. I believe that 3D bio-printing organs will solve the huge gap between the supply and the demand in organ transplantation. For the following paragraphs, I will provide some evidences to support my view and also discuss some counterviews. 
	First of all, some people are concern about the rejection and the safety of 3D printed organ. Those people claim that since the 3D bio-printing is a flourishing technology, the reliability and the safety of the printed organs are still unknown. However, the truth is, the transplant rejection only happens when the immune system detects the transplanted organ, which are external cells in traditional transplantation, as a threat to the body, but a 3D printed organ is made by patient's own cells, which are technically not external for the immune system. In fact, scientists incubate patient's stem cells in the lab and let those cells grow into an organ. Therefore, for immune system, the 3D printed organ is made by the same cells as other organs and thus compare to traditional organ transplantation that take organs from other people, 3D printed organs are relatively more suitable and safer for the patients since they accept new organs that are made by their own cells. That is to say, having a 3D printed organ transplantation is actually less possible to raise immune rejection than having traditional organ transplantation. For the safety and the reliability, I will introduce a case of a girl who suffered from a serious headache because her skullcap over-grew unnaturally was cured by replacing with a printed skullcap (Nicholas Tufnell, 2014, March 26). As I mentioned above, 3D bio-printed organs are made by patients' own cells, so even there come up some problems with the printed organs, it should have ability to restore the function just like other cells. 
	Further, some people claim that 3D bio-printing is an expensive technology that the rich would have advantage and thus leads to unfairness. I partially agree with this view. Any emerging technology costs money to research and develop. However, when we consider the return on investment, it turns out that 3D bio-printing is worth to invest fund because it can produce an organ by patient's own cells rather than wait for couple years for a suitable organ and risk in having transplantation rejection that might kill the patient. If we always avoid spending money on developing new technology, then the whole society would not make progress. Just think of if our ancestors saved money on developing cars, we won't be able to have convenient transportation now. Also, when the first car came out, it was extremely expensive that the rich took advantage of having fast transfer between places and places. Nevertheless, when time goes by, cars become more and more affordable and widespread as the technology getting more maturely developed. In conclusion, when any new technology comes out, the rich always take advantage at first, this is an inevitable situation. However, when the technology become maturely developed, it can be utilized by the public and will benefit the majority in the society in a cheaper way. 
	Lastly, there are some people refuse the importance of developing 3D printing in biology utilization. They denote that it is unnecessary to develop 3D printing technology in regularly daily life use as organ transplantation. They claim that this technology would be limitedly used in high technology-needed situation, such as military usage or so. Therefore, investing money and effort to such a non-practical technology development is needless. I totally disagree with this viewpoint. Take the current situation in US as an example, there are over one hundred and twenty thousand people waiting for organ transplantation now, and about six thousands of patients die every year while they are waiting for a suitable organ (The Need is Real, n.d.). As Figure 1 (n.d.) shows, the gap between the supply and the demand in the US is about 1:8, which is incredible. Not to mentioned those people who do not have proper medical care and sound system for managing supply and demand in developing countries. It is believed that if we can utilize the 3D printing technology maturely, we can solve this huge gap in supply and demand and, hopefully, save more people. 
Figure 1. The Gap Continues to Widen. The Need is Real: Data. Retrieved from http://www.organdonor.gov/about/data.html 
All in all, science and technology always come from humanity. There are some needs, so people develop a solution or a technology to meet the need. For me, the value of science is that it can help human society become better. I definitely think that 3D bio-printing can help solve the gap between the supply and the demand, so ut is worth to raise people's attention to this issue. 
Reference List 
Figure 1. The Gap Continues to Widen. (n.d.). The Need is Real: Data. Retrieved from http://www.organdonor.gov/about/data.html 
Tufnell, N. (2014, March 26). Neurosurgeons Successfully Implant 3D Printed Skull. Retrieved from http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2014-03/26/3d-printed-skull 
