P5D1 
Will artificial intelligence end human beings? 
	Artificial intelligence, AI, is a popular topic in the modern technology. Some great experts from different field including Stephen Hawking, Elon Musk and Bill Gates consider this new type of technique as a nightmare while others like Ray Kurzweil think their worries are unnecessary. However, I hold the opinion that artificial intelligence would be a serious threat some day although it seems not dangerous in present. To avoid dangers, people need to pay attention to AI all the time when developing it and build fundamental rules to follow for ensuring human beings' safety. 
	The first reason I believe AI will end mankind is a result of its powerful influence. According to Tim Urban, a writer on a public website named Wait But Way, mentions that technology's evaluation speed is not a constant. He draws a graph to reflect the speed in the past 20 years as well as what is was in the older time. From his graph, it is easily to see that technology's development shows an increasing speed. However, on the other graph describing the speed of human's evaluation, Tim Urban draws a straight line, which means human follows a constant speed. On another graph combining those two graphs, I can easily find that although technology is not as smart as people at the first time, with the time changes, it will finally reach human level and beyond people's control sometime in the future. Future is unpredictable, but technology's development is amazing. Tim Urban also suggests that once AI reaches certain level, like super artificial intelligence, one possible state for human race is distinction. Like what Eliezer Shlomo Yudkowsky, an American blogger, suggests, once AI processes rapid infrastructure, manipulating the external world on a large scale in fast time, it plus molecular technology could rewrite the solar system. At that time, people's life will under AI's control and whether people can live would depend on AI's decision. 
	The second reason I think AI will destroy human beings is people's increasingly rely on this advanced human achievement. AI, the intelligence exhibited by machines or software, is becoming part of human's life. From calculators to computers, from unmanned cars to robots and from phones to aerial vehicles, those are all product from artificial intelligence. Stephen Hawing's translate machine is a typical example. In one of Hawking's interviews on BBC, he talks about the machine that helps him to communicate and talk to others. He says that the machine has been developed for several times; however, he insists on using the same robotic voice because he wants himself always have a concept that however smart the machine is, it cannot be actual human forever. Even Stephen Hawking needs to live normally by using products of AI, how about others? To be honest, AI takes more than what people may think from our life. An obvious example is smart phones, a communication tool originally. In the modern society, almost everyone has a smart phone. And with the rapid development of technology, functions of smart phones are continuously increasing and improving. People can now playing games, chat by messages besides phone calls and surfing on Internet as well. Whatever taking a bus or having a dinner, people cannot live without smart phones. There is a serious problem that time of people live with smart phones is far more than it of people live in the actual world. How many people can say confidently that they can live without smart phones a whole day and not feel any uncomfortable? 
	All in all, artificial intelligence may not seem threatening now, but some experts' warning is not unreasoning. With the unpredictable powerful effect brought by AI in the future and people's increasingly reliability on this technology, it is likely that artificial intelligence will beyond people's control and help human make decision one day. To better protect people's life and maintain people's power, scientists need to be more careful during the whole process of developing and every step or action should be based on the concept not to harm human beings. 
