Beauty or Pain on the tip of the feet 
Purdue University 
04/14/15 
	Most people have seen parents send their little girls and boys to the ballet school in their neighborhood. All of them were wearing pinky dresses and pointe shoes and follows their teachers and mimics their movement in the mirror. And most of you haven been to one ballet show. The ballerinas dressed up like princesses and princes and use the tip of the feet to finish every movement. There is no doubt that ballet is one of the most popular and beautiful dancing form around the world. However, many critics say that ballet is a very dangerous dance that only looks. It has so many health risks for all the dancers that cannot be ignored. They argue that ballet is an outdated art form that should against. On the other side, ballet is such a beautiful art would be a shame if it disappear from the history. So is the benefit of ballet can out weight the harms ballet brings us? 
	My interest of this topic starts with my own hobby of dancing ballet. I went to a ballet school in my neighborhood when I was about 6 years old. It was an enjoyable experience and I really loved it at first. As time passed, I found out dancing ballet is so hard and it hurts a lot. I was too young to make decisions. So my mother said dancing ballet can hurt my body so she decided to drop my ballet class and change it into hip hop class. After I grew up, I started to question if it's really true. So I began my research about ballet. 
	I did a lot of research online and everyone have their own reasons why dancing ballet can hurt our body. And concluded all the reason in two general areas, physical harms and psychological impacts. 
	The most common physical harms for professional ballerinas are joints hypermobility problem and serious injuries. As we all know, ballerinas have to finish leaps and turns on the stage. So they have a practice thousand times everyday to get that perfect figure. The overuse of joints will easily cause joints hypermobility problems. (Grahame, 1972) Professor Grahame is an expert in human science area. According to his research done in 1972, professional ballet dancers are much more easier to get hypermobility problem than other people. In his research, Grahame and his team did a set of experiment on both professional ballerinas and nursing school students. The result is that ballerinas have a higher possibility to get joints hypermobility than nursing student. The reason is all ballet dancers have to stand on their feet for hours everyday and that gives the joints extra pressure. 
	The next possible health problem is get injuries. Ballet is not only a dancing form but also a kind of sport. It requires a lot of physical effort just like athletes. It is very easy to injuries. Professor Ekegren, Quested and Brodrick did a research with different groups of professional ballet dancer from different professional ballet school. They collected data for a whole year and recorded the injuries number of all the dancers. The rate of injuries is surprisingly high. About 76 percent of the dancers got injuries in that year and the total number of injury is 378. (Ekegren, C) 
	Sometimes ballet can give negative psychological impact on dancers too. Not a lot of people know that ballet-dancing industry is highly competitive. According to Ericaleigh of Teen Ink magazine, "To pursue a career in dance a dancer must devote themselves to class, auditions, performances, and anything else that will land them jobs and improve their skills." (Leigh, 2007) 
The fact that it is really to get in a ballet company puts a lot of pressure on all the ballerinas. It requires not only dancing technique, but also talent and opportunities. Some of the dancers can't hold such psychological pressure that cause them have psychological disorder. One of the most famous movie played by Natalie Portman expressed this reality to more people. 
	After explaining the negative impacts of dancing ballet, you may question why people still want to learn ballet even though they know they may get hurt. There are two most important reasons, better posture and express of emotion. 
	Every time a ballerina pass through, you can almost certain that she dances ballet. Since, dancing Ballet requires good posture and alignment, ballet dancers will practice their posture again and again to get the perfect pose. So it will increase their gesture in their daily life. Ballet is also a way to express feelings and pressure. It is only true for people that really love ballet. (Chen, 2012) 
	The most important part of continue learning ballet is that ballet is a expression of your inner self. It's a way to express your feeling. 
