P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
2015 25th April 15 
Cultural Shock 
	Nowadays, more and more students are choosing to study abroad. In addition, the age of them tends to be lower. As a result, students who are not mature enough have to face with the situation of cultural shock earlier and earlier. Many times, their own values may be influenced by the new culture and they are glad to change their values in order to adapt to the new environment better. However, in my view, international students do not have to change their values to integrate with the local culture. 
	 One's value is based on the specific culture. Take Chinese culture as an example, Confucian thought is a common thread within much of Chinese that has created a common culture in a region for centuries and has played an important role on various aspects of social life. In that way, Chinese values are deeply influenced by Confucian thought. Confucianism emphasizes on propriety and order such as social order and proper relationship. So that Chinese students tend to be more respectful and strive to do good by studying hard and maintaining relationship. While in Western culture, the order is not treated so seriously and their values are more based on advocating freedom. The author Gudykunst (2001) once said "Americans tend to equate the concept of face with saving one's own face, while Chinese cultures are based on independent self-construal conduct." Since there is a difference between cultures, people do not have to change their own values. People with different culture will not repel each other. (Yook, 2013) 
	However, some may argue that changing a lot can help international students blend in with the local people better. They may point out that changing the values and attitudes can avoid some embarrassing moments. In that way, they think students can give up the old habits and accept more new things. In an interview, <name>, a worker for the Bridges Interntional which is an association that focuses on helping connecting international students with local students by holding many events, strongly suggested that international students should not change their own values. He said that students may not be mature enough to distinguish the good from the bad. He gave me examples that there were some international students who wanted to be involved in the local group who even took drugs. Some of them drank illegally and skipped the school many times. As a result, they were alarmed by the university. <name> pointed out that international students were glad to find the sense of belonging but they were too young to keep their self-discipline. "Just be yourself and you do not have to change anything. Embrace the good things and avoid the bad ones," <name> said. (personal communication, March 27th, 2015) He claimed that he encouraged the international students in the association to keep their own ways and over 95% of them also adapted to the environment well. The different values and culture can make students learn more about each other better. Changing one's value may have negative effect if they cannot tell the good from bad. 
	In addition, changing one's own value is unnecessary because cultural shock is a temporary process. In fact, there are four stages of cultural adaptation and the last stage is Adaptation Phase that people can accept new things in a balanced way. The expert Wilkelman (1994) put forward the graph of the stages of cultural shock and showed that the line tends to be stable at last. In that way, cultural shock is just a temporary process and international students do not have to worry too much and everything will be all right at the end. The author Richard S. Kingsley (2013) once suggested, "Don't feel like you need to change everything about yourself so you can stand out less." In the light of statement, he believed that changing was a sign of escaping. Furthermore, changing values in a temporary process may make people confused in a short time. Adapting to a new environment needs time and changing values is too anxious for success. (Wilkelman, 1994; Richard S. Kingsley 2013) 
	In conclusion, values are mostly based on the culture which has existed for a long time. Value decides one's characteristics so that it is very precious. Then, adapting to the new culture means accepting new but good things rather than trying everything new blindly or giving up the old one. To be honest, international students are more eager to find the sense of belonging because they are far from their families and old friends. So, more communication and understanding are effective and international students do not have to be anxious and what they should do is just be themselves. 
Reference 
Richard.S. Kingsley. (2013 March). cultural shock. Retrived from: http://teenshealth.org: http://teenshealth.org/teen/your_mind/emotions/culture_shock.html# 
Winkelman.M. (1994). cultural shock and adaptation. Journal of Counseling & Development, pp. 121-126. 
Yook, E. L. (2013). Culture shock for Breaking the model minority myth. In E. L. Yook, Culture shock for Asians in U.S.academia. Lanham: Lexington Books. 
3 
Cultural Shock 
