04/29/2016 
Positive effect caused by the change of vocabulary in SAT test 
Introduction 
SAT has been used by more than 80% of U.S. Universities to examine how well the 
students understand the passage, writing skill and vocabulary. Based on a research published by research group of College Board: in most cases, SAT score can show students' first year GPA in college. SAT is one of measurement tests for high school students to take and their scores will relate to their college admission since none of other test can replace it. However, lots of students and parents have doubt the accuracy of SAT's measurement, so SAT test experienced a significant change recently. The main change of new and old test is that vocabulary section has been cancelled, students only have to remember limited vocabulary to understand articles to finish reading section. In more specific way, one type of questions that students need to fill out the sentences with uncommon words has been deleted. However, new SAT test will require students to remember all the meanings of those multi-meaning words such as concentrated, determined and so on which they may use to understand article in reading section. 
Main argumentative point of this essay is that the change of vocabulary in SAT test 
has positive effect to test takers. Many people like many test takers and their parents have positive opinion about the change which help them decrease the pressure, but still some people disagree with the change with their view that the change will increase unfairness and cause unnecessary issues. This topic has been discussed for long time, in my opinion, the change has both positive and negative effects, but positive effect is greater than negative effect. 
Resource 
In one of related article "The SAT has officially become a swear word in my 
mind" written by Amanda Chan who is currently the Deputy Editor at Teen Vogue, she points out that old SAT has significant issue about irrelevance and the weakness of old SAT test, students have to memorize those uncommon words that they never use and they may not use them in the future in order to fully prepare old SAT test and passing exams. Today, parents can enroll their kids in a Kaplan course, hire private tutors or even a "diagnostician who will classify your child as learning disabled and therefore eligible to take the SATs without time limits" which indicates the unfairness of old SAT test. but in last part, writer also holds the view that unfairness will always exist collegeboard cannot avoid it. In other words, author wants to use more impressive way to show readers about the disadvantage of old SAT vocabulary and how important the change is which supports my viewpoint that change has positive effect towards most students. Furthermore, when new SAT test come out, those tutors and courses cannot provide students with useful sample questions to help students prepare, in some cases, new SAT decrease unfairness cause by students' background. 
Also, in other related article written by Terrill, Scruggs and Mastropieri, they 
mainly assert several good ways to remember SAT's vocabulary to those students who have learning disabilities. The First point of journal is Keyword method, which means remembering several keywords to simplify the process of memory. Second, linking the picture with words, because research has proved that people can remember image with words more effectively. Third, widen mind about the picture, what else can be related to those images, this will help remember a large number of vocabulary. Finally, retrieve the answer, label difficult words with easy words and remember them together that may make difficult thing become easy thing. Although this journal sets the target as students with learning disability and only mentions the solutions to the problem of remembering vocabulary which is not direct related to my argument, but there is no doubt that the reason someone wrote this article is memorize the old SAT vocabulary is too difficult for many LD students which indirectly support the fact that change in vocabulary section is really necessary and has positive effect to test takers. 
In another article "How Important is Vocabulary for the new SAT?" author 
writes lots of details about changes. From the sample and description that she offered, we can easily tell the main difference is that remembering uncommon words might have different meanings in different situations, so you want to make sure that you understand each word in all of its dimensions and applications. Students can do this by finding a word used in several example sentences, rather than just one, as well as noting how vocabulary words are used when you read books, articles, and the news. Article concludes that students need to change their studying method from "lists of "2,000 SAT vocabulary words" (phew!)" to "multiple-meaning words of medium-level difficulty." This article mainly discuss the change of test affect studying way without any strong attitude, but I insist the view that change will help students decrease worthless work which is remember uncommon words, and do more meaningful thing, so change has positive effect. 
From Kelly Wallace who is working for CNN, "New SAT brings anxiety and 
confusion." argues that new SAT will makes students may feel nervous. However, article also maintains that "Gone is the vocabulary section, where you had the feeling you encountered words on the SAT that you would never see again in your lifetime". Vocabulary section has been cancelled, but students still needs to memorize every meaning of multi-meaning words that are common and close to their future courses in order to finish other parts of test. Although change makes new SAT test more fitful for students than old one, some people have opposite views that new SAT may hurt students who have not been exposed to a great deal of reading in their lives or students who live in low-income areas or don't speak English as a first language. According to this article, writer states two perspectives towards change. First, new SAT help students decrease their pressure which has positive effect. Second, new SAT will cause anxious and enlarge unfairness. However, I disagree with second opinion, because new test may cause nerves but it won't last too long, also, unfairness have already existed and you can not expect keep still to eliminate unfairness. If we want to solve issues, there must be something we need to pay, increase a bit unfairness is worth cost in order to solving vocabulary issue. In general way, positive effect is greater than negative effect. 
Conclusion 
	From all the view points and reasons, I state the opinion that change causes positive effect because students can acknowledge more useful words during preparation of SAT. As for the negative effect, students may nerve about new test, but it won't last so long. Also, someone mentioned increasing the unfairness, based on my explanation, that unfairness will decrease because everyone doesn't know what kind of questions they should prepare, so hiring tutors can offer limited help to them. I can easily draw the conclusion that the change of vocabulary between new and old SAT test has positive effect. 
Reference 
PA Media Group, 3 Jan. 2012. Web. 28 Apr. 2016. 
Safier, Rebecca. "How Important is Vocabulary for the new SAT?" Prep Scholar. College 
Entrance Examination Board, 21 Jun. 2015. Web. 28 Apr. 2016. 
Terrill, M. Catherine, Scruggs, E. Thomas, and Margo A. Mastropieri. "SAT vocabulary instruction for high school students with learning disabilities." Intervention in School and Clinic 39. 5 (2004): 288-294. 28 Apr. 2016. 
Wallace, Kelly. "New SAT brings anxiety and confusion." CNN. CNN, 25 Feb. 2016. Web. 
28 Apr. 2016. 
Jeffrey N. Wyatt, Mylene Remigio, and Wayne J. Camara. "SAT Subject Area Readiness Indicators: Reading, Writing, and STEM" research collegeboard. College Board, 31 Aug. 
2012. Web. 28 Apr. 2016. 
