Argumentative paper
First draft
4/10/2016
The impact of video games to college students
	Nowadays, gaming become much more popular than before. Almost every students will play video games or computer games in their free time. The same to me, I usually spend week day or after-study time playing games. However, everything will have two sides of effect, good or bad, still lots of people say that video games will decrease student's GPA, affect their physical health, which makes them stay in front of TV all day lone. To explore and find out the benefits of the video games, I had interviewed the Professor <name> who is an associate professor in clinical psychology, and done literature research on articles. After researching, I found that we can benefit from video games a lot. For example, we can improve our visual attention and exercise our brain; we can improve ourselves' personality to increase humanity, and we can improve our communication skills and have more methods to study. I will use my examples and research to argue that videos games also have benefits on ourselves.
	Firstly, video games can improve our visual attention and brain activity. According to the BBC News article " Horizon: how video games can change your brain." Prof. Daphne Bavelier made a test to verify the relationship between visual abilities and video games. He found that people who play action games will have better record than those don't. He concluded that action games needed players' eyes chase the moving character to complete the mission, which means their eyes exercise much often. Furthermore, in the article, the professor Simone Kuhn also agreed that video games did have benefit on brain. During the research, she played games SUPER MARIO 64DS for two months, and she found there were three parts of brain had grown. Also, during my interview with Dr. <name> he gave me an example, when people play first personal shooting game, like Battelfields, the game would require players focus every part of the screen and switch position as quickly as possible. Conclusively, video games will improve our reaction time and visual attention.
	Secondly, the article " Effects of playing Video Games on Perceptions of One's Humanity" by Tobias Greitemyer states that video games have effect of the perceptions of one's humanity. Tobias made a theory that prosocial video games may increase perception of humanity and some violence games may decrease the perception of humanity. During the research, participants will decide which games to play, a prosocial(Pingus), a neutral( Tetris), or a violent( call of duty 2). After playing the game, participants would rate themselves humanity, whether they may be more violent or not. They would fill out the form on a 7-point Likert-type scale, point from 1 to 7. In a conclusion, based on the detailed statistics, it's useful for us to know that prosocial video games will improve our perceptions of humanity. Moreover, in the interview with Dr. <name> he said that some intelligent game and mystery game will also have benefits on us. For instance, challenging puzzle and mystery game usually required players use their brain to find the key to get sequence ques and answer to complete the mission. Also, the game like "The Witcher", which is making choice game, would require players make decisions all the time and think ahead about the development of the game. Dr. <name> argued that video games would benefit on our physical health. Like doing some Kinect games " just dance", "push up" also exercised our body at the same time.
	Last but not least, "video games in education" by Lim, Yan; Lim, Pei; Lazim, Azmawati demonstrates that video games can provide us more methods to learn new things and improve social skills in the society. In the article, Anderson points out that using unfamiliar teaching tools will motivate students to curious about new study tools and learn more about them. For example, the pilot flight simulator play important role in flying study course, students will fly in the imagined world and using flying skills without life risk. During the interview, the Dr. <name> talked to me that video games were useful for social skills. Video games have chatting platform, and people can talk there even speak there, like game league of legends not only require single players' skill but also communication skills. In the game, players should talk to each other about the situation of the game to win the game. From above, video games indeed play important role in social life.
	All in all, according to the research about articles and interview with the Dr. Rollock. Video games really have benefits on us. We can improve visual attention and reaction time from the video games; we can improve social skills and study method from the video games, and we can improve our personal perception of humanity from video games. No doubt, we can't totally deny the video games but also play them for time to time.
Citation
Horizon: how video games can change your brain. BBC News. Web. 16 Sep.2015. P1. URL<http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-34255492>
Greitemeyer, Tobias. "Effects of Playing Video Games on Perceptions of One's Humanity." Social psychology, Vol.153(4), p.499-514. Web.2013.URL<http://web.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=148b3047-1cb6-4b6a-bf02-973af07b8b78%40sessionmgr4001&vid=1&hid=4104>
Lim, Yan , Lim, Pei and Lazim, Azmawati. "Video games in education." International Conference on Computer Games, Multimedia & Allied Technology (CGAT), pp 73-76. Web 2012.URL<http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/1037998932?rfr_id=info%3Axri%2Fsid%3Aprimo>
2
