P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Determining whether something should or should not be done could be weighed in many aspects. Different people have different answers due to their respective point of view. On balance my point is that the final judgment must depend on the case by case analysis of the two situations. As for me, I was almost persuaded by those speaker who believe drinking coffee will cause healthy issue. At the first glance, this opinion seems somewhat appealing, but the further more reflection tells me that I cannot totally agree with it. And the reasons are listed as follows in response to the controversy. 
First and foremost, as long as he or she is not drinking too much, coffee will not do harm to human's body. Coffee has a long and rich history which can be dating back to at least the 9th century. From the 9th century to 21st century, in such a long period people never heard about that someone was actually killed by coffee. However, when it comes to the most harmful contents in coffee, caffeine definitely would be the one be brought to the front. When people drink too much coffee, some undesired side effects would appear, such as mild anxiety and insomnia. Fortunately, people all have their own thresholds for caffeine, depends on their metabolic rate and physique. The threshold is the line that coffee-drinker should never across. Once people go beyond the line all the undesired side-effect would show up. So, it is clear that as long as people can control themselves, drinking coffee rational which is easy enough to, there will not be unpleasant side-effect and healthy risks. 
Caffeine can have both positive and negative health effects. 
Second of all, to some extent, I do think coffee is good for people health. One of the biggest reasons why coffee is beneficial is because it contains massive amounts of antioxidants. antioxidants can really help and slow the aging process, it can help protect people against free radical damage. Besides, Coffee is actually one of five highest foods rich in antioxidants in the world today. Beyond that, coffee can increase circulation, stimulate the liver, and increase the blood flow to brain. If people want to wake their body up in the morning, drink a cup of coffee will be a good choice. 
Admittedly, some people claim that coffee is bad for health. Take in too much caffeine can result in some side-effect. For example, it can overstimulate the body and it can burn out adrenal glands, which is like to over tax a human body 
However, that circumstance is totally avoidable. Consuming coffee in moderate amounts can be fine and good for human's health. 
Argumentative Essay 2 
