Should Fast Food Chains Focus on Consumers' Needs? 
It is undeniable that Americans generally rely on fast food. Fast food industry is enormous and chains within are highly organized, because quite a few fast-food chains run 24 hours restaurants, provide similar types of food and even use nearly identical ingredient. These restaurants all make efforts to attract more customers, but I suppose they should also try to satisfy consumers' needs from varied aspects. For example, Pizza Hut often designs new pizzas and other entrees that constantly provide their customers with new food choices and that is a worthy effort. Some consumers, who like fast food but don't typically need it, are concerned about their health more than taste of food; they are potential customers rather than regular ones. Large fast food chains such as Mc Donalds should seriously think about what consumers need. 
Mc Donalds can offer tasty foods including French fries, but what if a large increasing number of customers realize those foods lack nutritious value and cause chronic health problems such as diabetes and obesity? The chain may want to introduce some nutrition-balanced ingredient into its menus and has already made "commitments to offer improved nutritious choices". Besides Mc Donalds, Other national top fast food chains including Subway also make a difference to satisfy consumers' demand of food nutritious quality. Subway, for instance, finds ways to add calcium, vitamin and fibers to food, making diet for kids more nutrient Juliann Schaeffer, 18 . 
Fast food chains has existed in United States for nearly ten decades and are increasingly sophisticated because they keep adjusting their design to meet consumers need and earn customers' trust. In modern society, fast food chains also need to follow this pattern to move forward. Many fast-food chains like subway and Wendy's make their own specials, but they also have some fresh ingredient in common, because that is what consumers desire. 
Consumers expected and demanded more because of more exposure to food channel and food blogs. It can be seen from a fact that Jargon Julie stated. "Long criticized for selling pre-packaged, frozen and made-in-advance sandwiches, fast-food chains are trying to steer away from the perception of processed food by emphasizing the freshness of their products. While fresh ingredients cost more, chains say it is worth it for brand building, and higher quality gives them more pricing power." (B.11) Subway was more popular among consumers than Arby's because more consumers believed that Subway sliced its meat in its own restaurant. This is a case of the trend where consumers want fresh-made food more than processed food, so chains that adapt to this trend successfully make more profits. It is also a situation that a large amount of American labor force works at night. More chains extend their operating hours and some of them even open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. These chains experience great growths to different extent during the extra hours. For example, Mc Donalds expressed that one reason for its growth was more convenience including extended hours for employees such as construction workers and police officers. (Jargon Julie, B.1) 
I learned from professor Steven Hillis that consumers trust fast food because it is easy for them to predict what foods are available. However, what consumers do now is more than predicting. They probably expect food free from trans fat because campaign to ban trans fat has been going on for years and achieves great success. Stephen Joseph says, "Trans fat content in the national food supply has diminished dramatically. There is so much news about trans fat that it is impossible to track it." It is due to regulation of fast food content that consumers gain expectation of better ingredient than partially hydrogenated oils containing trans fat. Although some chains such as Mc Donalds had a hard time finding substitute oil without trans fat, they have to actually change much content of their food to live up to customers' expectation. It is possible for upscale consumers to give up eating at Mc Donalds because of concern of long-term health. 
Consumers demand more because changes of society and law and health conscious, and the most important thing for fast-food chains to do is to adjust themselves to these changes. 
http://news.mcdonalds.com/getattachment/06344ba3-94c0-4171-90ad-35f304142151, 
http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/070113p18.shtml 
http://www.bantransfats.com 
http://www.bantransfats.com 
Steven, Hillis. Personal interview. 13 October 2014. 
