Oral English Learning for Chinese Students: Problems and Solutions 
Although Chinese are paying more and more attention to the "global language" of English as China is becoming more and more globalized with its rapid growth in economy, the current situation of oral English learning among Chinese students, especially high school and college students, is not optimistic; most Chinese students cannot even have a decent conversation with foreigners. Therefore, finding a proper way of improving Chinese students' oral English become requisite. Some hold the traditional opinion that learning grammar and vocabulary is the best way for Chinese students; some suggest that wide reading is the best solution; Some even argue that its not possible for most high school and college students to learn oral English as they have already past the "Critical Period" according to the Critical Period Hypothesis. But from my perspectives along with my 2-month reading on relative papers, I would regard building a language environment as the most important approach for Chinese students to grow proficiency in oral English. 
As long ago as 1921, a notable linguist, Dr. Harold Palmer had raised the theory that The Art of Speech becomes proficient as it is used in everyday life-a constant language environment, rather than using one's intelligence consciously. Dr. Palmer's strongly supported the theory that the language environment is the key factor influencing the acquisition of any language. In addition, according to Wei and Zhang(2013)'s research on barriers hindering college students' English performance, 94% learners think that the difference of thinking between china and west is the biggest hinderance of their oral English 
performance. This is a perfect indication that even though with sufficient grammar and vocabulary, as college students should possess, students' lack of a English-speaking environment would still result in poor performance on oral English. 
The idea of English language environment is not only supported by evidence in academic papers, but by notable English educators as well. With his 8-year's teaching experience on oral English, Cody pointed out that creating a language environment should always be the goal of language learners. For students living/ studying abroad, as a language environment is provided, the only thing they need to do is practicing using that advantage. For those who do not have a language environment around, they are ought to create one themselves; long-term reciting of recordings and chatting with friends in English all along are both possible solutions (X. Ji, personal communication, Oct 12, 2014). Moreover, several professors in English department of Yunnan Normal University mentioned that the best way of learning a foreign language is to use it, to talk in that language, especially with native speakers, indicating language environment is always the best method of acquiring another language 
Comparatively, grammar and vocabulary play a less important role in oral English learning. Admittedly, they are the fundamental element of a language, but for oral English, only possess knowledge in words and sentences pattern would be far from enough. Dr. Palmer (1921), in his book The principles of language study, pointed out that in English colloquial language, our sentences are formed in unconscious obedience to some rules unknown to us. These rules are not contained in any manual of English grammar nor ever taught as a school subject, instead, they were formed during long-term everyday usage of the language. Also, Wei and Zhang(2013)'s research showed that students have no difficulty with possessing a large vocabulary, but with word choices among context, which is exactly what we are trying to solve with a constant language environment provided. As Cody suggested: "The student's command of a language will not be judged by how much he knows, but how well he can perform in public." (X. Ji, personal communication, Oct 12, 2014) 
When comes to the Critical Period Hypothesis (CPH) then, it would be a very controversial topic especially towards second language acquisition. However, it is only widely acknowledged that CPH is true for first language acquisition; for second language acquisition, CPH is still only a hypothesis instead of a theorem. Through research on high school students, Liu (2007) has proved that the Critical Period Hypothesis plays only a relatively insignificant role in Chinese students' oral English due to the current situations of English teaching in China. Furthermore, Ioup, Boustagui, Tigi, and Moselle(1994) used neurophysiological approach to prove that when process a second language, the brain work of late language learner shows the same signals as native speakers, indicating that age has no relevance to second language acquisition. These researches, hence, successfully proved the possibility allowing students without receiving English education during "Critical Period" to acquire fluent oral English. 
Overall, thus, providing a language environment can be considered as the best way to learn oral English for Chinese students. Hence, under this hypothesis, several specific methods can be suggested. For those went abroad, without doubt, make as more foreign friends as possible and seize every possible chance to use English would just be the simplest way. And for students without a native language environment, there are multiple approaches to create a language environment for themselves. The best and easiest way of improving pronunciation and intonations would be to keep listening and reciting recordings of English articles, but this way still limits students' ability in having a real-life conversation. Hence another way would be to create an English language environment among each other: every student should chat with each other in English imitating native speakers' language habit; also, watching and simulating situations from English TV shows or movie dramas can be one possible way. As an English-learning network among student is formed, it would be much easier for all the students to acquiring proficiency in oral English. Ultimately, as Dr. Palmer (1921) suggested, We all possess natural or spontaneous capacities for acquiring the speech of a language, as long as proper method is adapted. 
------------------------------------- 
