Paper; Argumentative Essay (Draft#1) 
Course Name: ENGL 106i-IOU 
Date: 04/13/2015 
1137words 
Introduction 
In the United States, there are big percentage of Universities required their first year students to live on-campus, such as Harvard. Sometimes peoples would say it is not a good policy for students since they should make their own choice, it is right. However, although i agree with that students should have rights to choose live on-campus or not, i still think live on-campus is way much better than live off- campus for a freshman year students based on 3 aspects, which are Academics, Life Diversity and Independent. To make the notions more credible and to provide a broader perspective, I did a plenty of research on websites and read several online papers, also i interviewed two lady who worked for university students in Purdue University. 
Why do i think Freshman Students should live-on campus? 
For the most of University students in America, academics study is definitely the most important thing for them. One of my interviewee, <name>, who is from Purdue hilltop dormitory front desk, she said: It is the first time that students away from home, if they choose to life off-campus on first year some of them may went to wrong trend since they do not have residential assistant(RA)'s supervisions and they are not mature enough, so it will bring down their academic grades without doubt.(Jill.D. Harner,2015). I totally agree with her opinion, because whatever for students who came from each countries, high school has much more pressure than University, some students firmly believe that University life has more leisure time, so if they cannot control themselves well, they will get distractions from study, if they live off-campus, there is no one can restrict them from drinking, smoking even drugging. For students who live in dormitory, those things are absolutely not allowed in dorm, so they can keep themselves away from party and neighbor's noise. In addition, according to the article i found,< On campus Vs. Off-campus living> it says if students choose to live on-campus, they can easily walk to classes, libraries, computer labs, cafeterias, etc. they don't have to waste time and money on driving to school, finding a parking space, and so forth. (Angela Storck,2013) Thus, it saved a plenty of time for students to study. 
Second, Life diversity is also a significant part for student's daily life, when you live on-campus, you will know more friends compared to live off-campus since there are many peoples who lived outside of campus are not the students, they might be working professionals, young couples, families with children, or elderly retirees, you do not have too much things in common with those strangers. Nevertheless, students who live in same dormitory are also from same school, you may take the same types of class or major with those students live near you, so you can get along with them well since you are at the same age. For most Universities in America, each dormitory also provide kitchen, you still can cooking yourself after buy the food materials, when i was a freshman i do found a lot of interesting in cooking with my roommates. Moreover, university also provide different kind of sports fields, those are all on campus, you can play diverse sports with your friends at any time. So there are still many life diversity around you. However, Some peoples might say you still can not feel something different and interesting when you still living at school. The very smart way is : you still can experience those fancy things when you becoming a sophomore or upper, when you are mature enough to dealing with some problems. 
Independence, which is a very important word for every students, especial for international students. People always needs to know how to live before they became a real adult. On the basis of second article i found < On campus Vs. Off-campus living> , there is a paragraph about independence under living off-campus's cons, it says students will not have to follow as many rules if you live off-campus. Residence halls have several rules that students must abide by when living on-campus. (These rules are usually designed for the overall protection and safety of the residents). Living off-campus will give you freedom from those rules and allow you to set your own.(Angela Storck,2013) Every peoples should know that there is no civilized world without particular rules. All those rules that set up for students is benefit for students and the purpose is let students become a better persons. Indeed, Student can get freedom when they move out of campus, but if they do not know how to drive, do not know how to cook, do not know how to keep themselves away from danger, do not know what kind of things they did will break the law, how can they live by themselves out of campus? Just like what Mrs Harner said, students should learn how to set up a discipline and a plan of study, learn some basic housekeeping knowledge, and skills to place your personal belonging before the move out ( Jill.D. Harner, 2015). I trust her in some way because she works for Purdue Dormitory department for 15 years. 
Conclusion 
In sum, what i want to say is live on-campus really benefits university students on academic study, life diversity and Independence skills. So i totally support that First year students should choose to live on-campus. Peoples always have their own reason before make a decision. But i still suggests that university students should get some experiences with dormitory life. For me it really brings me a lot of fun when i lived on-campus. 
Reference 
1. It is the first time that students away from home, if they choose to life off-campus on first year some of them may went to wrong trend since they do not have residential assistant(RA)'s supervisions and they are not mature enough, so it will bring down their academic grades without doubt.(Jill.D. Harner,2015) 
2. if students choose to live on-campus, they can easily walk to classes, libraries, computer labs, cafeterias, etc. they don't have to waste time and money on driving to school, finding a parking space, and so forth. (Angela Storck,2013) 
3. students will not have to follow as many rules if you live off-campus. Residence halls have several rules that students must abide by when living on-campus. (These rules are usually designed for the overall protection and safety of the residents). Living off-campus will give you freedom from those rules and allow you to set your own.(Angela Storck,2013) 
4. students should learn how to set up a discipline and a plan of study, learn some basic housekeeping knowledge, and skills to place your personal belonging before the move out.( Jill.D. Harner, 2015). 
First year University students should live on-campus 
