Risks of Football: Danger under the Popularity 
Risks of Football: Danger under the Popularity 
	From 1892 to 1894, a group of researchers prospected the injuries of a group of high school football players and found out that "Two hundred fifty-one injuries were recorded among a player population of 598, resulting in an injury rate of 42.1% per 100 players" (Prager, Fitton, Cahill, Olson, 1989, para.1). Although all the players on the field looked strong and healthy but actually many of them are injured in different levels. As football is a solid sport, players are easy to be injured but there are also some factors that make it more risky. How this sport effect on players' lives and the football organizations' lack of caring on players is the main reason of the risk. As a result, this sport should be innovated in order to make it safer. 
	Football is a sport that is easy to cause injuries. Nevertheless, how these injuries will make players' lives different? Football is popular in not only professional league but also in high schools and colleges. A lot of students are passionate to play football for their schools and become popular among students; however, the truth they don't know is that playing football may bring negative effects to their whole lives. According to the research done by a Purdue research team, "94 percent of the people who play football don't go beyond high school" (Cordes, 2014, para. 4). After being hit by big hits while playing football, not all the players will have a concussion but that does not mean their brain is not affected. Due to the research done by Purdue Research team, 75% of the hit will not work immediately but may affect players' brain. Also, the injuries in football may give people not only the injuries on their bodies but also in career lives. As a perfect example, Brent Bott is a former Purdue football player and later become a salesperson. Nevertheless, "he experienced spells of headaches, dizziness, memory loss and other medical problems - the result of his head injuries sustained while playing football - that made it impossible for him to continue working at that level." (Saran, 2014, para. 4). Football is a sport with a lot of contacts so there will definitely be injuries. With so many chances to get injured, players have the chance to be injured really seriously and the long term effect on players' bodies will even cost more. As the some of the injuries will make injuries immediately and the others will last for longer time football is a dangerous sport. 
	Because playing football is easy to be injured, the football organizations need to do activities to care about players more; however, they do not do as much as they can. So what do they need to do in order to make football a safer sport? In America, college football is so popular so the broadcasting company will sign a new contract immediately after the new schedule is released. One reason of the popularity of football is the contacts which make people excited. If they change the rule, the game may become less intense and the football lovers will lose the passion. As a result, the sport organization does not do any change. The equipment is the most necessary protection players so it is the thing that always needs to be improved but the standard has never changed since 1973. In recent thirty years, the players are getting stronger but people still use old equipment to protect themselves, which is really risky. Although Riddel, one of the most biggest football equipment companies, always sell new products but it actually has no contribution to preventing players be injured because these new products usually only change the appearance and change a little in protection. Also, the sport organizations do not give the retiring players enough care. A lot of players are suffered with the disease caused by playing football but the football organizations do not give them any compensatory. Like what Stratton, a former college football player, said, the organizations only treat them as a tool for making money and when they retire, they do not care them anymore. If the organizations want to protect the players and try to increase the safety, they can do a lot and change the current condition. If the organizations impose pressure on the football equipment companies and pay them enough, these companies will make better equipment quicker. These organizations can also set up a foundation for the injury research and pay for the medicine fee for the retired players. Football is a sport played by players and these organizations cannot do anything without them, as a result, they have the responsibility to protect these players and they have the ability to do it. 
	Although football is not a safe sport, it is still one of the most popular sports in the world and entertains people so much. Moreover, it is a more than a sport and can be called as a business related to a lot of money. As a result, football cannot be banned easily so protecting the football players and make them play safer games. So what are the ideas of making football safer is the question to research. Most importantly, the football equipment must be improved to reduce the physical injuries. Nowadays, the Purdue research team in 2012 had started to create to absorb the force better in the hits in order to reduce concussion. For the children, they can start with flag football. As the former football player Randy Cross stated, children "can learn rules and fundamentals in a controlled environment where the risk of head injury would be significantly diminished" (Shpigel, 2012, para. 16). 
There is no doubt that football is a high risky sport because it is very easy to get injured and the injury number each year can be a good proof. Plus, the ignorance of the football organizations makes the condition even worse. The progress of changing football into a safer sport is not easy and it needs collaboration. With players' cautious, improvement of protective equipment and the protection for the youth, it can be a sport that is safe but still as popular as it did. 
