P5D3 Can computer games be a hobby of children in school?		 
April 26, 2015 
Can computer games be a hobby of children in school? 
	Everything has relationships with computer games are seemed "evil" by parents and teachers. When I was young, my mother allowed me to play computer games only half an hour on weekends. However, children who like playing computer games have no differences with some children like playing basketball. I think computer games should be accepted by schools as a kind of hobby of children. 
	Different children have different hobbies in school, most hobbies are appreciated by parents and teachers. If a children can draw a very beautiful picture, the teacher will consider him/her owning "deft hands". Nevertheless, if any child is known as good at playing computer games, he/she will be considered as "addict". It's really unfair, playing well on computer games need much more effort and skill than draw a simple picture. In a research paper called "Testing E-sports athletes: A study on competitive gaming" (2014) of Alexander Ferm and Simon Galle, who are experts of The Swedish School of Sports. They indicated that players of E-sports need a fast reaction speed, so they can react to any changes or orders given by their teammates in game, they also need a sensitive brain to think up for strategies, a good strategy can be an essential element of winning a game with enemies who have similar strength. (P5-P6) So children who can play computer games well should be good at reasoning and analyzing. Thus, why not throw stereotype away, give these children encourages? 
	Gaming can combine with educational things. For example, students in engineering major can play a kind of game named Try Engineering which requires players to design vehicles which can pass complex obstacles and defense enemies' attack. This game is actually a homework for engineering students to train their ability of imagination and designing, students need to spend hours to finish their homework on this game, but they don't feel boring while playing this game, because every section of the game is different; when a student finish one task, he/she will see the next task which seemed more interesting than the last task, so players will get in "addict" of doing their homework. However, if the homework is in traditional style like multiple choice or analyzing, students must freak out if they take hours to finish this kind of homework. The fact is that homework in style of gaming can attract students to do it. Combining academic things with computer games should be more effective in primary education, because children are easier to be attracted by things they are interested in. If teachers can perfectly mix class with something from computer games, children will be more willing to go for classes, so more children who do not do well in school because of they are not interested in classes will be more concentrated in their classes. 
	Gaming can train children's ability of designing and thinking, and it may be helpful in teaching, but people may think the harmfulness is larger than the benefit. The most thing people worry about is that computer games are addiction, some people believe that most children will get in addict if they touch computer games, if children get in addict, they will not be able to control themselves to spend more time on games; many children in deep addiction will escape from their schools for gaming. However, addiction is not something that is impossible to get rid of, oppositely, letting children control themselves from video games is a good chance to train children's ability of controlling themselves. If parents and teachers can spend a little time taking care of the attitude games, they can stop children from getting in addict at the first time. Schools can give lessons of self-control. Although children are too young to understand any big principles, they know what is beneficial for them and what is harmful. So preventing children from addiction is not a very hard thing. 
	As a conclusion, computer game can be a very good hobby for children in school. Playing computer games in adapted time can improve the alacrity of brain and give children more chance to practice their imagination. Thus teachers and parents should take care of this topic, students who like playing computer games should be treated fairly, computer games should be considered as a kind of healthy hobby in school. 
