p5d3_arp 
December 10, 2015 
Was Chinese Music not as Prosperous as Western Music in History? 
Music is so relevant to our life. And, to tremendous of people, it is not a hobby but a career, a life. Music contains lots of different branches, pop music, country music, or classical music, etc. In this argumentative paper, I will keep focusing on the Chinese traditional music and Western classical music. I heard lots of people saying that Chinese music is not as prosperous and influential as western music, because Chinese famous musicians were much less than western musicians like Mozart and Beethoven. Even I thought so previously. However, with deeper research on my topics, interviewing an expert, reading professional articles about my research, I believe that Chinese traditional music was as prosperous as western music, even more influential than western music. 
Initially, the importance of position of traditional Chinese music in history can show it's prosperity. Traditional Chinese music could be divided to two parts generally. On the one hand, to rulers and governors, the role of music was significant to maintain social order. As written in article "History and development of traditional Chinese music and western music" by Tang yun, (2008), a typical example is that "in Western Zhou dynasty, rulers considered music was an effective method of governing people to maintaining a feudal order". According to Tang (2008), "music was used by different classes in different occasions such as ceremony of sacrificing, presenting in front of emperor and etc." For example, "Six Generation Compositions"1 which were solemn and on a grand scale, was used for sacrificing for universe, mountains and rivers. "Song of Praise" 2was used in the ceremony of sacrificing to ancestor of the emperor and meeting for emperors and other significant occasions related to emperor. Besides, lots of other music forms had different features, and some were used in banquet for imperial concubines, and some were used for folk amusement (Tang, 2008). 
On the other hand, music in folk was highly developed. Some individuals played the instruments for expressing feelings, some for improving themselves, and some for living. In almost every dynasty, different individuals composed different types of music and genres, which led to a high diversity of music. Article written by Tang (2008,p3) emphasized that "in Ming and Qing dynasty, there are some genres of musical forms which had totally different features, such as 'Ma tone' representing a candid character, 'Yu tone' representing a majestic and isolated character, and 'Chen tone' representing a soft and mild tone. Generally, some new forms of instrumental ensembles appeared." (2008,p11) Consequently, lots of folks contributed to the diversity of Traditional Chinese music, promoting a prosperity of folk music. 
Equal importantly, prosperity of Chinese traditional music appeared in abundant compositions and artworks. Though plenty of people don't familiar with those traditional compositions, it doesn't mean they don't exist. In China, Music appeared in every remote time and lasted for a long time. Compositions were enriched, various and distributive in every stages in history. An instance from article by Liu Fang was that "some masterpieces were transcribed successfully to classical repertoire nowadays and there are more and more musicians nowadays rethink the spiritual side of the classical tradition" (2007.p2). It demonstrated that the value and significance of traditional compositions. Besides, there were lots of great compositions, such as "Ping Sha Luo Yan" in Ming Dynasty, "Yang Guan San Die", "Kong Zhong Niao Yu", played in Erhu and other instruments. 
Two main reasons can explain why people don't know so much about the Chinese compositions. Firstly, tremendous valuable documents about music were destroyed by replacement of different dynasties and political power. Even though, we can not ignore the prosperity of music compositions and existence of great compositions. In an interview with Chunfu Wu, a professor in Music College of Hunan Normal University, he emphasized: "social transformation in China was usually demolishing, which caused gaps between traditional culture and music, and lots of documents about the music and musicians vanished", And he pointed out that we cannot deny that there were lots of musicians and compositions in different stages, and distributed dispersedly." (Wu, 2015) 
Secondly, methods of remembering and recording music score between western music and Chinese music were totally different, causing people unfamiliar with Chinese compositions and have difficulty to read and understand Chinese composition. Professor Wu stressed that "Chinese folk music was based on Just intonation3 and Pythagorean tuning4, but western compositions usually had the similar rules for determining musical notes, and their methods are totally different from each other". (interview report) Consequently, different methods and difficulty hindered lots of people to learn and understand more Chinese traditional music, leading them an illusion of deficiency of Chinese compositions. Thus, traditional Chinese compositions were abundant and enriched in every stages, completely embodied the prosperity of Traditional Chinese music in history. 
Some people insist that China in history didn't have many professional musicians like Beethoven, Mozart who created so many famous compositions. I thought so previously. However, after researching, I reversed my thought. What I want to emphasize is that Western and Chinese music had different features and characteristics in development. For Chinese music, who promoted music to progress were folks and common people, and lots of them were not "professional" musicians, but their creation was nature and spontaneous. From my perspective, it was exactly an exhibition of diversity and prosperity of music. 
In conclusion, Chinese music was very prosperous in history, which embodied in different aspects, particularly in the position of Chinese music, diversity of Chinese music and abundance of compositions. History of Chinese music was interesting and fascinating, and its development totally differed from that of western music. I will keep concentrating on it to better my research and conclusion. 
Reference: 
A Brief introduction to Traditional Chinese Classical Music-The Differences and Common Ground between Classical (literati) and Folk traditions from a Historical Perspective" published by Liu Fang, 2001, revised in May,2007 
"History and Development of Traditional Chinese music and Western Music" Written by Yun Tang in 2008 
Interview with Professor <name> in Music College of Hunan Normal University in 2015 
1 Six Generation Compositions: six representing compositions used for prasing empreor. 
2 Song of Praise: songs and poems of blessing, usually used in significant ceremonies. 
3 Just intonation: one of main series of combining musical notes, which is harmonious. 
4 Pythagorean tuning: another one of main series of combining musical notes, which has Chinese traditional features. 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
