Argumentative paper, draft 1 
April 2, 2016 
Breaking The Stereotype: Lack Of Women Engineers 
Every now and then we see debates on which side of the gender is better in science and engineering. And from my personal experience, it is always the males that are thought of as the better between the two in the field. But is this argument even valid? Are women actually lacking in capacity to take on engineering position? The answer is - No! As a matter of fact, women are equally competitive to men. They have gone to the very top of an organization and held pivotal positions, for example Mary T. Barra (CEO of GM) and Indra K. Nooyi (CEO of Pepsi Co Inc.). If these women can be the top personalities, why not others? 
Strangely, it all started from the time we humans were born. Right from the stone age, we know that men used to go on hunting and women used to take care of children. As the tools were fairly simple at that time, men invested a lot of their time in developing strategies and traps to get food. This improved their logical part of the brain more. Does that mean women lack logic? Definitely not! But as females were reduced to maintaining households, it became a trait of the gender. Children grew up knowing males will go hunting and women in charge of cooking and house. 
As the time passed, the roles did not change. Comes the industrialization age, where men go on to work and women, as usual, taking care of home. It was obvious to have more men engineers at that time therefore. And ever since, it has been men who dominate the work force, until lately, when the female decided to earn for themselves and stand in this world on their own two feet. Not only engineering, we started seeing more women entering into the job market in every sector. But it is true that we have very few women going into engineering and instead going into other job sectors. Presently only about 18 percent to 20 percent of engineering students being female women (Crawford, 2012). 
Why do women not look at engineering as a fascinating job? I shall discuss the problem to you but first let me iterate why we need women engineers at the first place. Are men not getting the job done? They are definitely on top of their work, but the thing is, different gender brings different perspective. Also, only women can describe the things that will make their lives better and come up with their solutions. Female brain is known to be more creative than male. So bringing that creativeness into the industry is really important, especially that now there is so much competition in the market. 
Now that its established why more women engineers are needed, let us see why we are lacking in their numbers. My extensive research on this topic could only come to one conclusion that women are equally competitive and skilled as men are when it comes to engineering, it is only their thinking and thought process that makes women think they are not capable or otherwise deters them from this industry. According to Mr. <Name>, a post-doctoral research associate in psychological sciences at Purdue University, it is only a 'psychological disbelief' present in society that women cannot achieve success in engineering which holds them back from becoming engineers. He explains, "Men think that women are not as competent as them in Engineering, although this should not affect women psychology, but as women are brought up in this mindset, it makes them feel less confident of their own skills. This is the reason when it comes to choosing a career, women feel more confident in non-engineering disciplines" (Aue, personal communication, 2016 March 3). As we can see here, the environment that women grow up in makes them think they are not competent and they never value their own skills, and rather undermine their skills. Women start believing that engineering should be left on to the other gender. 
Some studies claim that differences in brain structures between the two genders is the reason why we see less women in the field. I must approve that there are minor differences in brain structures and how the two genders use their brains, but in no way does this incapacitates women. Mr. <Name> explains that, "Differences in brain functioning is seen in how the two brains process information. Women tend to store the information as such, whereas men try and break down the information into logical patterns. But psychology plays a much greater role (in choosing engineering)." So even though there are differences in male and female brain structures, it doesn't explain quite enough why less women look upon to engineering jobs. 
While talking to my peers about this topic, they suggested that maybe women do not find engineering a fascinating workplace, and this is why they do not think of going to that field. I definitely believe this might be true. But then how do men find this field interesting and women do not? The only possible explanation I can think of again is the thinking that women hold. "Women believe engineering is a very challenging field for them. Although engineering is definitely challenging, but it is equally intimidating to both genders. Women just have less confidence on their skills and so naturally take less interest in it", explains Mr. <Name>. If we combine this with the fact that women are aware of the belief in the society that male are superior to them in engineering (which is not true though), we can easily see why women do not find engineering any interesting. 
These were the two major arguments that I have come across after my extensive research apart from the one being why we need increased women engineers, which I have already addressed in the beginning. And all of these arguments can be easily explained by the simple argument that I have presented i.e. it is only a stereotype and misbelief held in the society. Moreover, we can easily fix this problem by creating awareness and soon maybe a woman turns up with an amazing engineering marvel, who knows! 
