Argumentative Essay 
Title 
Internet trolls refer to the people who send many off-topic messages to disrupt people's normal discussion and make people angry. As the size of the Internet continues to expand, the actions of trolling have also evolved. For example, some radical trolls hacked the Facebook accounts of dead people and played jokes by sending inflaming messages. Surprised by its great impact, society starts to pay more attention to the Internet trolling. People try to come up with solutions of Internet trolling, such as banning trolls' accounts. Many users of social network sites have been enraged by trolls, and some users even receive death threats from Internet trolls. Therefore, some people think the government should make Internet trolling illegal in order to control the negative impact of Internet trolling. However, even if many users think Internet trolls are annoying, making Internet trolling illegal might not be an effective solution. 
People who support prosecuting Internet trolling have several ideas which sounded reasonable. First of all, they claim that Internet trolling has already caused physical damage to the victims. For instance, a 16-year-old girl named Jessica was found dead at her home. Her profile on Ask.fm, a website where users can post questions on their pages, showed that she was branded "fat" and "a slut". It is certain the Internet trolling made her under pressure and indirectly caused her death. Therefore, people suggest control Internet trolling by law is necessary. Second, some people claim that letting the government control Internet trolling will be more effective than letting the administrators(admins) do. During the interview with <name> , the CEO of Wow technology limit company, <name> told me that the admins of the online forums could hardly control Internet trolling since the trolls can create new accounts immediately after they are banned. If the government can take part in controlling Internet trolls, these people are certain that the number of trolls will drop quickly. Third, they suggest that the offensive messages sent by Internet trolls are not included in freedom of speech. Thus, Internet trolling is not protect by the First Amendment and should be restricted. In the following paragraphs, I will rebut these oppositions with reasons and examples. 
The first reason for not making Internet trolling illegal is that many bad results of Internet trolling have already covered in other current laws. Many people suggest that Internet trolling has taken numerous people's lives by making the victims feel like they do not need to live. Therefore, they suggest Internet trolling should be considered as a crime and be punished by laws. It is true that Internet trolling causes some negative effects which violate the law. However, Internet trolling is a vague and broad term, which includes several aspects of actions, such as upsetting others and interrupting normal discussions. While threatening to harm others is clearly risky, whether interrupting normal discussions should be prosecuted is still questionable, since this kind of Internet trolling only make people annoyed instead of making them in grief. Therefore, because of the vague meaning of Internet trolling, making Internet trolling illegal will result in difficulties during enforcement process. Also, these injurious results of Internet trolling have already covered by current laws. For example, in Britain, Malicious Communications Act 1988 suggests that any person who sends to another person any article or electronic communication, which is of an indecent or grossly offensive nature, is guilty of an offense. Therefore, making Internet trolling illegal is neither practicable nor necessary. 
The second reason for not prosecute Internet trolling is that proving the intent of a threat from the Internet is really challenging. There are many people believe that since the small social network sites fail to control Internet trolling due to their limited technology and funds, the government, which has greater power and more resources, it is able to track Internet trolls and send them into jail. To some extent this thought is true. Definitely, letting the government track Internet trolls will be more effective than the administers from social network sites. However, tracking Internet trolls is only the first step of controlling Internet trolling. Proving the intent of a trolling message also plays an important role. According to Claire Hardaker, an academic from Lancaster University who studies online aggression, proving that the Internet trolls really mean it when they send threat messages and they really had the means to carry it out is very difficult. Certainly, Claire suggested, when you received a message from a stranger on the Internet that said "I am going to kill you", there was a possibility that this guy really meant it. However, for example, if your mum sent the same text, she might simply be angry because you forgot to bring something she asked for. Therefore, since the police had to figure out the real intents of the Internet trolls before arresting them, the effect of prosecuting Internet trolling will not be as great as people imagine. 
Outline 3rd Paragraph: 
It's true that offensive threats is an exception of freedom of speech, but there insufficient reason to engage the law if only the content is in bad taste or unpopular. 
