Argumentative Essay Draft #3 
11/10/15 
A Repeat of What Happened 
-From 1997-2015 
	Stock market has gained more attention from people nowadays, as it is an important way for people to earn money. Some people speculate on the market, while some play it with skills and inside information. All of them expected to earn money from it especially in 2014 and the beginning of 2015 as there was a bull market at that time where the price of stocks kept rising and went into a really high place. However, a big crash happened suddenly that the price of nearly all the stocks fell down so quickly. Money evaporated with bubbles imploding, and people lost a huge amount of money in the stock market. This catastrophe drew my attention, so I decided to dig deeper to find out the essence of this Great Fall. I had researched on how and why it happened, what we need to do next, and what government acted in this crash. But most importantly, I have learned that it is a repeat of what happened-the Asian Crisis in 1997 and the financial Crisis in 2008. Some may not agree as they think this Great Fall is not as bad as those two before, but I believe there are some inner connections between those crashes. 
	A hidden injury always comes out gradually, so people may neglect how it works. Some experts indicates that the crisis in 1997 has been well learned as the currency float freely now rather than being highly controlled (Economist, Aug 2015). However, though it is true that this crisis was about the price going back to the initial price, the crisis happened in 1997 and 2008 does influence the Great Fall in 2015. Also, after stimulated by $585,000,000,000 from the United State crash in 2008, China didn't injured much. However, it was only a matter of time. People should not be too optimistic as China still needs time to recover from any attack (Walden B, 2015). It has been 18 years since 1997 - long enough for people to believe that time has floated everything that happened that time. But if we dig deeper, we can easily find out how these "injuries" relate to each other and how the one before influences the next one. 
	Patterns would be another element that we will compare to figure out if they are similar or not. Comparing the process of these three crisis that closely related to China, we can easily find out many similar things. Neither Chinese government, nor investors has prepared before these three crashes. Both the Asian Crisis in 1997 and the Great Fall in 2015 began with the devaluation of the currency and then expend to the international market. All of them happened after a long bull market and a suddenly crisis in price, which makes people trapped in a panic and sell their stocks insanely. These facts indicate that three crashes are really similar to each other. Their degrees of harm might not be the same, but they got the same essences. 
	Stock market always has close relationship with government especially in China as it needs to be controlled more or less, so we could compare how government in China acted in these three crashes to find out if they are the same. As pointed out by <name>, Chinese stock market is highly controlled by the government. Just like before in 1997 and 2008, investors from other countries still cannot get equal right in China. This prevent the stock market in China from going out to the international market thoroughly. <name> also illustrated that Chinese government didn't construct a complete set of rules and regulations for the stock market. In this case, the stock market runs with many bugs and the government has to jumped into the market to pull back the price of the stocks after this crash. The government did a lot and was blamed a lot, and they didn't improve a lot in this aspect. <name> said that among these three big crashes that related closely to China, we can easily see that the government should let the market runs itself and build complete law and regulations for it. Moreover, more channels for people to put money in must be built as the channels didn't increase much since 1997 while people are much richer than before. Too much money being put into the stock market must cost a lot of bubbles of the market which are really easy to burst. 
	No matter how long the time went by, history always repeats itself. It is not precisely to say that the Great Fall happened in 2015 is a duplication of the Asian Crisis in 1997. But we can easily see their relationship and how the Asian Crisis and the Financial Crisis influence this crash in stock market. China has been influenced a lot after those two crisis in 1997 and 2008 even though this didn't show much at that time. Also the processes are similar and government didn't change much. With the fast development nowadays, maybe it is really necessary to look back and learn from the history. 
