Whether international students should join native students' programs 
College and university campuses have activities that are designed to foster friendships. For international students who study abroad for the first time, it is a great opportunity to learn American culture and get involved in college if they join local student programs such as learn community. I think it is meaningful to interact with other people in order to develop my social life skills because interaction is fundamental for everything. But recently, a lot of people point out that, on the contrary, joining American students' programs is not only useless, but also negative for international students. So base on this opinion, I started researching about this topic to defend my viewpoint. 
I believe that international students should join local programs in order to know how to get along with domestic students better according to my previous interview. But there was a piece of news that posted on North American students' daily newspaper with the title of "Do you really win if you stay with American students?" John Lee who is the author said many international students wanted to live like local American students, so they joined American activities, went to different parties, and focused on adventure sports etc. The most obvious example would be fraternity. We always see two people carried one drunk student wobbling out off the door of the fraternity. As long as people joined local students programs, they are expose to touching tobacco, marijuana, and other types of drugs. These kinds of things which were rarely seeing in their home country were commonly occurred in the United State. Basically, the programs do not look as gorgeous as we think. Getting involved in these local organizations means catching the America's latest trend is a completely wrong conception. People needed to made friends with somebody who had positive influence instead of only focusing on being part of small group of American students. All in all, international students would be better off if they don't join these programs 
	 Even though John Lee offers me another perspective to look at the local organizations, but for me, I still agree with my point that international students should join the local organizations. First, according to what John said, I would not totally agree. He was biased and was being unfair to some people. We could not 100% guarantee that all the friends from the same countries were people who had good habits. Like in China, there was a hot topic on Fenguang website showed that there was an increasing number of Chinese students chose to study aboard, and a big part of them came from wealthy family. Their lives were occupied by luxuries, parties and alcohol, in other word, their purpose in American was just to waste four years. Students who played with them would also become corrupt and negatively harmed. People who have good hearts are basically depended on the people they hang out with rather than people from different countries. It is true that American students born to be free and open, but it doesn't represented that all of them take drugs and sleep until noon. 
Furthermore, Professor Cameron Diaz Jones who came from Bucknell University in Pennsylvania gave us an opinion that meeting foreign made people know themselves and their home country. Through communicating with local students, international students would find the weakness in themselves and the difference between American education and the education in their home country. For example, natives would pay more attention on sports because they thought a good figure was the fundamental for extra study. However, such simple truth doesn't be accepted by international students, especially Chinese students who were willing to spend the whole time staying in rooms reading books. Because of this, they would surely know how to improve themselves. When they meet new American friends, American people are always interested to know what it's really like in international students' home country. That has made them think about their own country, so they could share more information with natives. If international people never left home, they would not need to consider these things. So in many ways, a U.S. education means much more than sitting in a classroom and studying for a degree. People would seldom talked about their home country when they stocked with their "home country friends." That must the second advantage for international students to made friends in local programs. 
What's more, let us talk about another advantage to join the local program---practicing English. As I said before, English is the base for student to study in United States, and the best way to learn English is to make friends with native speakers as well as join as many activities as you can. In Areddy James' article "Chinese Learn English", he mentioned that hanging out with natives not only naturally pushed them to improve their conversational English, but also helped them pick up cultural and social cues. And one of the greatest tests of a person's fluency in English is to put them in a room with a bunch of native speakers and see if they can follow and contribute to the conversation. The more international students conversed with others in English, the better they got. It was easy to imagine that if they always stick with people from their own country as well as using their mother language, what would happened finally. 
Lastly, socialization is one of the most important aspects of their experience. It is essential for the development of individuals who can participate and function within their societies, as well as for ensuring that a society's cultural features will be carried on through their whole life. The point was that their friends from their own country would never show them the real local culture and American thinking mode. But as long as they joined the local organizations, they would get used to the phenomenon in United State and explore different ways of leaning and playing. For example, my routine was basically going from class to apartment for the first month in American, since I joined the community of college of science, I went to go to the Indianapolis zoo, corn maze and Tippecanoe school to play with kids. All the events which I attended changed my boring life to an interesting life. It got me involved and I feel like I am part of the college. When I wrote my interview paper, I interviewed my international instructor, she said that people like me had to face not only the problem in English, but also the culture differences. Her suggestions were exactly what I thought---join local programs and learn American culture. So building on my own experience and my interview, I strongly recommend international students attend to such activities and made friends with domestic students. 
To draw a conclusion, there are still some disadvantages and concerns for international students to join local students' programs, and the phenomenon which the newspaper posters on still exist. But for me, joining local programs not only helps international students practicing their English, meeting more American friends, better getting involved in college, but also helps them know themselves better. Depending on what I said, it is worth for international students to join native students' programs. 
