11. 20 
Media's Negative Effect on Perfect Body Images 
Nowadays, public are deeply influenced by perfect body images. They make people care more about appearance and make girls feel pressure. In our daily life, we can easily see perfect women in pictures. In fact, women do not have to be perfect. These images give a lot pressure to girls. Therefore, media plays negative role on that topic. 
Advertisements prefer use perfect women as models. The brand will invite beautiful and slight women as their spokesperson. When you go shopping in Shanghai, you can see sundry advertisements besides road or in mall. These advertisements have a common point----women are perfect and suitable for the productions. However, when girls try the productions, they will find difference between reality and advertisements. After that, they may feel disappointed and want to change their appearance. It happens a lot. Once I went to a mall, the clothes seemed beautiful on models, so choose some of them to try. In contrast, the clothes are not suitable for me at all. I felt so sad and bought nothing. As a result, girls are willing to lose weight so that they may be suitable for clothes as models. Advertisements influence us a lot for they are around us. When we watch TV, we can see advertisements. When we walk on the street, we can see advertisements. When we surf the Internet, we still can see advertisements. 
Besides advertisements, magazines also make negative effect. In magazines, women make up and wear heeled shoes. They make women think about using more make up to change themselves. Actually, makeup is not healthy and heeled shoes are not healthy, too. Women wear heeled shoes all day will feel tired. This situation happens in all magazines. Magazines become part of our lives. Some people will choose reading magazines when they are bored. Therefore, pictures in magazines also make obvious effect. Additionally, some magazines have part of fashion. They will introduce some makeup and clothes. Girls will through magazines to learn how to become more beautiful and thinner. 
YOONNAYA producer 03.03. 2015 
Compared with advertisements and magazines, Internet makes more negative influence. Because more and more people use Internet everyday and Internet has more information. It has more obvious effect. And there is no barrier to access Internet. All people can upload photos and videos. Everybody has no barrier to see photos and videos through You Tube and Twitter. Through these media, we see a lot of perfect body images and feel pressured. For example, fans will upload their idol's photo on twitter. All stars look beautiful and thin. It is true that stars are thinner than normal person. However, fans will use Photoshop before uploading photos. It makes stars look more beautiful and more slight. Some girls will regard stars as their target. Besides stars, friends also upload their photos. When friends around us all pay attention to losing weight, our emotion will be influenced, too. You will use same ways as your friend to lose weight and to change appearance. You may at first have no idea about losing weight but you will be changed by media. 
However, media can make positive effect, too. When you feel inferior or disappointed, we could find encourage things through media. If you feel tired, you can find warm event in the Internet or on the newspaper. And there are lots of people are same as you. You can encourage each other and change your mind. Girls do not have to be thin or beautiful enough. People are all different. We need not live as a standard. No barrier and convenience are both media's advantages and disadvantages. For media is convenient and has large information, we can get positive examples from media. 
We should use media accurately. At present, media plays negative role because of lots of perfect body images. We should change the current situation. If we use media in positive ways, it will have great result for media has large influence. However, if we use media in negative ways, it will make more people feel sad. Therefore, media may put less pictures, video or articles about perfect body. It can record more warm stories or encouraged articles. Using media in different ways will have different effect. Using more positive articles to make girls know that they are perfect enough and they do not need change their appearance or lose their weight. They should live happily. 
