Argumentative Essay Draft#3 
Date: November16 
Accounting Diversity in the Workplace 
As the ideologue and financial regulations vary from country to country, different areas of the world are using different accounting systems, which is known as accounting diversity. In different accounting systems, financial information is used and recorded differently, which becomes a limitation for accountants. Under different accounting education systems, accountants are taught in specific ways of processing financial information, so their accounting knowledge may only be applicable to some specific accounting systems. In this case, accounting diversity may seem to be an obstacle for international employees in accounting area and some claim that those international employees may fail to be qualified accountants in indigenous accounting system. However, based on the research and interview I have done for the project, accounting diversity can actually benefit accountants who are trained internationally in the long run. 
In my interview with [name], a professional in [Business Corporation], she mentioned that accounting diversity does challenge accountants when they are exposed to new accounting systems (personal communication, October 27, 2015). Based on her work experiences in Korean Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler (KPMG), she pointed out that differences between definitions of technical terms challenge international employees in terms of interacting with professionals in indigenous accounting systems. However, I view the difference as a chance rather than a challenge. Accounting diversity can actually make international employees more competitive in the industry as international and local employees are familiar with different kinds of accounting systems. With an increasing number of companies desiring to build relationships with companies throughout the world, accountants that are familiar with international accounting systems are needed by companies to follow the globalization trend. In this case, international employees have the advantage of bring companies to the global market and help them gain more new customers. 
Accounting diversity helps to prepare accountants for their careers and makes them qualified for entering into the area. During the process of adapting to accounting diversity, international employees can develop the ability of working under different accounting systems and regulations. Considering the changing environment they will face in their daily work, the ability can help them perform well in the area. According to Career Explorer (n.d.), working as accountants takes life-long learning. Since the regulations and information in accounting change frequently, the daily work of accountants can be different. In addition, even different companies have different accounting rules. To keep track of the changing environment and requirements for accountants, being able to quickly adapt to the changing environment and to absorb updated information are critical qualities for accountants. In this case, accounting diversity actually makes international accountants well-prepared for working as accountants. 
As accounting education in different parts of the world is based on different accounting systems, accounting diversity leads to various types of accounting education. Thanks to specialty of each accounting education system, international employees can be more competitive than indigenous employees for having more chances to improve communication skills. In this case, accounting diversity also provides international employees with specific advantages that distinguish them from indigenous employees. 
Based on [name] experiences, she benefited greatly from American accounting education in terms of improving interaction skills, which are of great significance in accounting. (personal communication, October27, 2015). When she was a graduate student in [University], she was exposed to various opportunities to work and to talk with others, ranging from talking to recruiters in career fairs to doing case analyses with MBA students during management classes. By contrast, she also mentioned that in some Asian countries, students don't have many opportunities to engage in classes and socialize with others, leading to their having few opportunities to practice interaction skills. Therefore, being capable of having effective communication with others can make [name] more competitive in the workplace as daily work of accountants requires good interaction skills. According to Career Explorer (n.d.), teamwork is highly valued in accounting. Considering that accounting principles and knowledge update frequently and are really complex, it is fairly important for accountants to work as teams and to share useful information with each other. Thus, interaction skills can be really important for accountants to work effective in the workplace. In this case, Asian students who work in their own countries after graduating from American university may have better interaction skills and play a more active role in the group work than local employees. 
To conclude, international employees can benefit from accounting diversity in more ways than one. Besides preparing them for facing challenges in their careers, accounting diversity also arm international employees with specific advantages that help them have further developments in accounting. To make full preparations for their future careers, international accountants can make early preparations of learning accounting systems that are connected with their work and keep track of changing accounting regulations. Preparing for indigenous Certified Public Accountant (CPA) exam may also be a good way to have a comprehensive understanding of the accounting and meet the requirement for being professional accountants in local accounting system. 
Reference 
Michelle, P. (2015, May 15). REUTERS SUMMIT-China needs millions more accountants to raise 
standards. Reuters. Retrieved from http://www.cnbc.com/2015/05/15/ 
Career Explorer. (n.d.). A day in the life of an accountant. Retrieved from 
http://www.careerexplorer.net/day-life/day-life-accountant 
