Argumentative Essay 
November 23, 2015 
Why livestock production is harmful 
		People may argue that direct emission from livestock production create the most amount of pollution, and is the main reason why livestock production is detrimental to the environment. The opposing view claims that the ruminant animals are the main sources of nitrous emission as livestock production is responsible for 65 percent of global anthropogenic emissions of nitrous oxide. Ruminant animals do produce Nitrous emission, but a huge amount of the emission of nitrous oxide is produced by indirect emission such as soil emission, fuel use, and fertilizer production. Moreover, people may argue that animals can create a great amount of carbon emission due to their breathing. However, the main sources of carbon emission created by livestock production is caused by the change of land-use. People may argue that ruminant animals emit a huge amount of methane. Nonetheless, methane can be recycled for energy if people decide to do so. 
Therefore, is is reasonable for people to argue that the direct emission of livestock production is the main reason why it is harmful to the environment, but these are not true. 
		Animals do breathe and produce carbon dioxide, but the deforestation caused by livestock production emit more greenhouse gas. According to the article called "Intensive Sustainable Livestock Production: An Alternative to Tropical Deforestation", more than 600,000 hectares of forests are destroyed annually in South America, and the main reason of the transformation of land-use is the need to increase area of cattle grazing. 600,000 hectares of forests can absorb 1,800,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide. However, because of the land clearing, instead of absorbing 1,800,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide, according to Vale (2012), deforestation emit more atmospheric carbon dioxide than the total carbon dioxide produced by transportation as 15 percent of emission of carbon dioxide is caused by deforestation. Compared to the carbon dioxide produced by livestock production which is about 200 million tons per year, according to WWF (World Wildlife Fund), deforestation caused by cattle ranching is responsible for 340 million tons of emission of Carbon Dioxide annually, which is about 3. 4 percent of global emission of carbon dioxide. This emission is greater than the amount of emission caused by livestock production directly. Apart from the emission released by the forest directly during logging, the cleared forest can sequester a great amount of greenhouse gases. Therefore, the main source of emission of carbon dioxide caused by livestock production is the indirect emission caused by deforestation as opposed to direct emission caused by the breath of the animal and the production of the meat. 
		Moreover, even though livestock production emits a huge amount of nitrous oxide directly by its fermentation and manure, the problem is solvable. First, managing the diet of the animals can control the amount of manure and its composition efficiently, as the characteristics of feces and urine can be modified. For example, by reducing the protein in the pig food, ammonia can be reduced. Furthermore, there are many treatments for the existing manure, and mainly it can be separated into three sectors including "stabilisation which enables time for the use of manure nutrients in a growing crop", "concentration and export", or "elimination of an undesirable loss, such as CH4 or NH3 emission". (Petersen. et al, 2007) In some countries, people burn the manure to reduce the Nitrogen, but it might reduce the plant availability, and in other countries, people use the manure in different ways. The objective is to reduce pollution, and meanwhile use the surplus. Therefore, although animal manure directly emits Nitrous Oxide, the manure can still be beneficial. 
	Similarly, some people states that livestock production is a great contributor of methane emission as 86 million tons of methane are released by ruminants' enteric fermentation, and 18 million tons of methane is released from animal manure. However, though the methane produced by fermentation cannot be recycled, it can be reduced by enhancing the quality of the food people use to feed the animals. Meanwhile, the methane produced by animals' manure can be recycled to energy. According to the article called "Cow Power", if methane digester can be installed on most California dairies farms, the environment would be protected as if one million of the cars are off the road which is 5% of the car in the state. The recycled energy can be used as electricity, fuel of renewable vehicle, and natural gas. The electricity produced can be used on the farm which reduces the cost of the farm, and the surplus could be sold as well. Moreover, the electricity produced by the manure of the farm can be use to substitute the power form fossil-fuel plants, which is responsible of about 20 percent of California's greenhouse gas emission. The fuel produced from animal manure is called "biomethane", and the "biomethane" produced in California is enough for more than 100,000 vehicles. Therefore, direct emission of methane caused by livestock production is not really influential because in some ways, if people deal with this carefully, the methane produced even can be both beneficial for the environment, and the farm owners themselves. 
		In conclusion, the main reason for livestock production to be harmful for the environment is its indirect emission instead of its direct emission because though the animals produces emissions by breathing, the emission caused by deforestation caused by livestock production is greater, and though the animals produces emissions because of their enteric fermentation process, and their manure, the emission can be reduced by changing and managing the diet of the animals, and recycled to produce a great amount of energy for the farm to use. To deal with this issue, people need to develop technologies to produce meat in a better way to reduce the pollution, or people may change the form of their diet to consume less. It is necessary for people to be aware about the pollution produced by livestock production as it can influence our daily life. There are people died for the climate change because the change of climates leads to diseases. There are people who lost their way to make a life as they live by fishing, but the change of climate lead to the change of ocean current. People may believe that we are reducing the pollution because we need to save the Earth, but the fact is that the age of the earth is a lot greater then us, and the earth has already experienced a lot of destructive events, so the fact is that we are saving ourselves. 
Reference: 
Adams. C. R (n.p) Impacts of Temperature Extremes. Cooperative Institute of Research 
in the Atmosphere, Foothills Research Campus, Colorado State University. 
Enrique. M. (1990). Intensive Sustainable Livestock Production: An Alternative to				Tropical Deforestation. AMBIO, Vol.19, NO.8, Science of Sustainable					Development, pp 397-400 
Gerber, P.J., Steinfeld, H., Henderson, B., Mottet, A., Opio, C., Dijkman, J., Falcucci, A.		& Tempio, G. 2013. Tackling climate change through livestock - A global			assessment of emissions and mitigation opportunities. Food and Agriculture			Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Rome. 
Lesschen, J. P., Van den Berg, M., Westhoek, H. J., Witzke, H. P., & Oenema, O. (2011)		Greenhouse gas emission profiles of European livestock sectors. Animal Feed			Science and Technology, 166, 16-28. 
O'Mara, F. P. (2011). The significance of livestock as a contributor to global greenhouse 
gas emissions today and in the near future. Animal Feed Science and Technology, 166, 7-15.	 
Rosenzweig, C., & Parry, M. L. (1994). Potential impact of climate change on world food		supply. Nature, 367(6459), 133-138. 
Steinfeld, H., Gerber, P., Wassenaar, T., Castel, V., Rosales, M., & Haan, C. D. (2006).		Livestock's long shadow: environmental issues and options. Food and					Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). 
St-Pierre, N. R., Cobanov, B., & Schnitkey, G. (2003). Economic losses from heat stress by US livestock industries. Journal of dairy science, 86, E52-E77. 
United States Environmental Protection Agency. (2014). Greenhouse gas Equivalencies 
Calculator [Data file]. Retrieved from http://www2.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator 
Unsustainable cattle ranching(2015) Unsustainable cattle ranching , WWF Retrieved from : http://wwf.panda.org/what_we_do/where_we_work/amazon/problems/unsustainable_cattle_ranching/ 
Vale. M. (2012) Deforestation and its Extreme Effect of Global Warming. Scientific			American. Retrieved from: http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/def 
orestation-and-global-warming/ 
