The Responsibility of Purdue Dining Court 
	Ha Tran, who is an assistant manager of Hillenbrand Dining Court, told about the problem of the dining court. She said in the interview, "It is true that Purdue Dining Court do not serve only nutrition balanced food. Since we are pursing the variety of food, there is both unhealthy and healthy food in the dining court." Also, she insisted customers of the dining court are all adults so that the customers should have responsibility to intake nutrient food. However, Purdue University Dining Court have to serve nutrition balanced food to the students with several reasons such as the obesity rate of university students, unawareness of nutrition from students and the influence that students get nutrition information from the school. 
Cynthia L. Ogden, Katherine M. Flegal, Margaret D. Carroll (National Center for Health Statistics) and Brian K. Kit (United States Public Health Service) worked on a research about the obesity rate in United States. The name of the research is "Prevalence of Childhood and Adult Obesity in the United States, 2011- 2012." It is generally about the degrees of change in obesity rate between 2011 and 2012. The report says that one- third of adults and 17% of adolescents in the United States are obese. The obesity in the report defines as a body mass index (BMI), which is a measure of body fat, based on height and eight. The research tries to show that the prevalence of obesity has not changed significantly between 2011 and 2012. However, the researcher has said that even though the change is not notable, the prevalence of obesity has to be cautious due to the high rate of obesity. If we look deeply into my research, there is more significant and serious result in this report. The table 4 in the report shows a prevalence of High Body Mass Index by Selected Cut Points for Youth Aged 2 to 19 Years, by Sex, Age, and Race/Hispanic Origin, United States, 2011 -2012. The fourth column in the table, 12 -19y, which is an age that most students are, has 20.5% of obesity rate. This rate is higher than average obesity rate of 2-19y. The Non-Hispanic white, which is the majority of the population in United States, is 19.6%. Also nearly approached the average of obesity rate. 
	Ali Barzegari (Physical Education Department, Payame Noor University), Mosen Ebrahimi (Young Researchers Club, Ayatollah Amoli Branch, Islamic Azad University), Mohammad Azizi (Department of exercise physiology, University of Razi) and Kazem Ranjbar (Institue of Higher Education, Allameh Mohaddes Noori) researched about how college students intake proper nutrition or have proper knowledge by publishing "A Study of Nutrition Knowledge, Attitudes and Food Habits of College Students." The researchers insisted that the nutrition knowledge and attitudes are nowadays important because many dangerous diseases are caused by the simple lifestyle such as the attitude towards nutrition. Therefore, the researchers decided to measure the knowledge of the nutrition. They made a questionnaire to collect the information. The questions are about five sections such as attitudes towards food nutrition, body composition, the food groups and ingredients and so on. Average correct response rate is about late 50%. The main cause of low nutritional awareness is lack of information. The research says that the many students feel that it is impossible to know the nutrition without any information provided. This research shows that many students are ignorant to the nutrition of food that they eat. 
	Lastly, Heinz Freisling (Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Vienna) and Karin Haas (Department of Health, Nutrition and Dietetics, Bern University of Applied Sciences) also worked on about nutrition and adolescents related mass media and fruit and vegetable: "Mass Media Nutrition Information Sources and Associations with Fruit and Vegetable Consumption Among Adolescents" Heinz and Karin realized the nutrition towards adolescents are important especially the consumption of fruit and vegetable. They wanted figure what influenced students about their nutrition that they intake. The study shows that 46% of adolescents are influences by TV programs, 45% percent of adolescents are influenced by their relatives or friends and 34% of adolescents are influenced by their school. This study implies not only that the TV programs influence the nutrition that adolescents take but also schools are also influencing the nutrition of their students. 
	As the articles above, the unawareness of the importance of nutrition from the university students leads to the obese and overweight. This is the reason why Purdue University Dining Court should serve nutrient food. Moreover, they need to inform the nutrition of food to student because the school is the one of the biggest way to get information about the nutrition effect. 
