Why is ageism in workplace such an issue these days? 
No matter how talented or experienced an employee is, workplace history has demonstrated more than just a few times that the younger candidate is often the one to win the promotion. Age discrimination has become more than a minor societal problem throughout the time; indeed, the issue has become such a popular topic and problem within the workplace that people are dying to wait for the laws to be enacted in order to solve the problem. 
In order to help protect those who stand to be singled out and let go because of the unfairness of ageism, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) was designed with the older employee in mind. The issue at hand is that companies are not willing to hire younger workers or older workers, choosing instead to push them out of the loop rather than attempting to incorporate them as valuable potentials. Today, the general perception, or common belief is that younger workers can bring energy, deftness, and bareness but they are not fully experienced enough to bring profits as the experienced workers can. With older workers, who are around 50s or 60s, are believed to have decreasing interest, lack of innovation and imagination, and a lessening of the quality of the person. 
Recently, job seekers are reporting age discrimination beginning as early as the mid-thirties. How can this be addressed? What options are there for people who are considered "old" or too "young" by hiring managers and companies? Should they just give up and do nothing? The biggest issue, the one that is hard to address, is the universal perception that older workers are not as quick or adept as younger workers are and the younger workers are not experienced, na ve and always on 'don't know what to do' mode (Fleck 1). 
Age discrimination continues to damage our society, reducing both the incomes and the self-confidence of millions of Americans. However, there are counterarguments that claim why the nation should pay too much attention to this problem. To hire a employee, who is capable of bringing abundant profits later in the future, is the main goal of hiring managers in workplaces or companies. To achieve it, workplaces must choose people who are capable of keeping up with the work and doing the job that they are told to do without any problem. But the age should not be one of factors that workplaces must evaluate during job interviews. There are numerous workers who are either young or too old who are capable of doing the job that they are told to do instead of lagging behind others. For example, a bank hires a pretty, inexperienced young woman as a teller instead of an older woman with a strong background in similar jobs. In this case, the age should not be the factor that prevented the old woman from getting hired. It is how much experienced the woman is compared to other, which is most important. It is not that older workers are generally more experienced that workplaces should favor older workers much more than the younger one because the age does not determine whether the person had an similar experience in other workplaces before or not. So, it is erroneous for workplaces to judge the worker just by appearance or the age. They should hire the worker thinking whether this worker would be suitable for themselves or not. 
Age discrimination is sometimes allowed to continue because of long-held assumptions from workplaces that it is right and proper for older workers to move aside to make room for younger workers who need to support families, that older workers are less competent, and that there's no mileage in training them for new jobs. Surprisingly, however the unemployment rate for younger workers are much higher than that of older workers. There is nothing wrong to hire the younger workers because they have potentials of bringing the same amount of profits as current workers do. The 1967 Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) protects most workers 40 and older from discrimination in recruitment, hiring, training, promotion, pay, benefits, firing, layoffs, retirement and other employment practices. However, it should also protect the younger workers from those factors, too. 
Work Citation 
1. Fleck, Carole. "Job Ageism and Labor Law Disputes in the Workplace - AARP." AARP. N.p., May 2014. Web. 19 Nov. 2014. <http://www.aarp.org/work/on-the-job/info-2014/workplace-age-discrimination-infographic.html>. 
