Is it Unfair to Find an Internship for International Students? 
There are over ten million international students in the United States currently, but only a few stay after graduation and get a chance to work in the US. A main factor that leads to this is that international students have difficulties finding internships by themselves. Except the opportunities schools provide, students almost don't get an offer. Why is it so difficult for international students to apply for and get an internship? Is it just because international students don't have a good performance on academy and interviews or are there "some other reasons"? Does a kind of unfairness or discrimination truly exist in this society? Though many rumors are saying that international students are treated differently even unfairly, my research indicates that there's no unfairness which blocks the way of getting an internship for international students in the US. However, there are truly some reasons such as inhospitality of local people and government regulations that affect the internship application. 
Local people play an important role in this issue. According to Lee and Rice's research (2007), people within the American society have held unfriendly views upon international students since more and more students from the outside world start to learn and live in the US. There are more and more international students every year and the old ones have done something terrible which caused dissatisfaction of local people. For example, there was a Chinese boy speeding in California in spring this year. He drove so fast that the police has dispatched helicopters to try to chase this young man. Eventually after chasing for forty minutes the police got this man and arrested him. Things like this that international students breaking laws and doing against basic American moral standards are common today. The growing population and bad behaviors make people within the society really unhappy and a kind of discrimination is raising. Lee and Rice have done plenty of interviews about career opportunities and internships, trying to see whether there is inequality in career finding. The results show that most employers in the US tend to choose domestic students rather than internationals students when they are around the same academic level. Usually they think the domestic students have the similar moral and value standards, and it's easy to assign them with work while employers need to know what values international students have and to see how well they adapt to this society. Therefore the extra work makes employers tired, thinking they are wasting time and energy most of the time. Other interviewees did explain the reasons international students are not welcomed. While they come to America to learn and adapt to new culture, they bring their cultures here including some bad habits. Also, some people think because of the language barrier, many students don't talk to them. Even when they are asked questions, they sometimes avoid answering directly. The lack of communication and comprehension results in the inhospitality from local people. Although it seems that local American people are not friendly to international students sometimes, the unfairness truly does not exist. Lee and Rice finally concluded that international students may deal with more questions and need to prepare more on the problem of finding internships. It's logical that employers need to care more about international students since they don't want to invest for those won't benefit them. In another way, being evaluated in many different perspectives by employers indicates that they do take international students seriously. The fact is that it's really competitive for international students to get an internship not they are treated unfairly. Some bad things done by international students may change the thoughts local people have, but they don't value every international student as those. They just want to make sure the international applicants are not like those who have done bad things. 
Another reason that may cause the difficulty of finding an internship is that many international students choose to leave the United States after they finish the college life even though they have talked to some employers they would stay. Many international students tend to go back to their home countries to work and want to find an internship during studying abroad. The reason employers in the US hire international students as interns is that they are training them for the future where these students can become a full time employees. The companies are paying a lot and bearing responsibilities for the HB1 visa which is the typical visa international workers need. Since the HB1 working visa for international students is strictly controlled by the government, the companies must pay a lot to guarantee that students would work well in the states. They are not expected to see the efforts they have made on the international students finally bring them nothing. Therefore, as they are reviewing the applications of internships, they have many concerns. Simply speaking, the international students want to take all the benefits they can during the college life while the employers are not willing to pay for the cost which may not give them any result. In the past, many international students have lied to the employers saying they would stay to work after graduation just in order to get the internship. However, when they eventually graduated, they left. After they got experienced and trained, they went back to their home countries because they thought there was a huger market back at home. Things like this are pretty common. It is the decision students make that causes the hesitation of the companies. In my personal views, the history makes employers have to be careful and this cannot be viewed as unfair. Students themselves caused this result and the new ones should take responsibility to change this situation instead of blaming the biased American society. 
The last reason is politics. From the interview I have conducted with Mrs. Darshini Render, the career services consultant for international students at Center for Career Opportunities at Purdue University, I learned that politics is an essential role. Every government has the law and regulations on protecting citizens' working chances. There are many regulations on the working visa HB1 for international students. American government only issues a certain amount of this kind of visa every year thus it's competitive to get an HB1. Moreover, many companies with some new and advanced technology won't let international students take the job. They are afraid of losing their core technology thus losing their advantages and tons of money. The politics is all the same everywhere in the world, said Mrs. Render. The United States has the most international student population in the world while the government has to be strict with controlling the work opportunities. It is the same in many other countries as well. So in this way, it is not unfair for international students to get an internship. It's just that they need to work hard in order to be more competitive than those with the citizen rights. 
Rumors have been around saying that employers are holding many different and unfair attitudes upon international students. Many have said that employers are not willing to hire international students because employers think they have too many problems on language and their ability is not enough to finish the work. Especially some parents think their kids are not treated well. Actually theses are all wrong. They cannot get an internship mostly because of themselves. Employers won't refuse a person with perfect academic performance and high working abilities, will they? As long as they reject applications, that means you are not doing well enough. It is the working ability that decides whether you get the internship or not. Though employers are pretty important, the key is student themselves. 
In conclusion, the unfairness of getting internships for international students does not exist in the US. Some factors are external like politics and some are due to students themselves. International students need to focus more on improving their abilities instead of complaining the "unfairness". Since there is difficulty finding internships, I think both sides of students and employers should think and change some of their behaviors. International students should watch out their daily behaviors and keep a good grade and employers should also be more generous when considering international applications. I believe for international students the future is bright. 
