Changing Experience for Chinese Students 
Nowadays, a second large wave of studying abroad is currently underway in China. The number of Chinese international students in the United States keeps increasing, and Chinese students become the majority of international students in American universities. Therefore, many universities now in the United States have some mandatory courses for Chinese international students, which aims to help Chinese students with adjust to the life in the United States more easily. However, these courses should be optional to Chinese international students. 
First of all, the Chinese international students nowadays in the United States can adapt to the new life in colleges better and more easily than they did decades ago. Nowadays Chinese people know a lot about the lifestyles, cultures, and values in the United States by various way like watching American movies or communicating with Americans or Chinese people live in America. Chinese international students can know a lot about their future life in the American colleges, so they are prepared before they go to the United States. The policy change has most contribution to this situation. According to Dr. Daniel Chirot who is a sociology professor in the University of Washington, decades ago, before the "open the door" policy came up by Xiaoping Deng, Chinese people were banned from watch foreign movies and TV series. They knew little about the foreign life. However, after the policy was came out, people could gain many information directly from foreign countries, and people were curious about the United States, the most prosperous country. Therefore, many people in China, especially the young, are quite familiar with the American lifestyles and costumes. 
Second, Chinese students can know a lot about American lifestyles in their leisure time chatting with their friends who study abroad, and attending a course is a waste of time. The policy change resulted in economic growth. Studying abroad is costly, and nowadays more family can afford their children to study abroad. Some Chinese students went to the United States since middle school. Therefore the number of Chinese international students is increasing. Chinese people who do not study abroad may have several friends studying abroad, so they can know many foreign living habits and customs through the experience by their friends. Future and potential Chinese international students can also learn a lot by their elders, so they are somehow prepared when they arrive in the United States. 
Third, it is not wise to spend time on a course which students can get same knowledge in their leisure time. The development of technology allows people in different countries communicate directly through internet. Social networks like Facebook and Twitter, allows people show their opinions on same thing, which according to Dr. Daniel Chirot, is actually an exchange of values and perspectives. Moreover, many students already have a tight schedule and are busy with their homework. For those who already knew the American culture and costumes should not be forced to waste their time on this kind of course. 
We cannot deny that some Chinese students in the United States have difficulty to adjust the lifestyles. In order to help Chinese students, there are some compulsory curriculums offered by universities. It is a good starting point, but is not fair to some Chinese international students because they ignore the personal differences even among a same group. Even students from a single country have different language ability, acculturation status, and familiarity of American culture, and these differences can make a big difference in adjustment period as asserted by the authors in the 2012 study "Acculturative adjustment patterns among Chinese international students". The study also reveals that actually most Chinese international students can adjust the new life in the United States smoothly and easily nowadays. 
To sum up, the compulsory courses about culture transition offer to international students have good intension, but should consider the personal difference among international students. For some international students who have good language ability and know well about the culture, it is a waste of time and kind of distracting because they need more time to focus on other academic courses. Those courses may still needed by some international students, but should be optional to all international students. 
