INTRODUCTION 
	There are approximately 3. 3 million people in the United States with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), and most people think that OCD could be completely healed. Despite of the fact that OCD is not a rare disorder anymore, and that abundant research has been in progress, scientists have still not figured out the reason OCD occurs and the solution for it to be cured. A number of treatments for OCD patients are available. They are the following: cognitive therapy, exposure and response prevention, serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, talk therapy and pharmacotherapy. Some consider OCD as a psychological disorder so they think if patients with OCD are willing to be changed, it could be cured. On the other hand, the new research indicates that it is in fact genetic in origin with behavioral components. It is hard to get rid of OCD because of various reasons. I propose that OCD cannot be completely healed, because of three reasons: 1) Patients' symptoms could get worse after using medication due to its side effects; 2) Some patients are afraid of change; 3) There are not so many available resources for the patients about OCD. 
	Relying on medication such as serotonin to overcome patients' obsessive behaviors and minds could make the obsession get worse. According to Hannah Nichols, who writes about medical and health content for patient, health care professional, obstetrician, gynecologist and midwifery audiences in the specialist area of stem cell processing and research, "common OCD obsessions include contamination, losing control, perfectionism, harm, unwanted sexual thoughts, and religious obsessions" (2014). OCD could be extremely disabling, especially when it becomes time-consuming. So people desire to get rid of the disease as soon as possible by taking medication. Unfortunately, once they stop taking the medicine, they could get their symptoms back into their everyday lives, and their symptoms could be worse than before taking the medication. In addition, there may be side effects with the medicine itself. No specific medication can be prescribed because it varies according to people's body chemistry. Thus, it is not safe or secure enough for the patients to take the medication which does not guarantee to lessen their symptoms. 
OCD is often under-diagnosed and under-treated. Most people are so uncomfortable with discussing their symptoms that they lie about their status and eventually receive ineffective treatment. Some people suffering OCD hide their symptoms in fear of embarrassment. Signs that people around them may notice are hair-pulling, need to touch, excessive hand washing, ritualized eating behaviors and so on. However, it is definitely not easy to notice. So when the patients go to the doctor, they would very likely get under-diagnosed because "since there is no lab test or brain imaging test for OCD, the diagnosis is made by clinical assessment" (Charles, 2013). With the condition being under-diagnosed, the possibilities of enhancement would drastically decrease. 
Unfortunately, many cannot get treatments due to financial issues and lack of professionals in that field to help them. In addition, OCD is chronic. "It is a potential that could not be cured yet it could get under control" (Penzel, 2013). So patients definitely need a good source in order to get treatments; however, it seems that its field is not providing enough resources for them to give a hand. 
CONCLUSION 
	There are a number of variables that make treatments harder for OCD patients. Some people are afraid of change, cannot afford the treatment, feel uncomfortable with discussing their symptoms, have difficulties with diagnosis, get ineffective treatment, and so on. According to the OCD center, studies show that it may take 17 years for someone with OCD to get the correct diagnosis (2014). Some people might think that once the patients are diagnosed with OCD, they would be able to get rid of their disorder. However, there are various reasons that OCD is hard to be healed completely. The treatment will enhance all patients eventually; however, it actually is nearly impossible to recover perfectly. The therapies that are recommended would just help people "understand the guidelines of an anxiety disorder's overall game plan such as mental mechanisms, and to provide specific suggestions in the face of challenges" (Phillipson, 2014). People with OCD need to be handled with persistence and understanding. They need to get supported and treated the same way as everyone else does. 
