Meat and Fruits impact Teenagers Physical Growth 
Puberty is the most significant period of time in people's life, because teenager's physical and mental development occurs in adolescence. Teenagers not only become taller and heavier visibly in adolescence, but also their organs become stronger to support the body structure and transfer nutrition in body. Definitely, teenagers need a lot of nutrition for physical growth, but what kind of food can provide large amount of protein and mineral for physical growth? Fruits, with low fat, plenty of vitamin and much protein, bring more benefit for teenager's physical growth than meat. 
Dr. Weaver, as a interviewee, mentioned that plant fruits provide minerals and vitamins for all living tissue, because fruits almost contain all kinds of vitamin and mineral, like Vitamin C, Vitamin B, calcium and iron. Furthermore, those Vitamin and the majority of minerals are alkalinity substance which can neutralize acidity substance produced by meat. Surplus acidity substance makes teenagers feeling tired and easily to get insomnia, and cancer cell normally occurs in a organ which contain redundant acidity substance. Besides, fruits within low fat contains fiber, calcium and iron which induce the incidence of many disease, like heart disease and osteoporosis. Although it is not obvious of those benefit which fruits can bring to teenagers, it is not advisable to never eat fruits for teenagers. 
Fruits contain much mineral which not only provides essential nutrition for teenager physical growth, but also cure some disease. Anemia, the most prevalent deficiency among adolescence, would be diagnosed if teenagers intake low amount of iron. Carol N. Meredith and Johanna T. Dwyer found that between 11 ages to 14 ages, 4.1% boys and 2.8% girls have anemia, and 7.2% older adolescent girls have anemia. Teenagers are deficient in iron because of consuming few plant foods which have plenty of iron, on the other hand, rapid growth in puberty would increase iron needs for myoglobin and hemoglobin in red cell volume. Iron is plenty in a lot of plant fruits such as peaches and bananas, so teenagers are encouraged to consume those iron-rich fruits to get enough iron for physical growth. 
Vegetarian teenagers never eat meat, but they still can get enough nutrition for physical growth. How can they get benefit from fruits instead of meat? Reed Mangels, Ph.D, stated that vegetarian teenager normally consumes variety plant fruits to make them healthy. For get enough protein, vegetarian teenagers can eat beans, nuts and soy milk, because these foods contains high protein even more than meat. Vegetarian teenagers also need calcium to build their bones strengthening bone density. They often intake calcium from cow's milk, tofu and green leafy vegetable. Eating iron-rich fruits can prevent anemia, vegetarian teenagers also would consume citrus, because citrus contains much Vitamin C which can help teenagers to absorb iron from foods. So vegetarian can get protein, various Vitamin and mineral for physical growth. 
Meat is more important for teenager's physical growth, because meat contains high quality protein and fat which is reserved energy for physical growth. Although fruits cannot totally replace the nutrition role of meat, fruits indeed contain much Vitamin and minerals which meat has. Besides, meat contains acidity substance and surplus acidity substance would harm teenager's physical growth causing some disease. Teenagers in adolescence normally do not know how to balance their diet, so they might be eat more meat than fruits, which results in meat brings more negative affection instead of benefit to teenagers. 
Teenagers are encouraged to consume more fruits than meat, because those evidence shows a lot of benefit for teenager's physical growth. Although teenagers are very hard to see how fruits impacts the physical growth, teenagers absolutely can get enough nutrition from plant fruits. If more and more teenagers realize that plant fruits bring more benefit to their physical growth, the more plant fruits and the less meat teenagers would intake. Animals can be protected efficiently and the environment would be better. 
