Argumentative Essay Assignment Final Draft 
April 15, 2016 
Dawn of Lactose Intolerance 
According to United States National Library of Medicine (2016), about 65 percent of world population is lactose intolerant. Lactose intolerance means people have digestive symptoms when consuming dairy product (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, 2014). Since people with lactose intolerance are having discomfort after consuming dairy product, they tend to avoid consuming that again and this behavior will cause nutrient deficiency, especially calcium deficiency. For example, according to U.S Department of Health and human Service (2006), most teenagers, who are lactose intolerant, don't consume as much calcium as that is suggested. However, in my opinion, people with lactose intolerance should not be afraid of consuming lactose. The dawn of the day that people are able to overcome lactose intolerance is coming! 
The strategy of consuming a small amount of milk (8-12 ounces) with meal each day is developed to solve the lactose intolerance problem as it increases people digestive ability of lactose. Someone who considers that drinking milk would absolutely cause digestive discomfort, even with a small amount of milk, has doubted the validity of this strategy. I consider this opinion is prejudicial because it separates the strategy to two parts and only focuses on drinking milk part, regardless of another factor: with meal. As a matter of fact, according to Prof Savaiano, a professor in Nutrition Science Department of Purdue University, the ignored factor is especially significant in the strategy since if milk is consumed with meal, the digestion speed will be slowed and thus the lactose could be digested efficiently. The reason why people have discomfort when drinking milk only is that too much undigested milk rushes into intestine to cause digestive disorder. Therefore, as long as people drink a small amount of milk with meal and carefully follow the instruction, discomfort will disappear. 
Still, people may be confused about the increased digestive ability, because if the ability can be enhanced, it would have the possibility to decrease, which makes the strategy less reliable that only alleviate the problem temporarily. This situation indeed exists if people don't follow the strategy strictly. For example, a few people are not persistent. They at first drink milk for several days but then they stop drinking, so the reason why the strategy seems untrustworthy is that people fail to persist it. Prof Savaiano said ' if people stop consuming lactose, the improved ability of digesting lactose would eventually go down to the original value. Meanwhile, the extent of improvement is limited.' Therefore, this strategy is not a catholicon that can cure everything after taking only one time. It is a method that requires persistence to make it effective. 
However, this strategy may be protested by one who just detests milk and prefers other foods. He/she hates the smell and look of milk and he/she is also a maldigester of lactose, so avoiding drinking milk for this person makes sense. But for American diet, about three-fourths of total calcium intake is originated from dairy foods (Berdanier, Dwyer, & Feldman, 2008). If people choose to avoid drinking milk, there is a giant nutritional loss that is hard to compensate from other food. Interesting, even some people claim they hate drinking milk, when scientists put a tiny amount of milk into their diet and later ask them to evaluate milk again, people have better impression on milk. The experiment concludes that people maybe subjectively detest milk, but they can still accept it through objective stimulus and start to prefer it (according to the interview to Prof Savaiano). Hence, the strategy is still feasible to milk hater. 
To conclude, the strategy of consuming a small amount of milk everyday is effective, since three opposite opinions are disproved. Till now, lactose intolerance is still a serious problem around the world, so knowledge about lactose intolerance that helps for overcoming lactose intolerance must be dispersed. It is extremely easy to do so because the dissemination of information is unbelievable swift nowadays. For example, government can post the knowledge about lactose intolerance right on its Facebook and Twitter. Milk-producing company, such as Nestle, can hold a special activity for milk drinking each year to attract more people to focus on topic of lactose intolerance. Although lactose intolerance is being a trouble for a long time, it would not be a problem anymore in the future. The dawn of lactose intolerance is coming! 
