P5D3 Argumentative Paper 
May 2, 2015 
The Bigger Influence on Personality 
	When I was a child in primary school, I found that there were huge differences among students in personalities and the way they talked and behaved. It seemed that people tend to make different behaviors and responses according to their identical personalities. Even in the same situation like speaking in front of people, extrovert children could speak confidently at the first time, while introvert ones had to practice many times but still could not finish that work well. How can this big difference come? What factors play an important role in determining children's personality? There are two kinds of factors, congenital and postnatal. Congenital factors are present from birth, such as genes, while postnatal factors are related to the period of time after birth, like what people get or experience in their life. Based on the information and research, congenital factors play a much more important role than postnatal factors in the development of personality. 
	Research has shown that people do not greatly change their personality traits no matter which environment they are in. In 2003, Jeff Potter and his partners did a study about whether age affected people's personalities. They spread out games, quizzes and questionnaires on the website and got data from the public to determine whether age had influence on the Big Five personality traits, openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. After they measured the data, they found in the extraversion part that regardless of changes in environment, the extent of changing in personality traits kept decreasing as age grew and personality even stopped changing after age 30. Even people change their environment and gain different life experience, their personality traits change in an expected range. Thus, we can tell that people's personality traits are determined mostly by genes and changed slightly by the environment. Actually, when people grow up, they all tend to choose the comfortable environment and the friends that they enjoy staying with. What determine how people make these choices are genes, which form the personality and preference about others and the environment. 
	In addition, based on the article about twins done by Nick Collins 2012, "Genes play a greater role in determining key personality traits like social skills and learning ability than the way we are brought up by our parents". Since almost all twins grow in the same home environment but only identical twins share the same genetics, data about how personality traits differ between twins can provide enough information about whether genetic factors have greater influence than the environment. The researchers asked professional questions about how twins perceived themselves and others, like "are you influenced by people with strong opinions". The researchers then measured the answers from more than 800 sets of twins by well-established psychological scale and found out which group of personality traits the twins were in. The results showed that "identical twins were twice as likely as non-identical twins to share the same personality traits". We can conclude from the study that genetics exert more influence on people's personality traits. 
Furthermore, "Individuals who carry a specific genetic variant are more susceptible to depression when exposed to stressful life events than individuals who do not carry the genetic variant"Caspi et al., 2003. Thomas J. Bouchard did a survey to measure how greatly genes affected personality. Thomas made a table about the behavior genetic findings from the samples from affluent Western. According to the information he had in the table, "genetic influence is in the range of 40 to 50%, and heritability is approximately the same for different traits". Since genetic influence and heritability are both congenital factors and they account for about 80% of personality traits. Thus, how we behave and response to certain conditions are most influenced by what we were born with. 
Some people may think that friends, colleagues change their ways of behavior after something influential happened, like the death of families, or when they have to adapt to a new environment. According to <name>, however, "What matters is who you are, not where you are and what you have experienced". Due to the gene, all human beings have the tendency to make certain behaviors. Since we all have intelligence to learn a way to deal with the environment, we cannot simply tell whether the personality of a person changes merely from his/her behaviors. Changing behaviors of people is just the signal of doing things that are better for them rather than changing in their internal personalities. Sometimes introverts can behave just like extroverts after learning and making extra efforts. No matter introverts or extroverts, these are skills that almost every person has to learn to be successful in the society. People do change their behaviors according to the environment, but how can you determine whether their internal personalities have changed? 
As I have mentioned above genetics as congenial factors play a greater role than the environment as postnatal factors in determining people's personalities. It is not to say, however, that environment has no influence. Since personality is a complex topic, we cannot exclude any factors but consider both genetics and environment as important factors that determine people's personalities. However, genetics determine more than environment. Genetic factors even determine the way people prefer to respond to the environment and which environment they would like to stay. 
