P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 26, 2015 
Can Hydrogen Fuel Replace Fossil Fuel? 
		Alternative energy, the two words that many of us had seen and heard as we approach the second decade of this new millennium. The ever-growing population on this earth means that the usage of available sources of energy mainly fossil fuels has been increasing. However, the reliance on energy from fossil fuels can harm our environment through many side effects by polluting the air that can threaten the health of human, the emission of carbon dioxide that can increase the chances of global warming, and the geopolitical tensions arising from the non- uniform distribution of fossil resources throughout the world (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Therefore, this is where alternative energy comes to mind. One of the promising alternatives is hydrogen fuel. Thus, in order to overcome the problem concerning the usage of fossil fuel, hydrogen fuel should be used to replace fossil fuels. 
Hydrogen fuel is a fuel made up of pure hydrogen in a liquid form. The common way to use it is in a fuel cell system. This is because most of the automobile companies are testing the fuel cell engine system in their test cars. The hydrogen fuel will react with oxygen in an electrolyte to produce electrical energy. Fuel cells have strong benefits over conventional combustion-based technologies currently used in vehicles. If pure hydrogen is used as a fuel, the only by-products are heat and water (Haugen & Cothran, 2006). Thus, using hydrogen fuel would greatly increase the air quality of our atmosphere as it does not releases any harmful greenhouse gases mainly carbon dioxide (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Based on a measured data, 1000 kilowatt-hours of electricity produced in a stationary fuel cell power create no more than an ounce of pollution. On the other hand, the equivalent amount of electricity produced by conventional combusting generating technologies will emit 25 pounds of pollutants (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). This will decrease the amount of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere for up to 2 million kg per year, thus provide a clean and healthy environment. 
		Hydrogen fuel also can produce more energy compared to a common fossil fuel. Hydrogen fuel is a very efficient fuel source compared to the traditional petroleum based source energy. A common fuel cell can produce electricity that would be used for fuel cell cars. It produces electricity that has a potential efficiency of 60% (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). In comparison, the common type of petroleum based fuel that is gasoline that is used in gasoline engines can only operate with about 25% efficiency. It is widely used only to produce motion such as moving some type of transportation vehicle (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Hydrogen fuel cell has a higher energy density per unit mass than gasoline does. Statistically, according to the analysis of results from the first two years of the U.S. Department of Energy's fuel cell learning demonstration based on a fleet of 77 fuel cell vehicles showed that fuel cell efficiency at one-quarter power as tested on a dynamometer reached 52.2-58.1%, close to the target efficiency of 60% (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Moreover, hydrogen fuel cell vehicles use electric motor in which they use up to 40-60% of the fuel's energy. This would correspond to more than a 50% reduction in fuel consumption as compared to gasoline fuel vehicle. 
		The problem with using hydrogen fuel is the way of obtaining the fuel itself. For hydrogen to be used as a fuel, it needs to be extracted first from the compounds that contain hydrogen so that it can be isolated into the form of independent molecules. The extraction process needs a certain application for a certain level of purity (Sorensen, 2005). The most common way of obtaining hydrogen fuel is by using the gasification method, where natural gas and steam are reacted to produce hydrogen. The amount of carbon footprint from the reaction to produce hydrogen fuel is concerning. Even so, there are a lot of alternatives in producing hydrogen. One of the alternatives is to split water using electricity. This process basically splits water into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it. It does not involve any natural gas, and have virtually zero emission of pollution if the source of electricity is from a renewable source like wind turbine or geothermal (U.S. Department of Energy: Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy). 
Storing hydrogen can be cumbersome as compared to storing petroleum. As of today, the technology for storing hydrogen is only limited to compressed gas and liquefaction (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Both the storage medium is used in demonstration vehicles right now from companies like Honda with their Honda FCX Clarity, and Toyota with its FCV Concept car. The highest practical pressure of for a compressed gas is at 10,000 psi. Even then, it is still a bulky way to store hydrogen because it requires a significant amount of trunk space (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Fortunately, since the efficiency of using hydrogen fuel is higher than fossil fuel, hydrogen fuel car would need much less fuel to travel greater distances than cars powered by gasoline would be able to. 
		In a nutshell, the exploitation of fossil fuels as an energy source is reaching its limit due to the vast development of transportation. The amount of pollutants in this world can only be increase if nothing is done towards the air pollution caused by the usage of fossil fuel. Therefore, hydrogen fuel has the promising factor to be the alternative towards fossil fuel. This is because of the hydrogen fuel ability only to produce non-toxic by-product when it is used. It also can produce a lot more energy per amount of the fuel compared to the petroleum that is globally used. If hydrogen can replace fossil fuel as the leading fuel, the world would be cleaner and greener. 
