Should People Trust Nuclear Energy 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
Past accident that happened in Chernobyl, Ukraine, Three Mile Island, and the most recent accident that happened in Fukushima made people wonder if they should trust nuclear energy. It is important to discuss if people should continue trusting nuclear energy, because we need sufficient amount of energy urgently, safely, and neatly. Throughout my research, evidences prove that nuclear energy could be trusted by mainly good safety records and minimized human error possibilities. 
Should People Trust Nuclear Energy 
	In the twenty first century, the shortage of fossil fuel energy is becoming more and more serious and clear. People and scientists are seeking new energy resources to ensure people can continue living on this planet with sufficient energy; nuclear energy is one of the most common and practical new energy that can produce enough electricity with reasonable occupation of land. But the past accident that happened in Chernobyl, Ukraine, Three Mile Island, and the most recent accident that happened in Fukushima made people wonder if they should trust nuclear energy. Some people seem to be afraid of nuclear energy by the impacts of those three accidents. However, the major conflict is that some people afraid nuclear energy but want to have better environment while nuclear energy is the only practical solution at this time. Therefore, it is important to discuss if people should continue trusting nuclear energy, because we need sufficient amount of energy urgently, safely, and neatly. Throughout my research, evidences prove that nuclear energy could be trusted by mainly good safety records and minimized human error possibilities. 
	Some peoples' fear over nuclear energy are most likely from the three nuclear accidents. The Three Mile Island accident was caused by avoidable design defects and uncomprehensive training, and finally caused reactor melt down. According to WNA (2012) that "The operators were unable to diagnose or respond properly to the unplanned automatic shutdown of the reactor. Deficient control room instrumentation and inadequate emergency response training proved to be root causes of the accident (Three Mile Island Accident, 2012)." Although there was no major damage or injury, but residents were scared. WNA (2012) suggests that there were no injuries or death resulted in this accident, but people began to feel 'uncomfortable' with nuclear energy (Three Mile Island Accident, 2012). United States Nuclear Commission (2013) also believes that the influence of Three Miles Nuclear accidenti affected the whole industry of nuclear energy. (Backgrounder on the Three Mile Island Accident, 2013). Chernobyl Nuclear accident had the most serious consequences ever. The WHO (2005) report shows that around 4000 people were killed within 20 years by the damage of radioactive (Chernobyl: the true scale of the accident, 2015). The major trigger of this accident was human mistakes as well. This accident was triggered by human error as well. WNA (2015) report that the accident was triggered by two stuffs that were not well-trained operate the reactor with defect that was not mentioned in operation procedures (Chernobyl Accident 1986, 2015). Besides that, WNA (2015) suggests that Russian reactor did not have containment, which could not prevent potential leak (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors). The huge amount of death have affected some peoples' opinions towards nuclear energy became more and more negative. The Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan is the most recent nuclear accident in 2011. WNA (2015) suggests those disabilities were caused by the lack of emergency operation experiences and an incomplete manual. Also, the culture of Japan made them not willing to question authorities and powerful side, and obey the authorities with no principles make the regulation become a difficulty (Fukushima Accident, 2015). Fukushima accident also made some people lose trust over their regulation authorities again. 
	Those accidents were truly scare; however, the truth is that nuclear energy had a good record throughout the safety records of nuclear energy. WNA (2015) suggest that the three accidents mentioned before were the only three accident, Chernobyl accident was the only one caused serious consequences (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors, 2015). Moreover, according to WNA (2015), "16,000 cumulative reactor-years of commercial nuclear power operation in 33 countries" (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors, 2015). Although the impacts of disasters could be tremendous, but people should not lose trust on nuclear energy due to three accidents within 16,000 cumulative reactor-years. 
	Prof. <name> who is an assistant professor at the <department name> of Purdue University pointed out that people tend to be afraid of things that they don't understand, and nuclear energy is just one of those things problems. Due to this reason, media also tend to make nuclear energy looks dangerous either because they don't understand this field or because they have to make news look serious so that more people would watch their program; as a result, fear would be separate around people and make people feel afraid (Personal communication, Nov 2, 2015). 
	Although the safety records are satisfactory, engineers are still keeping improving the system. After Three Mile Island accident, United States Nuclear Commission (2013) issued numerous changes to ensure the safety of nuclear energy; the major changes were improving the design and equipment standard to ensure the isolations, clarifying the human responsibilities by strengthening training, improving the emergency preparations, and strengthening the regulations (Backgrounder on the Three Mile Island Accident, 2013). After Chernobyl accident; according to WNA (2015), those Russian made reactors are all closed to ensure the safety because they did not have containments (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors). Also, point to Fukushima, World Nuclear Association (2015) suggests that sea-walls are well built for those nuclear reactors close to the sea, and other countries have less possibilities to have a tsunami as serious as japan (Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors, 2015). And those countries are less likely have disabled regulations like Japan. Therefore, the risks could be controlled with will managed and rigorous operations. People should trust nuclear engineers' technologies, which they have ensured 16,000 reactor-yeas operations. Scientist has designed better system; operators has received more comprehensive training. People could rest their fear. 
	Moreover, people should not just reject nuclear energy because nuclear energy is the most practical high efficiency clean energy over other clean energies; reject nuclear energy would cause energy shortage and economic issues. According to the WNA, after the Fukushima nuclear accident, the result of the polling about the public opinions of nuclear energy shows that about 90% of people oppose the development of nuclear energy; therefore, German is shutting down nuclear power plants due to the wide protest on nuclear power; the half of the electricity in German is now powered by fossil fuel (Nuclear Power in Germany, 2015). WNA suggest that the cost for German to replace nuclear energy by other new energy would be extremely high about 1000 billion, moreover, the new energy that is planning to be replaced would not be as efficient as nuclear energy (Nuclear Power in Germany, 2015). Prof. <name> suggests that "German had to import electricity from other countries to ensure the electricity usage; ironically, the electricity they imported was generated by nuclear energy" (Personal communication, Nov 2, 2015). Therefore, people should not reject nuclear energy just because the fear of not understanding nuclear energy. 
	Since nuclear waste takes a long term to decay. Some people are concerning if nuclear waste could be handled safely. An anti-nuclear NGO Nuclear Information and Resource Service (n.d.) said that "Every nuclear power reactor makes massive amounts of radioactive waste. Nuclear power's waste is deadly, it causes cancer and genetic mutations, and there is no known way to permanently contain, dispose or neutralize it. All claims to the contrary are unfounded" (Nuclear Information and Resource Service, n.d.). However, according to the World Nuclear Association (2015), the most common methods of processing nuclear waste are burying sealed containers deeply at stable geological areas, sinking sealed containers in deep seabed, and keeping sealed waste in special laboratories; all the locations of disposing nuclear waste would under the regulation domestically such as NRC or internationally such as International Atomic Energy Agency (World Nuclear Association, 2015). Moreover, the World Nuclear Association indicates that all the nuclear waste would be pre-processed before sealing; although the nuclear waste would take 9,000 to 300,000 years to decade to normal radioactive mining level, but the locations of disposing are normally far away from human area and definitely proved by regulations, therefore, it is not necessary to concern the safety of dealing with nuclear waste (World Nuclear Association, 2015). 
	Based on the research, the risk of having accident could be minimized. As the world is having more and more environmental issues, reject nuclear energy would not help the world to recover its environment since there isn't any new energy as reliable as, and as practical as nuclear energy. Although Prof. <name> said that engineers could not eliminate the risks since there would be situations that system could not deal with, human must be operating the system no matter how well the system is designed; however, comprehensive training and well-designed system could minimize the risks (Personal communication, Nov, 2). The media should do their research before reporting professional topics such as nuclear energy, since nowadays people are usually getting information by media; report with misunderstanding or selling strategy would only make people to have more fear over something they should trust. People who are not trusting nuclear energy could also find out some knowledge from academic paper and try to understand this technology, except those people who are pretending to sleep. In conclusion, people should trust nuclear energy as it has a good safety record within long term with minimized risk by modern technologies. 	 
