International students' homesickness problems should be deled with carefully 
Many people feel that homesickness is a childish problem. They think people do not need to pay attention to it, homesickness will leave by itself. 	It is a kind of natural emotion. In my point of view, it is true that homesickness is a natural emotion. However, we should take good care of those people who have got a homesickness and could not cover by themselves. 
First of all, I think homesickness should be understood correctly. Homesickness is not a thing that children use to show their parents they need love. Even adults will have homesickness sometime. For example, the footballer, Jesus Navas, who tried his best to get a better career, always be defatted by the homesickness. A number of adults are affected by the homesickness, and homesickness is common among the students but also in adults. In psychology field, homesickness is defined as"distress and functional impairment caused by an actual or anticipated separation from home and attachments to objects such as parents." We can see that, homesickness actually is a kind of psychological barrier that everybody may have one day. Do not think homesickness is a kind of embracing emotion, and thinking homesickness as a childish thing will be the totally wrong thing for people. Understand homesickness correctly, not only can help people find a suitable way to help themselves when they need to face the homesickness one day in the future, but also can let people understand other homesick people's pain more deeply. This is a kind of empathy, a kind of putting one's on heart on to the other's side. 
Secondly, homesickness will deeply affect one's common life. The homesickness will bring a lot of negative emotions like anxiety, loneness, and stresses. Homesickness isn't childish at all, when we leave a place we familiar with we all will get a feeling of unhappiness, this is what we called homesickness. In my interview with the resident assistant of First Street Tower, Mr. Yang told me that homesickness can completely destroy someone's life and make them not motivated to do any work. They can be sad and feel lost. People who got homesickness may have issues that they cannot take care of because of the new place and further sink into the feeling of missing home. They may spend all of their time talking to their parents or friends back home rather than going out and making new friends. This will be a terrible fact if these things really happened to a person. With the great pressure from the academic life, I believe the feeling of "life is so hard" can easily destroy one's mental strength. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to take care of those people who have homesickness. 
Maybe, some people will feel it is redundant to treat homesickness so seriously. Homesickness is just a little psychological problem, everyone can cover it by themselves. I want to say, it is true that some people can cover homesickness easily like myself, but we still need a right way to deal with it. I cannot imagine what a world without the warmth provided by others is like. 
Finally, I believe homesickness need to be treated with heart. When we have got a feeling of homesickness all we want is someone come and comfort us. And also, this is what other people who got homesickness wish to get. In my interview, Mr. Yang provided several very useful ways to cover homesickness. We should go out and get involved. I believe once you start making friends and seeing the place you are in as a second home, it becomes much better. For example, I was in serious homesick when I first get into college, but once I decided to go out and get involved and make friends, Purdue became my new home. 
At the end of everything, homesickness is a natural emotion that everybody may need to face some day in his or her life. Learn to treat with homesickness correctly, will be very helpful in the future one day. 
