Assignment 4, Draft 3 
04/23/2016	 
Germline Engineering: Embryo Editing 
In 2015, a group of scientist from China published an online journal, Protein & Cell (Puping et. al, 2015) which proved the world that experiments involving the human embryo are currently being conducted. This sparked an uproar of debates between scientists and ethicists regarding the implications of such experiments. With the newly invented technology, CRISPR-Cas9, the prospect of using human embryos in experiments seems promising in the future as scientists are able to cut and splice genes at specific regions of the DNA molecule easily. This system uses an enzyme that can be programmed to modify the targeted genetic material when inserted into a cell, thus changing the cell's characteristics (Regalado, 2015). Hence, the advent of this technology on gene editing, specifically, germline engineering, allows the possibility of having babies without the inherited disease. However, this event seems controversial because genetic changes to embryos are heritable and could have an unpredictable effect on future generations. It is seen as a slippery slope towards unsafe, unethical or non-medical uses of the technique (Cyranoski & Reardon, 2015). Even so, I strongly concur with the fact that human embryos should be permitted in germline engineering as it can potentially fix genetic diseases and increase our understanding of the human genome (complete set of gene sequences for humans). Thus, germline engineering is asserted to be beneficial than harmful to mankind. 
According to the experiment carried out by Chinese scientists at Sun Yat-sen University (Puping et. al, 2015), it is proven that editing human embryos can bring us closer to correcting genetic diseases in the future. The team had successfully cleaved the endogenous -globin gene (the gene that contributes to thalassemia- a genetic disease) using the CRISPR-Cas9 technology with 71 embryos that survived from the 86 that was tested. This promising experimental result strengthens the argument that human embryos should be permitted in germline engineering as they allow scientists to better understand the implications of the modifications made. Nonetheless, most people still believe that using other organisms is more preferred than using human embryos. This notion is reflected in a journal by Nature Biotechnology (2015), whereby Katrine Bosley from Cambridge University reviewed that technical feasibility is never the only consideration in doing experiments. Other non-technical factors (external factors that do not interfere with experimental results) such as safety, ethical and environmental concerns should also be taken into consideration regardless how well the experiment worked if human embryos were used. It is definitely possible to use animal embryos, however, they will not come close to the level of similarity in terms of their gene sequences when compared to human embryos. This can be supported from an interview with <name> , a biological science graduate from <place> . She mentioned that since the aim of this particular experiment was to help find a cure for human beings, it would not be feasible to use the systems of animals or other organisms. She also acknowledged that working on non-viable human embryos on the other hand, was the closest genetic system that we can use to study genetics in humans. 
Furthermore into this deliberation, it is viable to propose that perhaps using other ways of fixing genetic diseases that do not require the modification of the human genome will be more likely because editing genes from its natural state can interfere with the human germline. In an article in the Huff Post (Gebreyes, 2015), Darnovsky, an American policy advocate on politics of human biotechnology, mentioned that using gene editing on human embryos is not a medical approach, but a way to create new human beings. However, there seems to be a paradox in this claim for a number of reasons. It might be insensible to deduce that people cannot choose how they are going to have their children by saying that gene editing creates new human beings. This is because people should have the freedom to decide how they would like to reproduce since this is also human rights in general. In addition, germline engineering can be regarded as a logical extension of IVF, which stands for in-vitro fertilization that allows parents to choose what characteristics their babies will have as donor sperms and ovum can be selected from other people. When Louise May Brown, the first test tube baby, was born on 25 July 1975 (Rosenberg, 2016), the public was concerned about the permissibility of such an act but now, society generally accepts the concept of IVF. Similarly, when editing human embryos in germline engineering progresses and is proven to help patients, the societal norms can be gradually changed. 
On the other hand, editing human embryos in germline engineering is projected as a way to decrease genetic diversity if the human germline can be controlled. To an extent, this proposition is probable as it can lead eugenics, that is, beliefs and practices that aims to improve the genetic quality of the human population. If people have the freedom to choose how their babies will look like, such as choosing eye color and intelligence, diversity can potentially be reduced. This is because people might want to have the ideal beauty that are portrayed by the media, like what the perfect skin color or body size should be, for example. As logical as this claim sounds, it cannot be fully agreed upon as the human genome itself is constantly changing based on various external factors. Stated in Article 3 of Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights (1997) under Section A of human dignity and the human genome, "the human genome, which by its nature evolves, is subject to mutations. It contains potentialities that are expressed differently according to each individual's natural and social environment, including the individual's state of health, living conditions, nutrition and education." Based on this article, it is universally accepted that the human germline is not placed into a certain boundary in which it cannot be subjected to change. Therefore, even when germline engineering is progressed and made available, there is little chance that there will be reduced genetic diversity. Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard University proposed in an article that heritable psychological traits, such as intelligence and personality, are the product of hundreds or thousands of genes, each with a tiny effect (Skerrett, 2015). Even when the embryo is edited to make characteristic enhancements, it is unlikely that every modification results in the desired traits. Hence, this invigorates the argument that genetic diversity is decreased if germline engineering is used to control the human germline. 
Given these points, it can be logically claimed that embryo editing in germline engineering should be permitted as it can increase our understanding of the human genome and can potentially allow us to fix genetic diseases. This assertion can be endorsed by the promising experimental result done by the Chinese scientists (Puping et. al, 2015). Although editing human embryos in germline engineering is still at its preliminary stages, its potential benefit of preventing genetic diseases outweighs the concerns that govern the society. Certainly, it is expected that germline engineering would be opposed as it goes against societal norms but ultimately, these norms can gradually change when this technology progresses and can be proven to improve life conditions. As mentioned by Debra Matthews from Johns Hopkins (2015), fears inspired by science fiction often get all the attention in popular culture, while the very real potential benefits or risks of genetic research go unexplored and undiscussed. Thus, in order for the society to accept this technology and gain its potential benefits, it is paramount for us to consider the justifications of allowing human embryo editing in germline engineering, like the few that were mentioned in this paper. 
