Predictive Factors of Procrastination 
The phenomenon of procrastination has existed for much of history and continues to thrive in the modern day. According to study done by Ellis and Knaus in 1977, 80 to 95% of college students have admitted to procrastinating while 50% of college students chronically procrastinate as Day et al. researched in 2000. In addition, in 1996 J. Harriott and Ferrari found that 15 to 20% of adults are also chronically procrastinating. Although it is certain that procrastination will bring many negative effects to academic success, including increased stress, lower grades and so on, students still engage into it. Most of the experts hold the view that procrastination will be caused by various reasons such as low emotional intelligence, fear of failure and self-efficacy for self-regulation. But self-efficacy for self-regulation is the most predictive factor of procrastination. Self-regulation is the capability of someone to control his or her behavior, both stop doing something and start doing something. And self-efficacy for self-regulation reflects how the individual implements his ability into his or her academic performance. 
Self-efficacy for self-regulation is the key factor that contributes to procrastination. The definition of procrastination is an avoidance of an action or a task. Sometimes the action or task is avoided intentionally, but other times it is subconsciously done. And self-regulation serves as the most important way to discipline ourselves. For example, it is common for us to meet problems or challenges and those tasks which are too difficult for us to finish may cause procrastinating behavior. Students may use some other things to do when they want to procrastinate. Sometimes, these activities can be some "escape" activities such as napping, social media websites, video games, hanging out with friends or snacking. Other times, the activities can be some other things which students still view as productive activity such as doing cleaning or doing another task which has lower deadline. But when we intend to give up, it is our self-regulation that forces us to forward. However, most of students are aware of their procrastinating behavior and the negative effects of procrastination, but they still procrastinate. This phenomenon reflects that students do have the ability to regulate themselves but they choose not to do so. And self-efficacy for self-regulation reflects how students use their ability on self-regulation to force them stop procrastinating behavior when they procrastinate or tend to procrastinating. 
Self-efficacy for self-regulation includes emotional intelligence which is a predictive factor to procrastination. According to the definition of self-regulation, it has two aspects, social emotional domain and cognitive behavior such as remembering and paying attention. In other words, self-regulation is not just students having beliefs in their ability of finishing their school works using a variety of learning sources and strategies or resisting distractions. It also includes taking control of their emotions, such as pressure, anger, anxiety and other stress-related reactions. For instance, student who has the ability to handle the issues even under great pressure is able to control the feelings of anxiety and fear; he or she can make control of their feelings and use the efficient and effective way to make him or her clam down so that he or she can figure out the problem with a clear mind. Emotional intelligence (EQ), an individual's ability to understand, feel, administer, and guide his or her own or others' emotions (Goleman, 1999) is an essential part of aspect to reflect someone's ability of self-regulation; it not only shows the ability of making sense of feelings but also lead the feelings to the right direct which will have little effect on daily life and study. Most of experts hold the view that emotional intelligence (EQ) has a significant effect on procrastination. As the research done by M. Engin Deniz, Zeliba Tras and Didem Aydogan in 2009, the emotional intelligence which includes adaptation, coping with stress, interpersonal and general mood has a strong effect on procrastination. According to study, it seems that students who have the ability to deal with stress due to challenges and problems will not procrastinate for they have the courage to overcome those obstacles. Besides, general mood is closely related to optimism as "Optimistic individuals are happy, moderate, and extravert" (Vara, 1999). Researchers find that there was a positive correlation between anxiety and procrastination as anxiety increases the tendency of procrastination increases as well. Meanwhile, people who have a problem with interpersonal skills are more likely to procrastinating building relationships with others as procrastinators will always find excuses to prove them right. However, this study ignores the relationship between the emotional intelligence and self-efficacy for self-regulation. All the emotions that individuals have when they face challenges and problems need to be overcome by self-regulation, such as the ability of calming down when you feel angry or anxious. On the one hand, emotional intelligence is a significantly predictive factor to procrastination. On the other hand, it reflects the influence of self-efficacy for self-regulation to procrastination. 
Self efficacy for self-regulation can also influence the effect of other factors to procrastination. Apart from emotional intelligence, other experts put up the idea that other factors such as academic self-efficacy and self-esteem strongly affect academic procrastination. Academic self-efficacy reflects the confidence of students to complete their work and for some students who always pursue perfect in their work may incline to procrastinate for they fear of failure. Besides, procrastination has been regarded as self-protective way to protect low self-esteem. But according to Robert M. Klassen, Lindsey L. Krawchuk and Sukaina Rajani, the most predictive factor to procrastination is self-efficacy for self-regulation. They found that GPA accounted for a modest but significant amount of procrastination variance using the Hierarchical multiple regression. Then when entering self-regulation, self-efficacy, and self-esteem, the results show that there is a significant increase in the amount of explained variance. Self-regulation and self-esteem remained significant individual predictors of procrastination whereas GPA and academic self-efficacy were not significant individual predictors of procrastination. Thus, the authors conclude that the most predictive factor to procrastination is self-efficacy for self-regulation. 
	As a conclusion, self-efficacy for self-regulation is the most predictive factor to procrastination. The factors such as emotional intelligence reflect the ability of self-regulation or as academic self-efficacy, won't affect procrastination when self-regulation is taken into considering. Self-efficacy for self-regulation is the root factor to procrastination. But self-efficacy for self-regulation is the internal factor to procrastination; it is also important for us to consider the external factor such as socioeconomic status (SES), satisfaction with school life. If both internal and external factors are taken into considering, it is easy for us to get the big picture of procrastination so that we can figure out how to solve the problem in a more efficient way. 
