Fast Food Has Been Accepted by Most People 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
The fast food has been developed and popular for decades that generates its own culture and spread it worldwide. More than just food option, fast food is affecting people from daily life to social and economic development. Most people consider fast food and this industry in a positive acceptance. However, some people consider it to blame for some serious diseases and fast-food chains also face with problems on food safety. This text would demonstrate that fast food has been accepted by most people from several aspects. Some expectation for improvement would also be discussed. 
Key Words: Fast Food Industry; Food Culture; Market Economy; Healthy Food. 
Fast Food Has Been Accepted by Most People 
Introduction 
Fast food, from the literal sense, is the concept of the food that can be served quickly and often easily packaged for take-away. As people getting on the fast track of life, they get used to have fast food. There's a tremendously strong market for fast food. In general, fast food is very convenient for people with busy lifestyles and fast-food business develops a strong marketing to make it more popular. 
Furthermore, not just the options of food, fast food has been recognized as a popular food culture and spread around the world. For example, burgers and pizza are the best-known fast food category in the US. As a matter of fact, it's a quite substantive and direct way of cultural exportation and most people accept it. 
Fast food is the of the most common food options when dining out these days. More importantly, it's far more than the food option. Most people accept fast food as part of their daily life and the symbols of cultures that varies in different regions as well. Fast food industry has been in great expansion and promoted economic growth. Although some people refuse to have fast food out of healthy concerns, in general, most people would still accept fast food. 
As for social and economic development, fast food has great influence among most people. The site selections of fast food are always located in or near malls, supermarkets and funfairs, which makes people's daily life more convenient. The fast food industry has created numerous jobs and great market value, which is beneficial to economic development. Although people are changing their fast-pace lifestyles into healthier ones, many would remain in favor of fast food. Customers expect healthier choices, and fast food business are making improvements. Overall, improved fast food would still be accepted by most people. 
Fast Food: A Modern Lifestyle 
In my opinion, with the pace of modern life quickening, people seek for a quick and productive way of daily life, who can easily get satisfied to have fast food. Usually, it only takes a couple minutes to get the order at the fast-food restaurants. Besides, fast food has various options with all kinds of flavors to satisfy customers' discerning taste. 
As for the site selection, fast food restaurants often locate in or near malls, supermarkets and funfairs. And fast food has become a popular choice while people are hanging out, especially among teens and families with children. In general, people get used to fast food in their daily life and accept it as part of the fast-pace modern lifestyle. 
The Popular Culture of Fast Food 
Another reason why people accept fast food is that the pattern of food supply can date from Ancient Rome, and has developed rapidly over the past 60 years. As automobiles became popular after World War I, "Walter Anderson had built the first White Castle restaurant, generally credited with opening the second fast food outlet and first hamburger chain" National Public Radio 2002 
Fast food has different versions with growing popularity in common worldwide. And this is substantive and direct way of cultural exportation. For example, Japanese sushi has been increasingly popular and people get to know tatami and "Omurice", together with Japanese culture. As in UK, conventional fast food used to be renowned for fish and chip, and food from other culture also has been adopted. People accept fast food as a kind of popular food culture and always connect the food with cultural background in different states and countries. 
Business Success: Fast-food Industry and Chains 
The fast-food-industry can keep the price inexpensive to attract more customers. And they target teens and children and family as their main customer groups and spend billions on advertising to make fast food more popular. There are many instances of successful business marketing. Fast-food restaurants often offer regular flavors with the occasional "limited time" ones and the giveaways of limited edition. For example, Mc Donalds always launches kids' meals with fancy toys to attract children and their parents as well. (Allegretto, Jacobs, Doussard, Graham-Squire, Dan, & Thompson, 2013) 
Fast food overall has seen strong growth every year since 2009. And it's reported that fast food is expected to record a value CAGR of 3% at constant 2014 prices in the forecast period, to reach sales of US$246. 6 billion in 2019. (Country Report: Fast Food in the US from Euromonitor International) The success of the fast food business reflects that people widely accept fast food as part of their life. 
Opposition: Fast Food Affects Health 
Despite fast food being increasingly popular, there are still many people who blame some healthy problems like obesity on it. There's an article that reviews on the relationship among fast food, energy and obesity to find out whether fast foods are linked to the epidemic of obesity. The research finding suggests that the food with high energy density would down-regulate our ability to maintain energy balance, which is called "passive over-consumption". And this disturbance would gradually lead to weight gaining. According to the composition data, most of fast foods have an extremely high energy density. Therefore, the high energy density of fast food would disorder appetite control systems of human bodies, and hence to cause obesity. (Prentice, & Jebb) As news reported, Taco bell, one of the most famous fast-food companies, once put an emergency recall for microbiological contamination with E. coli. However, as for food safety, the bad events would persist and affect the way people perceive fast food. 
A research group found out that food contains excessive industrially produced trans-fatty acids, the high intake of which is quite relating to the risk of obesity and may gradually leading to other serious conditions. From those perspectives, some people stop eating fast food for health. The other part of people may turn fast food down because they want to support local restaurants instead of big fast-food corporations. 
Rebutting: Fast Food with Healthy Offerings 
However, it would be improvable for fast-food chains to reduce portions to normal sizes and eliminate industrially produced trans-fat, and offer food menus with reliable nutritional labeling as well. (Stender, Dyerberg, & Astrup, 2007) And one way for fast food restaurants to help reduce obesity is some customer surveys show that people visit fast food restaurants a little less and tend to eat at fast-casual restaurants. (Consumer Reports magazine: August 2011) This indicates that speed is still an important factor, but people tend to consider health factor when choose food. There are various substitutions to get a healthy diet, like changing for low-fat sauce. Offering food menus with reliable nutritional labelling, especially in calories, can also help customers know what they can get. In regard of customer demand, many fast food companies have responded with healthier offerings and improved services. 
As for food safety, good streamlines, qualifications of employees and food processing are the basic assurance of food safety, essentially. Fast-food companies should have strict safety control on primary food ingredients and food processing. Overall, fast-food business does have issues on food safety but so far with few outbreaks yet. Moreover, there are public displays of fast-food chains to show people every steps of how fast food is made. It's convincing for the guarantee of food safety. 
Conclusion 
Based on the successful business model and its own advantages, fast food has been very popular and accepted by most people worldwide. More than food option, it's also recognized as a food culture and also has been affecting people from daily life to social and economic development. Although faced with many problems at the same time, most people still choose fast food in acceptance and expect changes for the better. The companies are supposed to make a rebalance towards a healthier diet. In conclusion, although fast food has several aspects to be improved, people are still widely accepting fast food and expecting changes for the better. 
Reference 
Allegretto, S., Jacobs, K., Doussard, M., Graham-Squire, D., Dan, T., & Thompson, J. (2013). Fast food, poverty wages: the public cost of low-wage jobs in the fast-food industry. Center for Labor Research & Education University of California Berkeley. 
An, R., & Liu, J. (2015). Fast-food and full-service restaurant consumption in relation to daily energy and nutrient intakes among us adult cancer survivors, 2003-2012. Nutrition & Health. 
Anonymous. (2011). Consumer Reports magazine: August 2011. (August). 
Anonymous. (2015). Country Report: Fast Food in the US. Euromonitor International (October). 
Bowman, S. A., Gortmaker, S. L., Ebbeling, C. B., Pereira, M. A., & Ludwig, D. S. (2004). Effects of fast-food consumption on energy intake and diet quality among children in a national household survey. Pediatrics, 113(1), 112-118. 
National Public Radio (2002). "The Hamburger". NPR. Retrieved November 23, 2007. 
Prentice, A. M., & Jebb, S. A. (2003). Fast foods, energy density and obesity: a possible mechanistic link. Obesity Reviews. An Official Journal of the International Association for the Study of Obesity, 4(4), 187-194. 
Stender, S., Dyerberg, J., & Astrup, A. (2007). Fast food: unfriendly and unhealthy. International Journal of Obesity, 31(6), 887-890. 
