13 December 2015 
Research Paper on Canine Hip Dysplasia 
As more pets are brought to people's daily life, Canine Hip Dysplasia(C.H.D.) draws more attention of those who own pets. I chose C.H.D as my topic because I care about the welfare of dogs and want to help the owners to keep their pets healthy. Since many pet owners want to keep their pets lively but actually don't know how, I would like to help. To the top of my knowledge, I think C.H.D can be inferred by observation and be diagnosed by examination. However, not all the owners and breeders know the proper way to identify it. Further more, there are some misunderstandings about C.H.D. which leads to some ignorance of C.H.D. I believe C.H.D. can be better prevented if all the owners and breeders pay enough attention to C.H.D. 
Doing X-rays on hips is the best way for breeders to detect C.H.D. and prevent it because there is no other method to diagnose. After doing X-rays, it is clear to see which level the dog's hip is on and tell whether it has C.H.D or not. However, some breeder may think it is a waste of time and money because dogs are changing all the time and may develop C.H.D after X-rays. Although this statement makes sense, it is more important to focus on the genetic factor. People who think it's the waste of time and money do not really understand what causes C.H.D. According to Dr. <name> C.H.D. is caused by both environmental and genetic reasons. If the C.H.D is genetically inherited, it will show up on the dog before 1-year-old. Since the X-ray examination is done on 1year-old dogs, so those dogs diagnosed by X-rays are usually genetically inherited. Also, based on the interview of Dr. Allrich, we know that the best way to prevent C.H.D is not using dogs that are bad gene carriers. ( <name> 4) For breeders, it is important and useful to know which dog has the bad gene thus they can avoid using these C.H.D. carrier. For those dogs that develop C.H.D. after examination are probably caused by the 
environment and they will not pass it to the next generations since it is environmentally affected. For better breeding, doing X-rays will be the best way. 
Before examination, some symptoms can be observed if a dog has C.H.D. Some people may think that there is no reason to believe a puppy has HD just from observation because some puppies just have it so slightly and it cannot be explicitly seen. However, with my own experience, I disagree with this point. There is always some evidence that we can find before examination. Some owners and breeders do not think it can be identified by observation just because they are not careful enough to note the evidence. It can be demonstrated by my own experience. I was working in a GSD kennel last summer holiday, so I had a chance to know more about C.H.D among German shepherd dogs in person. One day, our friend came to the kennel with his four GSD puppies. From observing the puppies he brought, we saw some abnormal behavior. One of the puppies always wanted to sit and rest instead of playing when we freed him to lawn. At the same time, we saw the puppy always sat on one side of its hip instead of sitting properly. All these behaviors made us predict that the puppy might have C.H.D. Later, when it is 1year-old, it is diagnosed as C.H.D. This case shows that if a dog has C.H.D, there must be some tenny symptoms displayed. Also, my supervisor in the kennel tell me that all the puppies he has that later examined as C.H.D somehow show some symptoms more or less on their early age. From his experience, we can see that C.H.D can be inferred from observation as long as you are careful enough to see the details. 
	Many people think if something is highly heritable, that means it is easier to control by gene selection. So, C.H.D can be controlled if we do not breed those dogs who have 
C.H.D. genes. There was a study on C.H.D for GSD in Switzerland that can be found on 
Allrich's webpage which has all the information about inheritable diseases for different kinds of dogs suggested this point. In Switzerland, they had a small population in GSD. In this study, for any dog that had C.H.D, they did not use them for breeding. Over 20year period, they decreased the incidence of C.H.D among the population in GSD. The incidence of C.H.D. went down from 30% to 15%. However, it is too ideal to realize in other countries all over the world due to many uncontrollable reasons. On one hand, some dogs develop C.H.D. at their later ages, so they might already have been bred before they develop C.H.D. and pass their genes to their offspring. On the other hand, owners of those dogs who have C.H.D will lose a lot of money if they don't breed their dogs with C.H.D. Thus, they will still breed the dogs that carry bad genes. So, C.H.D will never be control by not breeding those carriers. 
	In my opinion, it's the misunderstanding and misconception cause the owners and breeders not paying enough attention to C.H.D. Once the correct concept and method for C.H.D. prevention is spread out, owners and breeders take more action on prevention of C.H.D. So, to sum up, X-ray diagnosis for C.H.D is the best way for owners and breeders to detect C.H.D. for their dogs and it is necessary to do it. Also, for better prevention, breeder and owners should observe their puppies careful enough to see any evidence that displays. To improve the current situation, more knowledge about C.H.D. should be popularized to help improve the awareness and people who are related to pets should pay more attention to C.H.D, thus more environmental prevention can be done to decrease the incidence of C.H.D. 
Work Cited: 
1 <name>. "Interview report" (November 2015): 2-3 
2 Henry, William B, Jr, DVM, and Dipl ACVS. "Diagnosis and treatment of juvenile canine 
hip dysplasia" DVM 40. 10 (Oct 2009): 32-33. Print. 
3 Fred, Lanting. "The Hedhammar Cornell Study" CANINE HIP DYSPLASIA AND 
OTHER 
ORTHOPEDIC DISORDERS. (2007): 253-254. Second printing. 
