Outsourcing - A Grandeur Illusion 
	The argument presented in the favor of outsourcing is, that it provides the country with jobs and brings India closer to the world. It has helped India create more jobs in the IT sector and uplifted the economic status of the country. Some folks might also argue that, it has uplifted the educational quality of the country; but all of this is only partially correct. The whole picture shows a completely different aspect of outsourcing, which is hidden from the common people because they only think about themselves, and how to be a better opportunist. The fact is, unemployment rate is increasing every year Times of India, number of unemployed people are always at least more than 100 times than the number of employed people in the service sector, as it can be clearly seen in the chart above, the unemployment rate has gone up in the past couple of decades from 7. 32 to 9. 4 in 2010 Trading Economics. Social and moral value are almost lost from the Youth of the Nation. Indians are loosing identity as Indians and that is a matter of deep concern. 
	Due to a sudden rise in the jobs at the IT sector, the workforce has shift towards it, and has given many false hope of getting job in the IT sector with just a Bachelor's degree, says Kar in his article The Flipside of Outsourcing in India2005. India's population density is nine times that of United States, but the growing youth doesn't realize that and wants to live the life of a Westerner - 2 cars, a big home, a family, central conditioned home, all the latest gizmo. There are certain barriers to this dream, although the gizmos are now achievable, due to cheaper electronics, others cannot be achieved because an average Indian can only enjoy 2500 square feet of space back and front yard included, which is very common in suburbia in a Western country para 10. He even pointed out that this doesn't only affect the hopes and dreams of the youth and the working class, but also depletes the resources of the country at an enormous rate, such as Clean Water and energy consumption. India is already dealing with high amounts of pollution, with the rising of the income of the middle class, everyone wants to grow and get a bigger home, better car, more luxurious life style, without the considering the declining physical state of the country para 12 
	According to an article by Ghimire, in peoi.org - Social Impact of Outsourcing, that covered an interview with a customer service representative at a call center, in India, revealed how these odd working hours are a projection of the desperation of jobs and how people are willing to work at such low wages at such odd hours affects their lives drastically. Depleting them of any social life, leaving them with no to very little time to work on themselves or even to meet with their families, on occasions because, what might be a holiday in India, its not a holiday in the United States para10. Due to a high supply of human resources, and the less willingness to pay a lot for the job, the amount paid to these call center representative is very low and there are no unions to keep a check on them; making the lives of these youngsters unpleasant para3. 
	Some of the ways these problems could be taken care of by realizing that India is not The United States. If Indians want to do things in the Western way, there has to be checks on and bounds by the government to prevent the depletion of the resources of the country at the rate that it cannot be replenished. Government can make sure that no household is using more than a certain KWh of electricity on a monthly basis. The solution also includes the companies trying to use the resources of the country - human and physical alike, to realize that exploitation will only be helpful in the short run. In a broader picture, there will come a time, when India will not be able to provide for outsourcing and that would affect the companies more drastically that the inflation in 2008. The UN should come into play and make sure the Outsourced countries are not being ripped off of their identity by the outsourcing countries. The government of the outsourced country should also think about the people not just about representing the country in a lime light while keeping it hollow from inside. The outsourcing companies/countries could also help by not pushing the employees to become more Western every chance they get. 
