Educational value of video games 
Video games are becoming more and more common in children's daily lives. Children tend to spend more and more time on playing games nowadays because of video games' great attraction by allowing children to experience novelty. And because study is always the major focus of children's lives, it is crucial to understand the value of video games on children's academic performance. Because video games contained many different tasks and challenges, so playing video games can help children learn how to face and solve problems independently. Furthermore, because digital games have the ability to consistently attract and keep children's attention, when teachers combine video games into the classroom to teach students, students can be more focused and engaged to the course content and consequently learn knowledge in more depth. Therefore, in order to improve children's academic performances, adults should allow children to play video games. 
Video games are a special and efficient tool to improve children's various abilities like critical thinking and independence. Unlike other media entertainment, video games create a whole new world for children, in this world children can control different characters, face numerous challenges, work together with other players and solve difficult tasks on their own. Therefore video games are not just an simple entertainment way to please children, but also an effective way to improve their learning ability, develop their critical thinking, train their mind and strengthen their collaboration and decision making capability. And all those ability trained by digital games can bring huge benefits to children's future lives. 
Because of all those good benefits which playing video games can bring to children, nowadays more and more teachers start to combine video games into their course content in order to 
attract students and help them focus more in the classroom. When designing an game to teach students in the classroom, teachers can set up some activities about certain knowledge, like math questions which they are teaching in the classroom. So when children play the educational games in the classroom, they are learning certain knowledge and at the same time they can still feel pleasant because of the fancy pictures and voices shown in the game. In this way, compared with traditional class, game-based teaching can make children more engaged and focused in the classroom and therefore learn knowledge in more depth. 
Furthermore, not only can children benefit from educational games, teachers who use games to teach can also benefit from educational games. Because computers have the ability to gather data precisely and quickly, so when students play the educational games, computers can record their performances. In this way, teachers can use this data to grade their students effectively. In addition, when children answer the questions in the games, computers can also document how many times children have failed or succeed on certain question. In this way, teachers can easily know children' weakness and strength part in the course content and therefore adjust the focus of the class to help children improve their weakness. 
Of course, even though video games have such a profound educational value for children, there are also some negative consequences on their academic performance. Children's daily lives tend to be much more boring can unattractive when compared with digital games. It is very possible that some students may spend a huge amount of time and energy on video games. Naturally those students will spend less and less time on their homework and pay less and less attention on what they learned from school. Therefore, in order to prevent kids from bad academic performance, most parents and teachers decide to prohibit their young children from playing video games. However, this problem can be easily avoid if parents can help children manage their time properly. For example, when children play video games, parents can set a alarm to remind children when should they turn off the computer. Therefore, in stead of prohibiting children from playing video games, 
parents actually can help children more if they allow children to play video games and give them appropriate guidance. 
Children can be easily affected by attractive things around because of their plastic minds and great curiosities. As video games becoming a significant part in children's lives, it is inevitable that more and more children are heavily influenced by video games. Playing video games can make children independent, develop their mind, improve their critical thinking ability and help them learn new knowledge. So adults should allow their children to play digital games because digital games can be a really efficient tool to improve children's academic performance. The educational value of video games is so profound, we need to utilize those great values to help children learn and achieve more in the future. 
