Outline 
November 15th 
What should colleges do to help veterans 
Veteran students is a special group of students with different experience and background. What should colleges do to help them achieve academic success and smoothly transit to civilians? 
I.		Helping veterans to form relationships with others on campus is one of the main tasks for colleges. 
a. Different from other traditional college students, veterans usually feel hard to talk to other civilians. The maturity and attitudes of their college peers were significant barriers to social connection. 
b. The student veteran organizations and veteran help centers are two programs can directly contribute to college experience for veterans. They are opening national wide and provide a risk-free atmosphere to interact with peers who have similar experiences and understand military culture(Kirchner,117). 
c. However, in the research conducted in The higher education landscape for US student service members and veterans in Indiana, institutions appeared to be doing worst in the areas of having a SVO(14.3%)(Hitt,542). 
II.		The culture shock veterans experiencing in college is another big barrier for them. The sudden shift from the structured military to a less-structured college environment can be challenging. 
a. Many veterans report that they have the sense of alienation(O'Herrin,2). Multiple study participants described how in military circles it may be appropriate to speak very directly and assertively to others, whereas that type of interaction could be perceived as rude or aggressive in college(Olsen,105). Helping them to transit into a "civilian" way of talking to other people is important. 
b. To make the veterans less shocked as they enter colleges, some public universities started the special orientations for veterans. It helps them to know the offices in campus, so they'll know where to turn for help. Orientations offer financial, education benefits, and health benefits information and coping strategies as well as connect students to community groups such as the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars (Ryan, Carlstrom, Hughey, & Harris, 2011). 
c. Many veteran students need the help from related institutions to apply for their GI Bill, because the process of accessing to GI Bill is very complicated. 
III.		Some veterans have metal stress after getting back from war zone. 
a. 	Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder(PTSD) is one of the most common mental stress problem for veterans. A lot of veterans are haunted by it. 
b. Colleges should have institutions for the veterans with PTSD and other similar problems. Veterans should at least have the chance to talk to the therapists weekly. 
IV.		Establishing academic help room especially for veteran students 
a. 	Some veterans may have significant work commitments outside school. Veteran students are at a higher risk for dropping out of college, and that being student veteran is negatively correlated to grade point average(Olsen,102) 
b. Some colleges like Purdue are academic challenging. For veterans who haven't been studying for years, they need help to get used to it. 
V.		Helping veterans with disabilities. 
a. Some disabilities are invisible or undiagnosed. Many veterans reported that they don't know how to define the term "disabled". 
b. College should provides disabled veterans the assistance they need. 
VI.		Raising the awareness of other traditional students is necessary. 
a. Students don't really understand what veteran students have been through. Some of them may asked veterans questions which are rude, such as "How many people have you ever killed?". 
b. Letting students to know the veterans helps the veteran students to communicate with other traditional students. More students would be willing to help the veterans after understand them. 
