Time and Efficiency 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This research paper argues that the large amount of working time can not help individual to work efficiently by finding the relationship between the working time and performance of the work, and finding some scientific ways to work efficiently and productively. By improving the topic, several studies are mentioned. There are three parts of topic, first is to find the relationship of the amount of time and performance, then managing the boy energy. Finally, is about the scientific way to improve the efficiency of working. 
Time and efficiency 
There is a common sense that as long as you spend a long time to work on a project, you would get a good result. However, the time is limited and everyone has to spend time on his or her social activity and entertainment. Thus, some people may cautious about the true relationship between the amount of time you used and the performance you are at work. Especially for the college students, they always face a problem is how to arrange the spare time between each class to use the time efficiently and productively. In order to find out relatively efficient and usable schedule, we need to figure out the the relationship between working time and performance of work. Actually, how to work efficiently is an essential problem not only for a lot of freshman or students in the college, but also for every social worker in the real life. The entrepreneur gets the same amount of time a day, but how to conquer the whole market or a specific filed, they need a group of competent workers to finish the project efficiently and successfully. Thus the performance of the worker is also important for the society. Moreover, there are some common part or connection between the clerk and student, and some results are suitable for both group, so this paper will talk both group and illustrate my opinion that the working performance of the work is not directly proportional to the amount of time you work on it. 
The relationship between the working time and performance 
Studies form the workplace show that working overtime results in losses of efficiency, which supports my claim that students will not always benefit from studying for longer period. Firstly, a research did by Thomas (1997) shows that the consecutive overtime scheduled would worsening the working situation and be less productively. The data shows that 10-15% losses of efficiency for 50 and 60 hours work weeks for 121 workers (Thomas, 1997) The reason of losses of efficiency are complex, such as the body strength, energy, and working environment might take in to account, which will be discuss specifically in next paragraph. Business Roundtable. (1980) 
Even though workers have high efficiency during first two weeks, the average working efficiency declines for the rest six weeks. Therefore, when worker spend too much time on working would overwhelmed with with the heavy work, and have negative influence for the later performance. And it is same for the student, when they stay up late and study for a long time, the intense working time would influence the emotion outcomes and performance, since every individual has same body structure. 
The second study claims that taking a short break would have a positive effect on working efficiency and help individuals refresh the brain. A study form Burkland (2013), his experiment conducted by two group of people taking difficulty tasks, and observes the performance of them. They found out those individuals who are working effectively would spend six minutes to have a break, after 56 minutes working. (Burkland2013) Since everyone's brain has a range of load, if individual exceeds the load, the brain would 'power off' and stop working. Thus, long-term working is not a suitable way for people who want to finish the business or work efficiently, 
Body energy related to the efficiency 
In addition, managing the energy scientifically is the most important method for individual to work efficiently, not spending a large amount of time. Therefore, this reading material discusses the performance in physical and scientific way and shifts the focus on managing and renewing the body energy. Tony and Mc Carthy (2007) state: "Most of us respond to rising demands in the workplace by putting in longer hours, which inevitably take a toll on us physically, mentally, and emotionally." Because intense working would negatively influence our body function, the experiment contained 106 employments form different region, and gave them a specific training strategy to work on. Then they find out that four essential factors of working-the body, emotions, mind, and spirit-and these factors could be expanded and cultivated to increase our working efficiency. To have a healthy life style, regular life schedule, and positive emotion, we are more likely to work efficiently and have a better life. Then it is important for us to build and renew the physical energy to have a better state of body to solve the problem, since the time is finite resources and the long time work would have a negative of working result. As a result, the amount of working time is not essential problem of performance, it should be your own energy. 
Some scientific way to improve the efficiency 
Furthermore, the content form an online course that exercising and entertainments would improve and enhance individual's memory, which supports my claim that the amount of working time is not the way to improve working performance. According to the online course, which talks about learning how to learn form University of California, San Diego, human's brain has two mode of memorizing, which is diffuse mode and focused mode. To have a diffuse mode, which can help individuals enhance the memory, individuals could do some exercises or activities to help their brains change into diffuse mode. 
According to the research, doing exercise could help body to renew the neutron and keep the brain as healthy as the body. The quality of sleep also influences the study, because when people thinking and learning, brain would accumulate a specific substance which is metabolic toxins, and the sleep would help people to clean this substance. And this knowledge corresponds with my interviewee <name>'s personal experience, he talks about exercising and entertainment could help learning more efficiently that match the reading about diffuse study mode. (<name> personal communication, October 17, 2015) Because, when people start to learn a new knowledge, the brain prefer to use the diffuse mode. However, to change the learning mode as you wish to is not easy. Individual needs to do some entertainments and activities to help the brain change into diffuse mode, thus his experience could explain the importance of having leisure time. 
Argument 
There is an argument that long-term work would help individuals' brain to store more information or knowledge, which opposite to my opinion. Undoubtedly, some people think the long-term work would help people to concentrate on their mind to memorize the knowledge and solve the problem. However, it is not the truth for some reasons. An online psychology course form University of California, San Diego shows that individual is hardly to remember a lot of new concepts in one time. In term of memories, two modes included. First, working memory which helps ones to cope with current problems, such as remember the phone number. Second is long time memory, all the long term memories are allocated in the different part of the brain and be stored. To convert the working memory into long time memory, the knowledge need to be repeated several times for a long time. Therefore, individuals should separate the study time in several short-term, and repeat to learn the knowledge for several time in order to form a long memory, instead of spending a long time to learn and remember new knowledge. 
Conclusion 
Long time working would looses the working efficiency, because the string of body, energy and working environment. In order to have a good performance, we need to focus on the physical things, like the body building, emotion, human sprit and energy. Thus, the university should provide a complete community for students, such as the gym, music room, and concert, to help them have a better study environment. No matter for the student or worker that we all have the same body function, individuals all need some spare time to renew the energy and release the pressure to feel energetic and refresh themselves, then to have a healthy life and working efficiently. 
Reference: 
Business Roundtable (BRT). (1980). Scheduled overtime effect on construction projects Rep. 
C-2, New York, N.Y., 12-13. 
Burkland, C. (2013) The effects of taking a short break: Task difficulty, need for recovery 
Retrieved form: http://www2.uwstout.edu/content/lib/thesis/2013/2013burklandd.pdf 
Barbara, S. & Terrence, S. (2015) Learning How to Learn: Powerful mental tools to help you 
master tough subjects [Chapter 3]. Online course retrieved from: 
https://www.coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn 
Cody, C. (2014) To work better, work less. Available form: 
http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2014/08/to-work-better-work-less/375763/ 
Lauren. A, Eleanor. M, Allison G. Harvey, (2013) The effects of bedtime and sleep duration 
on academic and emotional outcomes in a nationally representative sample of 
adolescents. Retrieved form: 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1054139X13004862# 
Tony, S. (2007) Mange your energy, not your time. 
Retrieved from: https://hbr.org/2007/10/manage-your-energy-not-your-time 
Thomas, H. (1997) Scheduled overtime and labor Productivity: quantitative Analysis. Retrieved 
form: http://ascelibrary.org/doi/10.1061/(ASCE)0733-9364(1997)123%3A2(181) 
Hill, G. (2001). A level psychology through diagrams. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
Great Clarendon Street, Oxford, OX2 6DP 
Vancexu, (2015, Jan 8), Learning how to learn: part one [ blogs reading]. Retrieved from: 
http://vancexu.github.io/2015/01/08/learning-how-to-learn-part-one.html	 
