P5D1 
04/12/2015 
Long Distance Romantic Relationship: Too Hard to be Maintained? 
With technology developing, people have more chances to work, study or travel at a place far from their hometowns. Once you leave home and someone is waiting for you, the relationship between you and the person waiting becomes long-distance. How to maintain a long distance relationship? Many people may think that it is hard to keep a long distance relationship, especially for romantic one which requires a lot of energy and time. Some couples even feel deep fear of being separated so they break up before one partner leave. However, I need to say: Long distance romantic relationship should be taken as easily as long distance friendship or kinship since it is not too hard as what most people imagine. 
The first reason that I do not regard long distance romantic relationship as an overly tough experience is because opportunities for geographically separated couples to communicate with each other are as equal as ones for geographically close couples. As ways to communicate can have significant effect on a relationship, it has become more conveniently to make a cross-country call through Skype or post a photo to share feelings on Facebook. According to Jiang and Hancock (2013), long distance couples report significantly fewer interactions every day and have more intermediate media than geographically close partners. Nonetheless, they also find these two groups do not differ significantly in reported relationship satisfaction or relational uncertainty. Long distance couples use intermediate media to chat, send photos or update each other's daily routine as geographically close couples do. With video chats, a couple separated at two different places can even make more "face-to-face" conversations without spending plenty of money and time to take a serious visit. As Suzanne Phillips says in "Love in Long-Distance Relationships", couples should exchange the timeline, the feelings and the expectations. Updated technology has allowed people to travel to another places with less time as well as to communicate with other persons with higher efficiency. Long distance couples should take advantages of high-efficiency transportations and interpersonal media nowadays rather than stay at the same place and keep complaining. 
Why do I think long distance relationship as easy as geographically close one? The answer is stability. In a previous interview with graduate student <name> who specialize in academic field of long distance relationship, he mentioned that the break-up rate of these two kinds of romantic relationships are quite similar. Tan also emphasized that people who have experienced a long distance relationship tend to cherish a feeling more than people who have not, which makes long distance relationship somewhat more stable. If one is in a long distance relationship, he/she may have experience that people around him/her keep worrying about the stability, which does cause his/her awareness to pay more attention to preserve the relationship. However, geographically close couples seem more normal. Sometimes no "other people" warn them to devote more time and energy into their romantic connections so they forget it, which can also dilute and disrupt a geographically close relationship. Therefore, referred to Laura Stafford and Daniel J. Canary's research, types of maintain strategies are similar, yet people in different kinds of relationship should learn how to behave properly and correctly. Maintaining a relationship neither sound much more easy for geographically close couples nor too hard for long distance couples. 
