In recent years, participating in different volunteer efforts has gradually become a memorable experience in every student's life. They devote more passion and enthusiasm to volunteering than in the past and spend more time on them. However, there is always a debate: do the advantages of taking the volunteer work far outweigh its disadvantages? Personally, I agree with this idea in two points: Firstly, the volunteer works could provide us a great help in building a better resume in future career. Secondly, we could devote ourselves and share our love for the society through the volunteer works. Some parents might wonder if it is really worth it to spend time on volunteering instead of learning or participating in extracurricular activities. From my personal research, what the volunteer works brings to me is quite valuable and priceless in my life, and encourages me to become a better person. 
To begin with, the volunteer works could help us build a better resume for our future careers. As what I discussed in the past article, I found out that the resume with a range of volunteer experience could build a positive signal for employers. This reference (as sited in Handy, F., et al, 2009) suggests that students are more motivated to volunteer for building their r sum s than for other reasons. The employers are always curious about our past volunteer experience and the abilities that employees improved from it, such as communication skills, transpositional consideration, etc. This is because these abilities are quite essential to finish different tasks and challenges at work and decide whether we could be a good leader in the future. So the volunteering work is a promotion that could help us in future careers and achieving success. 
What's more, we could devote ourselves and share our love for society through volunteer works. When I was in high school, I often organized some volunteer works with my classmates, such as visiting the nursing house, donating quilts in winter, etc. Once I researched an article (cited Edwards, B., et al, 2001) which described students' volunteer experience and feelings. A high school girl mentioned that they once chatted with an elder citizen with other classmates; he was so thankful that they could accompany with him and talked the thoughts and feelings from his inner most. He was single for his whole life, without children and wife, so it was quite lonely to do lots of stuff on his own. However, their appearance brought him a great happiness, and he found the feelings which were surrounded by love and warm. After these volunteer works, she and her classmates truly found that although they were a tiny part in this world, once every individual share our love for the society, they could make some change for different individuals and embody our value for the whole society. Through this experience, some experts testified that most of students have the same feeling as me after volunteering. They analyzed that student volunteers constitute a substantial force of volunteer labor for local organizations, and they play significant roles in the community, roles that vary by organizational form. The sense of achievement that they gain from volunteer work render them feels their importance in society and promotes them to be a warm-hearted person in the future. So I strongly recommend that students should take part in different volunteer works. 
However, some people might doubt that is it really worth to spend so much time on volunteering instead of learning or participating in other extracurricular activities? From my research, the answer is yes! I found an article (cited by Eccles, J., & Barber, B., 1999) which investigates the potential benefits and risks associated with participation in five types of activities: prosocial (church and volunteer activities), team sports, school involvement, performing arts, and academic clubs. From their discussion, they found out that involvement in prosocial activities (including volunteering) was linked to positive educational trajectories and low rates of involvement in risky behaviors. However, the other extracurricular activities like team sports are totally different. Participation in team sports was linked to positive educational trajectories and the high rates of involvement in risky behavior, drinking alcohol, etc. In this way, we can learn that the risk in most of the volunteering work is considerably lower than some extracurricular activities. So it is quite worth to spend lots of time on it. 
All in all, the volunteer works in my point of view are extremely wonderful activities for us to experience. What they bring to us is much more than we expected and even could change our view to see this world. Do not hesitate, starting from now on! 
