Three major directions of reform in Chinese College Entrance Examination 
Declining in undergraduate employment, decreasing in entry level salary and recessing in the number of self-employed, China faces a severe talent crisis. Many people blame the Chinese National College Entrance Examination, also known as Gaokao, for the current situation because taking the Gakao test is the one and only way to get into university. Thus, a huge reform in the Gaokao test has taken place in China, aiming to maximize the use of talented people and to provide them with direct ways to enter college in their specific field. Specifically, the Chinese society encourages students to be well-developed, to be specialized in science subjects and/or to be technicians. To precisely select those three types of talent through the Gaokao test, I have three proposals: 1) Combine the arts and science tests; 2) Set up advanced science subjects tests; and 3) Separate the technician test from the traditional Gaokao test. 
Combining the science and arts tests offers unique skill sets that work better when combined. Years of segregation between the arts and science tests have caused a severe imbalance in knowledge in the majority of students over more than twenty years. We already see too many examples of how separation because of fields of knowledge limits students' minds and development. In our daily life, we are more likely to see science students with sharp minds and excellent problem solving abilities but have great problems communicating with others and expressing themselves. Contrarily, we also see liberal arts students with great oral and writing skills but completely lacking in logical thinking. As Du Jianwei (2014), a reporter from Sanjin City News, mentioned: "the nation's current education model produces just two types of graduates: logic-reliant thinkers and creativity-focused thinkers, which in the long run will only hamper the country's development" (n.p.). The best way to eliminate the segregation in talents is to combine the liberal arts and science tests in the Gaokao test, so students may gain knowledge in both areas during their entire high school studying time, which is a vital period for students to form expectations for their future and opinions towards society. Specifically, mathematics, physics, chemistry, and biology courses will build up strong analytic and logical thinking bases. Chinese, English, politics, history and geology will help students better understand Chinese society, interpersonal relationships, and emotional communication. People may argue that the reform will put too much pressure on students. Therefore, we can relieve the pressure by allowing students take tests multiple times, and each one is weighted differently. 
We can estimate science students' potential by administering advanced placement tests. Students' performance should be considered as additional but very important criteria in the Chinese college admissions process. For example, in the Zi Zhu Zhao Sheng tests, students are given a math or physics class covering really difficult material and a quiz right after the class to see how well students have mastered the content. This is the form of advanced placement test that I prefer to estimate students' potential. Similarly, AP tests in America serve as important criteria that demonstrate students' academic ability in certain areas. For instance, universities would like to see students majoring in engineering do well in AP Calculus and Physics tests, so that universities know that certain students have strong science skills and are ready for college study. Klein (2007) stated, "2001 high school graduates who had taken the AP Calculus course had an average fourth-year college GPA of 3. 0 (out of 4.0), while those who only took the AP class in high school had a GPA of 2. 84 and those who took the standard high school curriculum had a GPA of 2.81"(n.p.). We can draw the conclusion that students who took the AP test are academically more successful than those students who did not. In China, future advanced placement tests can include the "lecture and quiz" type mentioned above to estimate potential. The test could also cover knowledge during freshmen year in certain subjects to see students' passion for study. As more and more students who specialize in one subject tend to go above and beyond their current knowledge level, advanced placement tests can better evaluate their commitment to their study. Overall, setting the students' performance in advanced placement as part of the admission process will help universities to select their favorite students who excel in science. 
Alternative technical skill tests such as the Gaokao test for technicians will largely encourage more students to engage in technical areas. Nowadays, students who failed to get into college apply to technical schools, and the low quality of these students will not contribute to the development of society. To solve this huge problem, we should make the technical test as important as the Gaokao test to raise awareness among people. The technical test should contain two parts: the first part basic Chinese, math and English tests, focusing more on application rather than test taking abilities, and the second part technical skill tests based on the major students apply for. The format of the test ensures students are able to express themselves and to demonstrate scientific study skills. 
Some people may argue that high school is the place where students should have strong knowledge base in all subjects rather than specialize in one. Nevertheless, the society favors people who know comprehensive knowledge in a certain area rather than know only superficial knowledge for every subject. To avoid typically being dilettante, we should encourage students to discover their interests and potential and decide their future path. However, the huge problem is that students do not have clear career plans during high school, and they apply for college simply based on their test scores. To solve the issue, we'd better encourage high schools to set up career planning classes to help students clearly define their goals. And the reform of the Gaokao test will better help them achieve their goal by providing a direct path to the destination. 
Nevertheless, if the Gaokao test changes but the universities remain the same, the talent crisis and employment situation will be more severe. Thus, universities should also reform their way of teaching from the current examination-orientated model to an application-orientated one in the future. Specifically, universities should be strict in attendance and graduation policies, focus more on research and motivate students to engage in internships and major related jobs. Besides, universities should make all students "experts" in their studying area, rather than giving superficial and general education. After four years of professional study, students will be equipped with professional knowledge and job readiness. 
To sum up, combining the Science and Arts tests, establishing the science advanced tests, and providing technical tests, will motivate students to think about their future and take the right way to pursue their dream. In turn, the society will greatly benefit from those talented people who have their own strengths in various skills. Additionally, if the Gaokao test and university education remain unchanged, China will lose its position as the second largest economy in the world due to a lack of skilled-workers. 
Reference 
Klein, A. (2007). Researchers See College Benefits for Students Who Took AP Courses. 	http://web.a.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail/detail?sid=b4bc6a80-5324-4ebe-b46f-f5e8d	c3d1494@sessionmgr4003&vid=0&hid=4212&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc3Qtb Gl2Z==	#db=tfh&AN=23973798 
Du. J. (2014). Should Science and Arts Courses Remain Segregated?. http://www.bjreview.com.cn/forum/txt/2014-09/22/content_641024.htm 
