The best solution to chronic disease associated to overweight and obesity - Weight Loss 
In the modern United States of America, obesity is a very severe issue. It rates more than double in adults and children comparing to the 1970's (National Center for Health Statistics, 2010), and 34.9% of adults in the U.S. are overweight (Ogden, et al., 2014). Coincidentally, in the past few decades, chronic diseases, such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and diabetes, have become the biggest threats to human health. Some of these diseases have not been researched to show direct correlation with overweight and obesity, but some are a very clear positive correlation, such as type II diabetes (National Institute of Health, 1998). Although many people are experiencing sub-health condition, they still believe they are far away from chronic diseases and refuse to change. Nevertheless, the truth is often bloody. This phenomenon is caused by the combination of defensiveness and self-deception (Nolte, Elsworth & Osborne, 2013). On the other hand, overweight and obesity also adds negative psychological impact to people. Obese students may get bullied in their childhood and adolescent age (Stevelos, n.d.), and this will destroy their confidence and psychological health ([name], interview, 2015) (Blackburn, 1995). Taking both physical and psychological negative effects resulted from overweight into consideration, there is no reason to delay the treatment to overweight and obesity, and the best solution is to get rid of the burden of additional fat - weight loss, meanwhile, scientific weight loss plan will improve the efficiency and the success chance. 
Obesity is proved as the cause of type II diabetes and obesity hypoventilation syndrome. In addition, obesity has a positive correlation with the increasing risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, high blood fat, and many kinds of cancer, including colon, breast, endometrial, and gallbladder cancers (National Institute of Health, 2012). Psychologically, overweight also causes many negative impacts to people. Children with overweight have greater chances to get bullied, and they are easily to develop low self-esteem and body image discontent (Kalra, et al., 2012). For obese adults, they will most likely suffer depression and comorbid psychiatric problems, if they were obese since childhood or adolescence (Kalra, et al., 2012). Weight loss will either reduce the risk or help treat these diseases. Weight loss as low as 5% is proved to reduce or eliminate obesity oriented disorders (Blackburn, 1995). Weight loss between 10% to 20% will greatly improve glycemic control in type II diabetes subjects (Blackburn, 1995). Weight loss has a linear relation with reduction of blood pressure (Blackburn, 1995). In long term studies, weight loss is effective in slowing or preventing the return of hypertension. Weight loss will also contribute to reduction in LDL cholesterol (Blackburn, 1995). Women who lost weight at 17.3% average of initial weight have amelioration of symptom of binge eating behavior (Blackburn, 1995). 
A scientific weight loss plan is the beginning step toward success. The weight loss plan created by the National Health Service of UK recommends people to exercise for 150 min at minimum with calorie meter in each week, this will help people track their calorie intake and output to achieve better weight loss result (NHS Choices, n.d.). Some social media networking tools add competition in exercise, which will further stimulate the incentive to work out, but it needs rational judgement to prevent from over-exercising. Over exercising will result hormone distortion, excessive heart stress, and muscle loss. There is a very famous myth saying "short time aerobic exercise is meaningless to weight loss." (Weight-control Information Network, 2014) This statement is terribly wrong. Although one aerobic exercise for over 45 min is significantly effective in burning fat ([name], interview, 2015), exercise less than 45 min will still burn calories and prevent the accumulation of fat. Fragmented exercise as short as 10 min will add to a great result (Weight-control, 2014)., but waste those time on bed would contribute to nothing. In addition, weight lifting is also a good way to lose weight. The main effect of weight lifting is to build muscle, meanwhile, more muscle consumes more calories on daily basis, which will help burn fat (Weight-control, 2014). As the exercise plan goes, participants need to overcome excuses. As long as people stick with the original exercise plan, successful weight loss is not a mirage any more. 
Physical exercise is essential to weight loss, but without a scientific diet plan, it is not as effective as people would expect. Therefore, to maintain a good amount of healthy nutrition in diet and limit the calorie intake is also significant to the success of weight loss. The basic role in diet is to not over-eat. No matter how healthy and low calorie the diet plan is, more food means more calorie. However, it does not mean fad diet is good for weight loss either, because fad diet is to strict and depends solely on self-control (Weight-control, 2014). Thus, it is necessary to have a diet plan that can satisfy appetite. A smart way to feed the appetite is to consume food containing more fiber, such as wholegrain food (NHS Choices, n.d.). Fiber could stuff stomach for longer time and make people feel less hungry. In addition, many people may have wrong intuition to drinks. In fact, the calories contained in alcohol and or daily drink, such as coffee and juice, are very high at 7 calories per gram, which is almost as high as fat (NHS Choices, n.d.). 
In conclusion, weight loss is the gateway toward overcoming the negative effects and diseases both physically and mentally. Scientific exercise plan as well as diet plan will contribute to the process of effectively losing weight. People should give more care to overweight and obese people to guide them on the right direction. Schoolmates, colleagues, and friends of obese people should cheer them up on their weight loss, instead of bullying them and teasing them on their weight. For people who weight normally, a scientific exercise plan and diet plan will improve their healthy condition. With such a great living style, people will become more energized and optimistic in working and living. 
