Argumentative Essay 
4/23/16 
Final Draft 
Factors that Chinese whole nation system must be changed 
Chinese whole nation system of sports invoked lots of debates in recent years. Some people stated that this system wasted a large amount of money to chase the champions and honors. Additionally, the competition in this area is extremely high. And as a result, many children and teenagers from poor family who are struggling to improve their lives and support their families became the victims of this whole nation system. On the other hand, some people believe that the whole nation system is good because it has brought China lots of medals and honors. This system made China become a strong sports power among the whole world. Although the whole nation system of sports attributes a lot to the success of Chinese sports in international competitions, to my opinion, this system must be changed because it wasted a large amount of money and abused Chinese young athletes. I will use some examples and factors from the interview I conducted and the articles I founded online to support my thesis statement. 
Furthermore, the high competition among all the athletes could ruin their lives. Most of the athletes did not get the chances to take part in some world-class matches. These players have to choose another path after being eliminated through the selection, and the most important years of their lives are wasted. The article "State property: Memoirs of a top Chinese gymnast" by Ian Ransom gives us a great example to support this opinion. Ransom showed us a story of a Chinese gymnast named Fan Ye who grew up under the whole nation system and won several metals in Olympics. Fan told us that although she got the chance to get into Peking University after being retired from an athlete, most of the athletes can't even find a job or get into a college, because it is really hard for retired athletes to find another job because of the lack of knowledge and skills. Fan also pointed out that the nation never cared about athletes' future when they are not able to win medals in international competitions. Fan's words revealed the ruthless side of the whole nation system and the terrible situation of most athletes in China. It is a good example supporting my opinion, which is the cruel competition could ruin athletes' lives. 
However, on the other hand, some people argued that the whole nation system in China is the best because it brought China lots of medals and honors. I want to show an example from "Article Exposes Flaws In Way American Youth Sports System Develops Talent" written by Brooke De Lench to refute this opinion by showing the American sports system. She stated that teenagers under this system got games-based practice, fewer games and overuse injuries. They also had a good balance between sports and family. She pointed out that athletes under this system are talented and have great future. Obviously, American Sports is also a strong power among the whole world, and the teenager system of America won lots of appreciations. This example shows that the whole nation system is not the only one that could help the country to win medals and honors. To my opinion, the American youth sports system is a great example for us. America has a matured sports environment to train teenagers and help the athletes to strive for medals without abusing them. For this reason, to win medals and honors could not be the excuse to applaud the whole nation system and abuse young athletes. 
The stories and experiences I found are all good examples to prove that Chinese whole nation system is terrible and it must be changed. When we are trying to improve our sports performance, the first duty is to care about our athletes. When our athletes lose confidence and positive attitude for rest of their lives, the medals and honors mean nothing. 
