Argumentative Paper (draft#1) 
April 13th, 2015 
938 words 
Photovoltaic Cells or Coal for Production of Electricity? 
Introduction 
When we find a problem with something we look for a replacement. We hope for a better substitute that not only does all the same functions but also negates the defects found in the previous thing. Similarly when we found out that coal causes many harmful effects in the production of electricity, we tried to use photovoltaic cells for the same. Through the various papers I have done, more and more research was done in this matter. I read credible literary sources and spoke to an expert to completely understand this topic. Starting off with many doubts, queries and research questions I have now finally come to a conclusion. This extensive research has made me more knowledgeable and aware of the various alternative technologies that help the environment in every small way possible. 
Originally I wondered could photovoltaic cells effectively replace coal in the production of electricity? Then I realized this question is too simplistic to address this complex idea. Instead the better question might be: When, or where, can photovoltaic cells replace or support coal? To this question I have gathered some very useful information. 
What was the need for an Alternative? 
For several hundred years and counting, Coal has an integral part of producing electricity. Coal provides 30.1% of global primary energy needs and generates over 40% of the world's electricity. Coal soon became the primary source of base load power in the world. It could produce more electricity than most fuel source and hence became the most used fuel source to generate electricity. Such was the importance of coal. All went well till we started facing the consequence of using this method. It was time to get an alternative that ensured production of electricity with the same efficiency. The need for an alternative not only arises from the fact that coal pollutes the environment and produces harmful byproducts, but more so from the fact that it is a non-renewable source of energy. There might be a point in the future where we wont have sufficient coal to burn to produce electricity if we don't act fast. 
Could photovoltaic cells be an effective replacement to coal? 
Photovoltaic cells are a great innovation. It uses the most abundantly available natural resource-sunlight, to produce useable electricity. This technology simply absorbs the photovoltaic cells and converts it into electricity that can be either used or stored in batteries. The photovoltaic cells has already played a role in some industries and has helped in many areas such as supplying power to satellites, radio relay stations, time stamp machines and devices, public lighting, and signage systems. It can also be used in solar pumping of underground water and in electrical devices. Considering the kind of work these cells do, one would easily assume that these cells could be easily replace coal in the production of electricity, but this is unfortunately not true. The limitation of this technology doesn't lie in the efficiency but primarily in the cost of making it. The materials required to make these cells weren't the only cost; even the storage, battery and installation costs were very high. The manufacturing and maintenance costs were unavoidable costs, which if reduced in one place would tally in another. A term I learnt from interviewing my expert was the LCOE - Levelized Cost of Electricity. It is the cost of generating electricity at the point of connection to a load. This is an economic measure that compares different methods of electricity generation on a comparable basis. We would require this to make an accurate decision of which resource- coal or photovoltaic cell was more economically feasible. The longevity of the cell also mattered, there would be several costs such as -the disposable and recycling costs, further added. These cells once used aren't completely reusable which pulls another feather off the cap. 
What would be our most viable solution? 
A key point to be noted is that any manufacturing process would have some negative effects and would not be perfect. So our most viable solution would be to combine several natural resources that complement each other thereby subtracting the drawbacks and collectively increasing the efficiency. Over the years many natural resources have proven to be reliable and have cratered to our needs. We could produce electricity by using many other natural resources such as wind energy, biomass, geothermal energy hydroelectric power plants and tide energy. These if situated in an ideal location can produce tons of electricity that would reduce our reliance on coal to produce electricity. Only when all pieces of a puzzle are put together is the picture complete, likewise combining all these natural forms of abundantly available energy could further enhance the efficiency of it. 
Conclusion 
If I had to answer the question "Can photovoltaic cells effectively replace coal in the production of electricity?" the answer would be no. Although this does not imply that along with the other natural resources it cannot crater to the global needs. We have been blessed with abundant untapped resources. New discoveries are made everyday regarding the use of some natural resource helping the mankind. If we collectively work towards making this world a safer and healthier place it would be possible only by using these resources provided to us. Photovoltaic cells have a great potential that could be used in several different places and does bringing down our dependence on these fossil fuels. Like they say every drop makes the ocean, similarly every small measure taken now will help us in the future. 
