P5d3 
April 26/2015 
Should international students prepare early for job-hunting? 
Three are many reasons that make me consider this topic or question worth to argue. Based on the situation that more and more international students, especially Chinese students, are streaming into the US, job-hunting is considered a very important thing by a lot of students, also their elder family members. 
The first time I was thinking about this question, my answer was no, because I thought the most important thing in college especially in freshmen and sophomore year that I should do is study, which is also my parents' requirement before I came to the US. I naturally considered job-hunting the mission that we can easily complete in our junior or senior years or even right after graduation. However, when I started to make some friends who are junior or senior, their experiences and feelings about graduation totally changed my mind. Most of my friends who are close to graduation regret for not preparing earlier for job-hunting. From then on, I found that it could never be easy to find a job or make a good decision right after graduation if you don't even think about it before. So, it's important for us, international students, to prepare early for job-hunting. 
I would like to talk about two reasons why I think the time for international students to know about the job market and find a job is pretty limited and starting early is important. 
The first reason is that early preparation can help you overcome the time limitation. As an ambassador who is working for Purdue Center of Career Opportunity told me that although there is a STEM plan set by US government for international students whose major is science, engineering, technology in order to provide additional time for their job-searching, a lot of students in such department still find it hard to find a job they like in such a limited time after graduation. However, some students from liberal arts or communication department found the job easily because they really prepared early. For example, some students went to CCO when they are still a freshman and they started to develop their leadership ability and found their relationship with some potential companies that they are interested in. When they are stepping into junior or senior, they can find the internship easily because they have already won the trust from the company, and the process of hiring will become very smooth. However, you may ask me why internship is important and why not spending more time to get a high GPA. The reason is that when a company manager is deciding whether or not to hire you, they will focus on both your GPA and your working experience. No one can deny the importance of GPA, however, today it is very normal for students, especially international students to get a high GPA, so GPA competition is gradually out. Instead, internship is precious. However, the most important thing to get an internship is spending time on it, because no one can be so lucky to get an internship whenever he or she wants, instead, the process requires a lot of time and also the chance is lower than your expectation, which means you may apply a lot of companies again and again, waiting for their confirmations but you still can't make sure you will be accepted. So as you can see, if you can start early, even though you are not in STEM plan, you can win yourself a huge advantage for job-hunting. 
The second reason is that early preparation can help you make the best choice, which is very vital for your whole life. You may wonder what kind of choices you need to make during job-hunting process. In fact, there are a lot of choices we need to make as early as possible like the choice of job types, the choice of living countries or places and so on. Some people may argue that job-hunting or choice making is just waste of time, because they have already had asset or even have a company, so they don't need worry about anything. However, it is a wrong idea because when they lost interest in what they are doing in the future, they will feel regret for not making their own choices for their career and their life in an early time. I have a very good example to illustrate this point. Ieoh Ming Pei (born April 26, 1917), commonly known as I. M. Pei, is a Chinese-born American Architect often called the master of modern architecture. When he was in college, his father asked him to learn finance because his father was the head of Chinese Bank and wanted him to continue his business. However, when he started to get information for future job and to think about his preference for career in an early time, he lost interest in his major. Then, he changed his major to architecture immediately, which is big challenge for him because after graduation he needs to find job by himself. However, he not only made it but also made it perfectly because he knew what he really wants to do at the very beginning. During the four-year college time, he visited lots of places all around the US in order to appreciate some great works from previous architects and also took some internship in American, which helped him gradually form his own style of creating. Now, when he thinks back, he considers his early preparation for career as the key to his success. In my opinion, the key to his success is his early decision about changing major, which is based on his early exploration for future career. So, as you can see preparing early for job-hunting has the advantage beyond job-hunting itself. Actually, it can influence your whole life. 
There is another possibility that some international students may think they don't need to prepare for job-hunting because they have already decide to come back to their hometown right after graduation. However, in my opinion, it is kind of avoiding to take responsibilities for the choice they made themselves because it is also not easy to get your position in any of a country if you have no preparation before. Based on the information that I got from an academic manual about job-hunting situation, it is no hard to see that international students are still facing a big challenge for job-hunting even when they choose to come back to their own country because of the lack of working experience. Also, there is a survey in that manual shows that international students who tried to find an internship or just do some favor in some companies in their home countries by using their summer vacation have a lot more chance to be hired when they finish study and come back. So, whether or not you decide to stay in the country you are studying in, early preparation is important. 
In conclusion, I agree that international students should prepare early for job-hunting in any situation. Even though I think it is impossible for everyone to actually find a job under such study pressure, I still feel positive that prepare early for job-hunting is worth to do for your whole life. 
