ENGLi 106i 
P5d1_arp 
November 19th, 2015 
Argumentative Essay: Should students listen to music while studying? 
Nowadays, students prefer to listen to music when they are studying. Anywhere I go I can see students with their headset on reading books or doing their homework. So this drew my attention. Should we listen to music when we study? Is it beneficial? Or it is just a way of distraction? Therefore I did some research, read some books about neuron science and conducted an interview with a neuron science professor on my campus. After I collected all the data and analyze them thoroughly, I came up with a conclusion. It is not good for students to listen to music, music will distract us from learning materials and degenerate our efficiency. 
Music can affect one's efficiency. When studying, people intends to memorize materials, comprehend questions and answering questions. While doing so, one's left hemisphere, that is, the right part of the brain that mains comprehensions and memorizations, become more active. One of the widely accepted theories about how the brain works explains that, human brains function by billions of neurons connected with each other inside the brain. When neurons get stimulations from seeing, hearing, touching and so on, they release chemicals that cause them to shoot out electrical impulses that can pass on to the next neurons and eventually, pass to the main area in the left hemisphere to process and transcode outside information that received. If one is listening to music while trying to memorize some math formulas, those different kinds of sounds in music can cause left hemisphere to be "confused" since there are too many stimulations waiting to be processed by neurons that left hemisphere don't know which one is the dominate one. Therefore causes degenerate performances in remembering materials. Also, brain can get tired easily under highly heavy work situation. "Imagine trying to learn something while you're on a roller coaster." Said by <name>. Because that is what is like when someone is listening to music while studying. For loud or intense music like pop or rock n roll, the brain is at highly tense situation. 
Most students think that listening to music can reduce stress and relax the brain. However that is not the case. Because listening to music is increasing the information brain needs to work on, it is actually increasing the work for the brain. So brain will get tired, and until then it would be even harder to concentrate and remember things because the brain is already at its limit. 
"Imagine trying to learn something while you're on a roller coaster." Said by <name>. Because that is what is like when someone is listening to music while studying. For loud or intense music like pop or rock n roll, the brain is too "nervous" to do other things. Just like when riding roller coaster you can only concentrate on yelling, when listening to music, you can't concentrate on studying. Some might say music made by Mozart are peace and quiet, they still have the same negative impact, only smaller than loud music. 
Experiments were conducted by scientists. Researchers from the University of Wales Institute, Cardiff, tasked 25 students with memorizing lists of consonants under different circumstances. Students are separated into five groups. Group one of students were in a silent environment. Group two was listening to music that all students in the group like to listen to. Group three was listening to random numbers. Group four was listening the repetition of the number three. And group five was listening to music they all dislike. The result showed that listening to music and random numbers, both liked music and disliked ones, hampered the recall. However, groups that in a silent environment and listened the repetition of three didn't hampered. So the conclusion is, listening to music, regardless of one's opinion to it, impairs the ability to memorize information in a set order, but lack of change in any background noise doesn't. Some people might say that repetition of three also doesn't degenerate efficiency. True, but music all include many changes and variety of tone in it, so while listening to music, there won't be a lack of change in background noise, hence still impairs the learning efficiency. 
In conclusion, listening to music while studying can have only negative impact on students. It can distract students from study and degenerate efficiency of learning. Students should prevent themselves from listening to music while studying. Instead, schools can encourage students to listen to music before get down to study, which is better than listen to music during learning materials or get ready for exams. 
