P5D1 
Is culture shock research important? 
	Culture shock is a disorientation people may suffer when they shift to a new circumstance. Some people believe that although this phenomenon do have some negative impacts, it will disappear when time passing, so there's no need for us to pay attention on it. However, I believe that it is necessary for us to do research about culture shock. Because it will happen to everyone and this phenomenon might bring suffers bad and long-term impacts. My suggestion to cope with it is to keep in touch with the culture you are going to before departing. 
	My first reason is world globalization. In the past, it might take people several days to arrive in a new country. Nowadays, with the developments of the times, the world becomes smaller and smaller and it becomes more and more convenient for people to travel around the world and enjoy the different cultures. The development of transportation makes our life really easy and, at the same time, brings us a problem, culture shock. The more often people travels, the more frequent they might suffer this phenomenon. So people need to pay more attention on it. 
Another reason for the culture differences are everywhere. The best example is western culture and eastern culture. When I had my first breakfast in the United States, I asked my American leader "where can I got the hot water". He was totally shock and could not understand why I was asking for hot water. Even the different places in one country may have differences. For example, in China, people who from northern cities will give you a hug when meeting, but people who from southern cities might just shake hands with you. Because culture differences are everywhere, people who want to have a long-distance trip will almost certainly meet some problems during culture transition. Thus we can say that everyone might suffer culture shock and it is really necessary and important to do some research. 
	I believe that researching is crucial also because it will bring sufferers really negative and long-term impacts. According to my interview and the papers written by those experts, everyone may have different symptoms. For some people, like people who is low-spirited or from a totally different country, the impacts might be serious. Those kinds of people will feel more depressed during culture transition and it will be harder for them to cope with the psychological problems. They may also suffer from depression and the worst condition may be suicide. For those common people, even if they can cope with culture shock gradually, there will be long-term impacts. They might refuse to go to other culture due to this experience or they might still feel afraid to talk to foreigners. So in order to help people cope with this phenomenon, it is significant to do some research about culture shock. 
	However, some people think that to most of the people, although they might meet some difficulties when shift to a new culture, they can cope with it when time passing without knowing this phenomenon. They suggest that instead of research culture shock, scientists should pay attention to ways to help those low-spirited people. It is true that a lot of people can go through the difficulties by themselves, but if people know more about culture shock, they can overcome it more quickly, thus can pay attention on studying or working as soon as possible. So it will be helpful if we can have more knowledge about the phenomenon. 
	Culture shock becomes common and frequently happened due to globalization. I think this kind of common phenomenon requires everyone to pay attention on it. I suggest colleges and companies who have foreigners should do some survey to see how many people suffers culture shock. This can help people notice the rate of sufferers and the bad impacts it brings. Although I know that it is almost impossible for people to thoroughly solve this phenomenon, I hope scientists' research can make people cope with it more quickly. 
