Phubbing 
Are you annoyed with some people who lower their heads to play with their phones all the time? For example, it is common that at bus station, many young people concentrate on their smart phones when they are waiting for the bus; at friends' party, your old friends prefer to type on their phones rather than talk to others near them. This phenomenon which has appeared in recent years is called Phubbing. The new word, Phubbing, is an amalgam of the words "phone" and "snubbing", which means people snub someone in favor of mobile phones, and it has become a common phenomenon in modern society. It may be true that the smart phones provide a new form of communication for modern people; however, more and more people are addicted to smart phones, and the Phubbing behavior, causing interpersonal and social problems, should be stopped. 
Phubbing makes people prefer to chat on the phone rather than face to face communication, which deteriorate people's real world social relationship. The Gulf News, Get smarter than your smartphone, stop Phubbing (2013) gives a survey that more than 50% of respondents of Middle East and North Africa said they felt more comfortable with virtual conversations than real-time ones. Comparing to face-to-face communication, people prefer to deal with strong feelings through typing them on the social network or blogs, because this gives them an alternative to processing emotions in real time. According to Erik Erikson, a psychoanalyst, "Net not only supplies teenagers with lots of opportunities to explore who they are and what they aspire to but also generates added anxiety, heightening peer pressure and encouraging many to construct, edit and perform a 'self' in an effort to win friends and influence."("Friends" Without a Personal Touch, 2011) However, online life actually tends to promote more superficial, emotionally lazy relationships, as people are drawn to connections that seem low risk and always at hand. If people are addicted to the virtual connection for a long time, they will lose their real friends and even lose their essential real-life communicative ability. 
Phubbing represents indifference that even causes potential safety hazard. CNN has reported that last year, Justin Valdez, a college student was shot in subway in San Francisco California, the U.S. The surveillance video showed that before Justin was killed, the killer pulled out the pistol several times, and even wiped his nose with it. However, nobody noticed the killer because the surrounding passengers all focused on their cell phones. If the passengers had noticed the surrounding situation and reminded victim, the tragedy might have been avoided. Phubbing makes people unaware about the surrounding situation, so that people do not know what is going on near them and even lack communication with others when an emergency happens. 
The Phubbing habit of adults affects children greatly. According to Xinhua news, a famous news network in China, has reported that over half of the children are addicted to playing with i Phone or i Pad, just like their parents. With the increasing pressure of work, a lot of people use electronics to deal with business things or relaxed themselves but ignore interaction with their children. As time goes by, young children get to know these smart electronics and become addicted to playing the games on them rather than playing with other children. The negative effects brought by Phubbing are tremendous for children, not only hurt children's eyes, but also impede children's real-life communication. 
Some people believe smart phone is the most important tool for modern people and Phubbing is a common phenomenon, which is unnecessary to be stopped. From Mr. Sypher, my interviewee, the Phubbing phenomenon is an inexorable trend. He believed that due to the pace of life was quite rapid in present society, people were busy with plenty of work, so they only had fragment time to communicate with others on the phone. This is the reason why people are always using their smart phones. However, people are busy with working should not be regarded as an excuse of not meeting with others. On the one hand, although people are busy, they should use their limited time to communicate with others face to face to keep the close relationship rather than relying on the virtual connection via the smart phone. On the other hand, many people are addicted to Phubbing and ignoring other people. In other words, although people are not busy and have enough time, they still do not meet others face to face but just focus on their own phones. Some people Phubbing just because they are addicted to playing with the smart phones, however, this bad behavior brings interpersonal communication problem for them, which should be stopped necessarily. 
In order to stop Phubbing, volunteers from different countries promote "Stop Phubbing" campaign, encouraging people to turn off the mobile phones, turn off the apps, and back to the real world communication. Other than the personal effort to relieve Phubbing, some technical researchers find the way to change device to help people stop Phubbing. For example, from Personal or Social? Designing Mobile Interactions for Co-located Interaction (2014), the workshop aims to explore the design of new application ideas for mobile devices that explicitly encourage users to engage in face-to-face interaction and also aims to bridge the gap between personal mobile devices and social interactions of co-located people. 
The appearance of smart phone is fantastic, but people should use it in a correct way. Phubbing is a negative effect brought by smart phones, which has become a social problem in recent years. It may be true that smart phone is the most indispensable tool for modern people and Phubbing behavior is hard to stop, I believe people's self-control and the device technical change will relieve this problem someday. 
Reference 
Sanya Nayeem. (2013, Sep. 8). Get smarter than your smartphone, stop Phubbing. The Gulf News. Retrieved from http://www.lexisnexis.com/hottopics/lnacademic/?verb=sr&csi=338760&sr=HEADLINE(Get+smarter+than+your+smartphone%2C+stop+phubbing)%2BAND%2BDATE%2BIS%2B2013 
Michiko Kakutani. (2011, Feb. 21). "Friends" Without a Personal Touch. The New York Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2011/02/22/books/22book.html?ref=review&_r=0 
Kyung Lah and Lateef Mungin. (2013, Oct. 10). Train riders too consumed with phones to see gun before shooting. The CNN. Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/10/tech/san-francisco-shooter-phone/ 
Hui Ma and Long Wang. (2012, Nov. 10). Take care of your i Phone: children are addicted of it. The Xinhua net. Retrieved from http://news.xinhuanet.com/fortune/2012-11/10/c_123935300.htm 
Pradthana Jarusriboonchai. (2014). Personal or Social? Designing Mobile Interactions for Co-located Interaction. Retrieved from http://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~jef/papers/Nordi CHI2014-Personal-or-Social-Workshop.pdf \ 
