Rolex: Overpriced Trash or Invaluable Treasure? 
Since Hans Wilsdorf founded the Rolex company in 1905, Rolex has been one of the most successful watch companies in the world. Rolex products about one million watches per year and has sale of approximately over 4. 5 billion dollars. When people talk about luxury watch, the first brand they can think of is Rolex. Rolex is so reputable that this company is tied for second place on their overall list of the 100 most reputable companies; it is also number one reputable company as measured by consumers. However, there is massive controversy regarding to the price of the Rolex watches. These watches are expensive: the average price of a Rolex watch is about 37,000 dollars and even the cheapest Rolex watch Rolex Oyster cost about 3,000 dollars. Due to its ridiculously high price, a lot of people criticize that the real value of the watch is way lower than its price. In order to find out whether Rolex watches really worth the money, I have spent some time reading some articles online and doing interviews with some of the Rolex collectors. After the research, my view is that Rolex watch is actually worth every penny you pay for it. Because of its quality, the versatility, ability to maintain its value and its value outside the watch itself, it is very likely that people who bought the Rolex watch won't regret the purchase. 
When people evaluate the watch, the first thing they are going to look at is the quality of the watch. And Rolex watch has arguably the best quality in the world. Back when Hans Wilsdorf found the company, his initial goal is to making precise and durable timepiece which shows how they care about the quality of the watch. They had their first waterproof and first dustproof watch called "oyster" in 1926 and an English swimmer swim across the English Channel for ten hours with the watch "oyster". After that, the watch is still working perfectly fine. In recent a year, they made a extremely durable watch that can function in more than 100 times beyond the depth that any human could physically survive. In 2012 they had a challenge called "The Deepsea Challenge" which the watch dived down up to 12,000 meters which shows how crazy durable the watch is. 
A great watch brand not only have to make great quality watches, it also has to have great variability. If you buy a watch from the company that sells limited types of watches, there is very likely that you will see a person on the street wearing the same watch as you do. But if you buy Rolex watches, it would not become a problem at all because Rolex has great variability. Watch collector David Ferrell said, "Rolex offers 3,200 combinations of features on its new watches alone -- different compositions steel, gold, platinum, case sizes, bezel types, bracelets, straps, dial colors, date displays, numeral markers and more -- and, when added to a century's worth of previous models and styles, many of them collectibles, the number of possible choices becomes mind-boggling". Rolex watches: A timeless example of building a champion brand, page 1. You never have to worry about getting the same watch as other people because this watch is customized, is just for you. 
Admittedly there are plenty of people say that the Rolex is overpriced product. One of my friend said that the rolex watch functions the same as the watch in walmart which cost about 20 bucks. There are also people said that Rolex is just a dull and boring brand because they made the same type of watches. Also, critics say that Rolex is more about money than the watch itself. There are a lot of robbery even murder incidents happen because criminals want to get the valuable Rolex watches and turn into money. However, it is not just about the money or the fame. There is a reason why Rolex is so expensive. From the Cross Channel Challenge in 1926 to climbing on top of Everest in 1953, so many adventurers did so many magnificent things and went to so many beautiful places with Rolex. It is a symbol of not giving up and fighting for the top of the mountain. It also symbolizes that we should get out of our comfort zone and get ready for the adventure everyday. From the interview, my friend and watch collector John told me, " I bought this watch not just for the watch. It reminds me of the time when I have 5 dollars in my bank account and how I pull out and become successful. I have to keep fighting and enjoy every day's adventure". 
It is true that Rolex is not for anybody. But if you have one, you are going to find out how incredible and invaluable it is. And about the money. Hell, we have all of those time to work hard to get money, but it is very rare to have one of those watches on the wrist. So I think it is worth the time and sacrifice to get Rolex watch. There is no easy way to get a Rolex, which is the beauty of Rolex. Just like our life, we have to fight hard and go through adventure to enjoy the beauty of life. 
Reference: 
http://www.rolex.com/rolex-history/1953-1967.html 
Taylor, David Dec 3, 2010 Rolex watches: A timeless example of building a champion brand 
http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/817184628?rfr_id=info%3Axri%2Fsid%3Aprimo 
