Enhancing Sleeping Quality 
Introduction 
Being an essential part of human life, sleep has been seen as one way of restoring energy. However, those who have trouble with sleeping may feel tired instead of relaxed when they get up in the morning. People all want to get high-quality sleep to improve their life, but seldom do they know precisely how to obtain it. Thus, scientists have been conducting numerous research projects, trying to explore the secrets of human sleep. 
I've always been fascinated about sleep, mainly due to my personal sleeping troubles. I have been suffering from low-quality sleep for several years since senior high school and I am still struggling with it right now. Being a patient makes me feel the pain directly and has been driving me towards the issue of sleep. When I got the chance to conduct this project I chose sleep as a topic; by interviewing a doctor and reading related articles I began to understand the influential factors about sleeping patterns and tips to improve unsatisfied sleep. 
By conducting the "how to sleep well" project I found out that lifestyle determined people's sleeping patterns. Among different aspects of lifestyle, regularity of sleeping time, low stress level, healthy diet and exercise are the most powerful factors. When these are well taken care of, people's sleeping patterns are generally good. When people want to enhance their sleep quality, they should consider these four aspects. 
Analysis 
To gain higher sleep satisfaction, people should try to maintain the following four vital things: regularity of sleeping time, low stress level, healthy diet and exercise. Generally speaking, regularity is the key issue since human body functions according to the inner clock. Once people stop following their schedule, the inner clock will be disturbed and the body may no longer be working efficiently. Healthy diet and exercise will help unload the burden of the body, which makes people feel more energetic and concentrated. Also, low stress level is crucial because people fall asleep easier when they don't have too much things in their mind before bed. To lower stress level, keeping exercising and eating healthy diet helps a lot. These four factors are not separated, they can strengthen each other. 
To gaining more knowledge about helpful tips about sleep, I interviewed Dr. Richardson, a family nurse practitioner at PUSH (Purdue University Student Health Center). She addressed great importance on the issue of regular sleeping and eating hours, especially for college students. While regularity is important, different groups of students tend to have various sleeping patterns (personal communication, October 16, 2014). As shown in the report of Tsai and Li (2004), while college students getting up earlier on weekdays which leads to less sleeping time, gender and year of school partially determine students' sleep. Female students have earlier bedtime and rise time, longer sleep latency and more awakenings during the night. Freshmen have shorter sleep time not because they go to bed late but because they get up earlier than others on weekdays. 
The role of healthy diet and exercise is often neglected by people. Not a lot of people will associate them with high-quality sleep, only some of them may try to adjust their diet and exercise after they are in sleeping trouble. As advised by Dr. Richardson, avoiding heavy meals at least three hours prior to bed is helpful for falling asleep. For food type, people should choose those that are low in sugar. Sugar, or in the form of carbon hydration, can lead to the rise of blood sugar, which will hinder people from having nice and sound sleep. Besides proper types of food, proper types of exercise are also one thing that people need to know. For exercise, Dr. Richardson suggested walking. By walking, people from all age groups can work out their stress without getting too excited to fall asleep. (personal communication, October 16, 2014) 
The last point of getting high-quality sleep is to keep the stress level low, to be optimistic and happy. People may wonder why this is related to sleep quality, but Dr. Richardson noticed in her medical life that mental stress was one leading factor of insomnia. Take college students for example, those who came to her office wanting a treatment for insomnia tended to have things to worry, like exams, papers, relationships, etc. (personal communication, October 16, 2014) In Tsai and Li's study (2004), they deducted that the stress of adjusting to college life was one reason for freshmen students to have less sleeping time. 
Conclusion 
From the whole project it is very clear that people should pay more attention to their sleeping health. By sleeping regularly, eating healthy, exercising and keeping good mood, they would see an improvement in their sleep quality. Also people need to keep in mind that health is the foundation of every success they want to have, and sleep quality is coherently related to general health, physically and mentally. 
Reference 
Tsai, L. L., & Li, S. P. (2004). Sleep patterns in college students: gender and grade differences. Journal of Psychosomatic Research, 56(2004), 231-237. Retrieved from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022399903005075 
