Elvisargumentative essay 
Final draft 
11/16/15 
Main Topic In College 
Generally, higher education is useful for most of students who wants to be successful. Collage time would open your mind by some activity, so different culture would make you be more cheerful. It is the way to let you handle yourself, and you need to figure out some question by yourself, For example, to sign a contract with the owner of the house you live in. You may learn some habit to be successful in the collage. Is it necessary to study in collage if you want to be successful. Of course some people who are very successful were drop out off the school without collage time, but only few of the student who dropped out of school were successes, most of them were failed. Some body thinks collage time is a period of time to waste of time they have to spent lot of money but they may work after collage but not the knowledge you have learned. 
Collage is like a warm-up to the real society, makes you prepare for some challenge you do not know. In college, we have a great environment of studying. When your classmates, your roommate and people who you are living with are donating their time on studying, you will be impressed by them and be involved in studying. In this kind of communication you will learned how to choice the environment you live or study in. That would be more benefit to improve yourself when you life in an real society. These is an ability you can not buy or study by yourself. Some people think college kids always party all day, and waste time and money during the college. Even they think college is the beginning ourself of corruption. But I don't think so at all. I admit some people always drug or party all day, but this is part of our society. When we grow up we will met lot of temptation, if you really know that is not good you will keep away from those things. College is like a mini society, they are different groups people, some are party animals, some are hardworking guys. You could predict their future according to their life. Most hardworking guys will get a good job after graduation at least, if they met an inspirational flash or a mystic spell of luck, they will get success easily. 
College is a prefect place to make your dream come true. A lot of times, inspirational flashes appear to the front of our eyes, but we always miss them. We have lots of chance in our life to be successful. Many people can not hold at first time, but Failure is the mother of success.I have learned this in the my fresh year. People always have lots of reason to explain their failure. Just like I do|n't have enough people to help me, or I don't know some professional skill, but when we are at college, we will get a lot resources on the professional skill support. Jake Ma, one of the most famous businessmen in China, He said "the most important time in my life is collage time , and my friends. I can not be successful without them." He majors in English, but he is a man who were study very hard in management, his college buddy majors in computer sciences. Jake wanted to build Chinese yellow page, his idea is so prefect if we look at it now, through he didn't know much on computer science, but at that time, in his college his friends provide a lot of help to him, also he a good leader when he was in college, so he knew this society so well. If he did not study in collage,China's electricity may back ten years. maybe So many teenagers in college are also creating amazing things, that's why college looks so charming and attractive. 
College years will give you some sincerely friends. These kind of friends will help you to be successful, no one could be successful by himself. One of the king in the China said:"a log could not support all the world. College, a small society is the last time before you step in a real society. Some people think it is hard to make friends in college, because after graduation, everyone will be separated by the time and place. If you have not studied in collage, you may met some new friend, but that is more difficult to know them without study together and hangout together. This way will not met real friends, you need some special place and time to know each other just like collage. If you do not study in collage, you will not live in this situation. I think college life will be the most beautiful time in one's life. A group of teenagers chase dream together will be the most cheerful thing in the world. You spend time with college friends everyday, study with them , eat and have fun together. Many years later, this still will be a unforgettable memory. Also, your college friends will be separated at all kinds of careers. A successful man always needs help at some times. Minghong Yu, the CEO of New Oriental, when he established this school, he do not have enough money to start it, his college friends lended him some, and some friends took part in his company. Because of enough money support, his company grow up strongly and became famous in the world. He was one the most influential people in China in 2013. 
Before I came to Purdue, I took lot of question and doubt to here, but now I know what should I do, this is the most important time in my whole life, every day is. Everybody need this period of time to record the best time in their life, In my opinion the most important is not how much We can learn or how many people we can met. Collage is a small society the place you could learn how to protect yourself. I hope I could learn something really useful, The most important youth everybody would have youth and It past so fast, and collage is the most important time in every body's life. Do not be regret when the time pasted 
Reference 
Jacobs, Lynn F., Hyman, Jeremy S.(2013) 
PUBLISHER John Wiley & Sons DATE April 2013 
Professors' Guide : Secrets of College Success (2nd Edition) 
Jack ma collage experience: 
http://hzdaily.hangzhou.com.cn/hzrb/html/2008-05/13/content_174847.htm 
http://v.xdf.cn/1_362.html 
