GM foods on market today have more benefits than harms 
	My topic is about genetically modified (GM) foods. In our daily life, sometimes the food in our meals contain GM crops. When referring to the GM foods, different people have quite different points of view on them. Some people consider GM foods as a good source of food supply while others who oppose the production of GM foods would think they are harmful in a way. As a great number of researches and examples shows, the GM foods appearing in current global food market have more benefits than their harm to people because GM foods can play a role as a relative stable food backup under some extreme conditions as well as provide a new way for people to produce more foods to make the food distribution more equal worldwide. 
	In terms of the GM foods and products, people who stay against GM foods today have their own reasons which are generally in three aspects. First, they believe that most of he GM foods are engineered to be resistant to insects, thus there will be some toxicants inside of them which can be harmful to people. Therefore, they think GM foods has no benefits for people to plant. Secondly, they claim that GM crops will have a risk to the ecological environment that they grow up and may be a threat to the other plants around them. Thirdly, they suggest that GM foods should not be made into products and sold on food market currently because they think these genetic engineered foods are still in a stage experiment and they need more proof of safety. Although some of these oppositions towards GM foods above are true, there are many results from research showing that the positive effect can exceed the negative side of GM foods with persuasive evidence. 
In terms of the first opposition to the GM foods, admittedly, a certain amount of toxicants did exist in GM foods according to the researches and this kind of chemicals have a chance to cause reaction to some people. Nevertheless, the amount of the toxicants will not be that large to harm people in a severe way. They are engineered to be better resistant to weed, pest and diseases with those chemicals inside. Therefore, they can be more strong and tenacious to survive in some area that has extreme climate and environment such as drought and cold. One of the most convincing examples to support the opinion is that a group of researchers genetically engineered the corns to have a strong insect resistance and did experiments on them by distributing the corns to the farmers to plant. After the corns being mature, those farmers who has planted this kind of corns said there were usually a large number of corns eaten by pests in the past, but this time barely of them were hit by pests on the field. Additionally, they put the corns in their meals and found that the corns tasted even sweeter than before which made them feel glad to have this new species of corn (Munkvold 1999). Therefore, the GM foods are beneficial to people as they can provide foods steadily even in extreme conditions. 
	For the claim that GM crops will have a risk to the ecological environment that they grow up and may be a threat to the other plants around them, people who say this believe the GM foods will have negative impact the structural formation of the soil as they are like exotic crops. Nevertheless, the GM crops can actually help or have positive impacts on the environment on which they grow up. a time A group of researchers at Wageningen University in the Netherlands did an experiment on GM potatoes, which was to compare the growing conditions between GM potatoes and traditional potatoes. Later they found that on the fields the GM potatoes were growing better than the traditional species as they had the ability to gather more water and nutrients. More importantly, it also helped to change the soil formation somehow so as to improve the soil's salinity condition as a whole (Ewen and Pusztai 1999). This can lead to a better planting condition as the irrigation on with saline requires a higher quality of soil, which means the saline ground water will help the crops grow up (Beltr n 1999). From this we can see, the GM crops are actually beneficial in potential to the ecological environment around them rather than a threat. 
As far as people has concerned about the feasibility of GM foods product appearing in food market globally, the action of labeling out the GM products can be a good means to address the question. In fact, the GM crops that are already made into products are tested by professional researchers and companies, so they can be proved to have a relatively quality guarantee on safety. If the products are still in process of research or experiment, they would not be put into the market yet. More importantly, the benefits of labeling the products take place in many different aspects in people's life. First of all, the the GM product labeling is good for our health standpoints because people who are allergic to GMOs can know and recognize the GM products and be able to avoid those genetic engineering plants which may make them have allergic reaction. Secondly, from the side of companies, as they label the GM product with caution on it ahead of time, they would be able to avoid certain unnecessary concerns such as people's blame on them for the cause of allergy. Thirdly, by labeling the GM products, it can distinguish the GM foods with the natural foods, so the consumers can feel ease to make a choice instead of guessing and concerning what the foods contains in their meals. All in all, rather than preventing the GM foods being made as products and released into market globally, the action of labeling will open more possibilities for researchers to help and improve the GM crops to be a better food source in our lifestyle. 
	In conclusion, it is more helpful and beneficial to support the investment and development on GM foods today instead of prevent them from being sold or promoted. More and more people gradually know more about GM products and find that they have a lot of value of use. For example, GM foods can live in places under extreme climates and grow up more independently than traditional crops do. Additionally, they can have a positive impact to the surrounding ecological environment. By labeling the GM products, people can make their own choice on whether to have GM foods or not. All in all, the GM foods appearing on market today have much more pros than cons in a way on the field of food production and consumption. 
Reference 
Beltr n, J. M. (1999). Irrigation with saline water: benefits and environmental impact. Agricultural water management, 40(2), 183-194. 
Duvauchelle, M. (Jan 13, 2014). Pros and Cons of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) on the World Market. Science 50(2),31 
Ewen, S. W., & Pusztai, A. (1999). Effect of diets containing genetically modified potatoes expressing Galanthus nivalis lectin on rat small intestine. The Lancet, 354(9187), 1353-1354. 
Kuiper, H., Kleter, G., Noteborn, H. and Kok, J. (2001). Assessment of the food safety issues related to genetically modified foods. The Plant Journal 27(6), 503-528 
Munkvold, G.P. and Hellmich, R.L. (1999). Genetically modified insect resistant corn: Implications for disease management. APSnet Features. Online. doi: 10.1094/APSnet Feature-1999-1199 
