Argumentative Essay 
In modern society, there is hot topic that create a controversy, whether friends can influence college academic or not, a lot of agree with it , but some part of college students still do not admit it. In my opinion, i maintain that friends is the most important part of college life as well as they can affect other students. There are my reasons 
First of all, it is obvious that `hanging out with friends will take so much time, truth friends would like give time to finish your homework, review material and preview. In opposite, bad friends would like suggest you that study is not vital, they will waste your time to do other things. For example, i have a intimate who is so nice friends, once i wanted to drink with my other fiends even i had a quiz tomorrow, i hoped that he could joined with me, however, he stopped me, he said please do not forget you still have one quiz tomorrow, it occupies 20 percentage of your final grade, you have to review all material today, so could you take part in next time, after that, she accompanied with me to review until 1 o' clock , i was so moved. Imaging if i have a bad friend, he will stay a party with me, because she without quiz, she has the reason to have fun, what is the result, i will fail the quiz, and my final grade will become terrible. 
Moreover, good friends will never force you to do some dangerous things, However bad friends will do that. Take a truth story to be my instance, in california, two friends died in car accidence, then policemen invested the series of accidence, they found that the car owner compel his friends to drive his car at the top speed, unfortunately, they crash the street light pole, some people sum up the tragedy, a pitiful person pass away due to his bad friends. nevertheless, a good friend will advise your to do some correct things like study, playing basketball, swimming. meantime, they prefer to enforce your go to library for preparing a exam, or go to gym. As a result, friends definitely able to impact your academics. 
The last but not the least, as we know, friend is the indispensability, in daily life, friends will take significant roles. they can take care of you, give your suggestions, dove some hard questions, instead of invited you to go to some promiscuous party, provide you some kind of drug, although, some party is necessary, because people always need more friends, expand their relationship circle. For a case, in the beginning of the semester, i confused about my academics, i want somebody help, teaching me how to choose course, at that time i still hesitate about my major, she also give some so considerable advice. In my mind, if i miss her, i met others who would like introduce me to join some party, neglect my study. 
To put all into a nutshell, friends can alter you in every field. 
