Argumentative Essay, Draft 3 
04/23/2016 
Effects of taxes and duties on U.S car exports to China 
In nowadays, the United States and its major economic rival, China, constitute two of the most powerful economic components in the world. Both of them strive for winning more competitive advantages in the international trading market and make use of tariffs and duties as a method to protect local industry and defend foreign products. As each other's biggest trading partner, China and U.S. exchange all sorts of products, ranging from clothing to electronics, and even to cars. International Trade Administration pointed out that Car trading business plays an important role in the economy of both countries. However, According to economic critics, the high Chinese import tariffs placing on cars become the primary concern for America. There are a lot of discussions revolving around whether the Chinese high importing tariffs on car is appropriate and feasible. The previous research analyzed this topic extensively, highlighting the various narratives around this argument (Bradsher, 2011). While China claims that this measure helps protect its domestic car industry, International Trade Administration argues that this policy affects the balance of international trading and is unfair for its trading partners. But I think that this measure of Chinese government to protect its domestic car industry could affect the equal of the international trade laws. This paper will analyze specific reasons that make me disagree with China's high import duties policy and examine its negative influence on the international car business, the job market in the United States, and Chinese people's daily life. 
Firstly, according to Graeme Wearden(2011), China's capital imposed additional duties on cars imported from the U.S. into China in December 2011. In his article, the writer explains the decision to increase the duties was based on a claim delivered by China's Ministry of Commerce. This claim suggested that the low-price American cars flooding into Chinese car market has undermined the Chinese domestic automobile industry. Representative American car brands Wearden (2011) mentioned in his article are Ford, Chrysler and General Motors' Sports. Since the original cost American-made cars are already high, the final market price of imported U.S. cars, after including duties and tariff, are too high for Chinese consumers to afford. So the Chinese government makes use of the big gap between local Chinese cars and imported American cars as a good opportunity to promote local brands. But, many analysts claim that this measure of Chinese government to protect its domestic car industry could affect the integrity of the international trade laws, because this measure aims to impose unreasonable taxes on imports and exports to keep other traders out of the market. (Folson, Gordon, and Spanogle, 2015). It should be noted that China received extensive criticism from America and even the World Trade Organization (WTO) for increasing its duties on American-made cars imported to China. As much as China claims to have made this policy in good faith for its citizens, this policy is against the stipulated global laws. As leading economic countries, whose any trading behavior is observed by lots of smaller countries, both China and the U.S. should work within the set procedures of international trade laws and set a good example for countries striving to be economic powerhouses like them. 
	Secondly, the high importing taxes on foreign cars decrease the total number of cars imported to China. Firstly As a result of increasing the duties on American imported cars, more Chinese cannot afford to buy the American cars due to the subsequent increase in prices. Therefore, most of them opted to purchase the locally-made and more affordable vehicles. In this way, they assisted in reviving and enhancing the domestic market for cars and increased the local car marketing and the GDP.) The shrinking market in the world's largest automobile market, China, has caused a series of terrible outcomes in American auto industry. There is a national wide downsizing in American automobile manufacturing companies. A lot of American families with members working in car industry are affected, since they have lost their jobs or they are in danger of losing their jobs. Consequently, the lack of employment has led to reduced standards of living for many American families, a fact that will eventually affect the American economy negatively (Goodwin, 2014). The three car manufacturing companies, Ford, Chrysler, and GMS, which have been mentioned above, are the most affected. Chinese high duties and tariffs on imported cars affected the manufacturers and American families that relied on the car export business for income. In this case, China acted wrongly, and the reason or cause behind their actions was complicated. China should have evaluated the possible results that their actions would cause before going ahead with the increment. 
To sum up, there are much more negative effects of the high Chinese import tariffs than positive ones. In as much as the Chinese government defends its policy as a way to protect and promote its local auto industry, this policy not only limits the development of Chinese auto industry by excluding it from outside competitions, but also exempts Chinese people from the freedom of choosing foreign cars with a reasonable price. As a leading country in world economy, China should behave as an idol example for other small countries and adhere to the international trading rules. Also, this policy holds potentially detrimental influence on the development of international car business, because it triggers American auto factories to reduce their stuff sizes. In addition to that, the Chinese government should reconsider its high taxes and duties policy considering Chinese economy's high dependence on its exports, since this approach potentially stimulate other countries to impose a similar high import tariff on Chinese exporting product, which could fundamentally hurt Chinese economy. 
