Why Should Students Go to International Schools 
P5D3 
April 19, 2015 
Due to globalization, more Chinese students want to study abroad, and more western people want to go to China as well. According to the Sixth National Census in China, there were 593,832 foreigners visit to China in 2010(NBS, 2011). Some of them applied to be teachers in China. In the latest decade, numerous international schools were founded in China. These schools attract students by the AP/A-Level courses they provide and the foreign teachers. Many of the foreign teachers in international schools in China are from some English speaking countries such as the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Since the day that international schools became popular, the debate on whether students should go to international schools never stop. Studying in international schools is beneficial to those students who want to study abroad. Students can get used to the way western teachers taught, take part in more social activities, and prepare for college. However, international schools cannot provide enough Chinese history and basic culture to students. 
The tuition fees of international schools are always higher than normal schools. In China, a normal high school would cost 5,000 RMB per year; an international school would cost 70,000 RMB-200,000 RMB per year. Indeed, the cost is extremely high, yet I think the cost is worthy. Through out the recent fifteen years, most International schools are British and American style. They generally offer AP and A-Level courses for students who want to study abroad (Hayden, 2006). Students could truly learn knowledge in the western systems. They use the imported textbooks and learn all the things in English. Many courses in AP system are connected to the same course in college. A sufficient preparation before enter college could help students a lot in their future study. 
Foreign teachers are not familiar with the Chinese education system and Chinese students. Their teaching methods might hardly be understood and accepted by students. However, I think the main advantage of international schools is the teacher resources. Most foreign teachers in international schools use English as their first language. Obviously, students go to international schools to acquire original English teaching, foreign teachers are the best roles to teach in English. An international school teacher or educator is someone engaged in the education of pupils in schools other than their country of citizenship. The term generally refers to teachers who are teaching in private or independent schools. Faculties at international schools are usually from or certified by the standards of their country of origin (Savva, 2013). In most international schools in China, each course is taught by a foreign teacher and a domestic teacher. They have separate class but similar knowledge. Students would not only learn things in English but also can ask questions to their Chinese teachers to understand better. This kind of combination could definitely help students get used to English teaching system without misunderstanding of knowledge. 
Through the three years I studied in an international school, I learnt not only knowledge in textbooks but also acquired abundant social experiences. That is why I agree that international schools are worth to attend. In normal Chinese high schools, students do not have enough chance to do some social activities. I studied in an international high school. Except the course works, we had various activities. For example, my school held "Shark Tank" in our junior year-it is a program featuring students pitching their business ideas in order to secure investment finance from a panel of venture capitalists. Every student took part in this activity and used their own ideas to set up a virtual company. Through this activity, we utilized knowledge into practice, and had a preliminary impression about how to set up a company. I believe this kind of experience would help me a lot in my future career. 
I heard some claims that said students can also speak good English and get top grades in American universities. I cannot say the claims are wrong. However, students who graduate from international schools could easily get used to their college life in western countries. Indeed, speaking and listening are the most significant skills when students attend college. The first difficulty international students would faced is the understanding of lecture. According to the statistics of Education Department of China, there were 93,768 students go to American universities. More than half of these international students were graduated from international high schools. Some of my friends are from normal high schools in China. At first, they all had some trouble with understanding what the lecture instructor said. Since they never truly experience a lecture taught by an English speaker, they surely would have difficulties with listening. However, students who are from international schools would rarely have the same problem. They are already used to the language used in class. 
In conclusion, international schools in China are still a developing field. These schools do not have long history; they need to gather more experience. The students who want to study abroad are benefit from attending international schools. They can easily get used to the western education system, which is the crucial part in their college life. And they can also learn things from abundant social activities. As a student who graduated from international school, I strongly recommend the students who want to study abroad to go to international schools before they enter colleges. 
Reference 
The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) of China: http://www.stats.gov.cn/ztjc/zdtjgz/zgrkpc/dlcrkpc/dcrkpcyw/201104/t20110428_69407.htm 
Savva, M. (2013). International schools as gateways to the intercultural development of North-American teachers. Journal of Research in International Education, 12(3), 214-227. Institute of Education, University of London, UK 
http://jri.sagepub.com/content/12/3/214.short 
Hayden M.(2006). Introduction to International Education. London, SAGE Publications Ltd. http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=Vpazm E97j7o C&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=Introduction+to+International+Education&ots=8o U5x Rmtf C&sig=4k4Va MGcxdv Kv Yk FJjo ORGO-_0c#v=onepage&q=Introduction%20to%20International%20Education&f=false 
Why Should Students Go to International Schools 3 
