Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
April 15th, 2016 
	Benefits of Games 
Nowadays, game industry is one of the major industries in the world. Many arguments emerged from game industry. Conventional wisdom says that games have only negative effects. For example, some parents claimed that their children inducted to games, children learn bad things in games, or even children's attitude became bad after playing game. However, I believe that games have positive effects, such as motivation, solution for dilemma, and making people to focus easier. 
Games give motivation to people by stimulating people's interest and giving them fun. Though most people cannot connect education to games, games can give motivation even to study. Emin had a group of students to find effects of games to people (Emin, 2013). At the first of the experiment, students had negative attitudes, such as not focusing on class, or ignoring Emin, or having bad grades on science and math. However, after Emin compel them play math and science puzzle games, students' quiz grades get higher. Also, students tried to find books or asked to researchers to solve puzzles in the game. The result of this experiment illustrates that educational games help students have interest in studying, which make students to study voluntarily. Games also motivate people in routine works. Walking is important to people's life. (Matt, 2014) To some people, walking is necessary but tiresome work. Game changes this tiresome work to funny work. "WALKR" is the space trip game made by one of small indie game companies in Taiwan. By pace counter system in phones, this game changes 1 pace to 1 light year in the game. Based on these years, players can meet stars and aliens with funny concepts. Also, as they walk, they can get battery which can be changed to foods or used to get requests from aliens. By this battery system, players can provide with some foods to aliens who feel hungry or grant some delivery requests. As players play this game, they will walk more to play this game. The result illustrates the purpose of this game. Purpose of this game is to motivate people by presenting with fun in routine such as walking. 
Besides, games often give solution to dilemma. Humanity still have lots of dilemma while technology developed a lot. Common people who like to play game solved one of those dilemma which many researchers failed to solve (Nature, 2010). Structure of monomer protease is one of the problems that researchers could not solve about 10 years. To solve this problem, one of researchers suggest that getting some help from common people by making this program as games and ask people the solution. The game is "Fold it." In this game, players make the structure of protease. As players make more stable structure, they will get higher score. This simple game made amazing results. "Fold it" players solved the structure of protease in three weeks though researchers could not solve it about 10 years. 
Games make people to focus easier. Specifically, educational games make students attend lecture more actively rather than just listening what professor says. Watson divided students and teachers for groups to assemble data of educational games' effects (Watson, 2009). Watson recorded all the process of experiments. Watson focused on difference between when students normally studied and when students studied by games. Watson analyzed the effect of game in education based on these resources. When students just studied with textbooks rather than games, teachers failed to make all the students focus on the class whether they tried to get attention by joking or talking common sense, for example, football players. However, when students played strategy game in class, they started to focus class really well. All the students pay attention and discuss more actively in class. Students share the information and discuss to find better strategy. When students took exam after playing games, most of students got high scores at quiz (Watson, 2009). As students think this study is fun by educational game, they attend class more actively, which cause students to get higher grades on quiz. 
To sum up, as mentioned above, games have lots of benefits to the world or players, such as motivation, solution for dilemma, helping people to focus easier. People are motivated by games by their fun. Though it is something boring, for example, studying, games help people to feel interest by fun. People sometimes get solution for dilemma from games. Whether dilemma is hard to solve or not, common people make solution for dilemma by games. People are easier to focus by games. Games make people feel interest even in studying which cause them to focus easier. 
