Nuclear Energy as the Solution to Energy Challenge 
Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author's note 
Abstract 
Renewable energy, from my preliminary research has shown a drastically appealing future. After the identification of the potential of renewable energy in providing humans the solution to the energy challenge ahead, I conducted an interview with an energy expert, <Name> about his thoughts on the potential of renewable energy. However, I realized through a lengthy process of research that the limitations of renewable energy made it exceptionally hard to overcome. Hence, I have decided that while renewable energy technology is taking a long while to catch up to solving the energy challenges, my argument is that nuclear energy is the way to go. I have numerous researchers (Kharecha, 2013; Freed, 2014; Chu, 2012; Brook, 2014; Corner, 2011) supporting my argument. While both systems are flawed, I remain adamant that nuclear energy is the most realistic approach to tackling energy challenge. 
Keywords: Nuclear energy, energy solution, energy challenge 
Nuclear Energy as the Solution to Energy Challenge 
Introduction 
To harness nuclear energy, there are several reactors, which includes the nuclear fusion reactor. As this is a highly advanced technology, only certain countries across the globe harness energy through nuclear energy. Often times, the regulation towards nuclear energy reactor is so strict, that t takes a decade or maybe more to build one single reactor that passes the standards of the Nuclear Energy Association. There are several reasons, despite the complexity of nuclear energy that makes it an attractive source of energy. In comparison to all other forms of major energy provider, coal and petroleum, nuclear energy is able to generate similar amount of energy with significantly less effects towards the environment. As the population has increased by four times the original times of Christopher Columbus, the energy consumption, is increased by 10 times (Lee, 2011). With energy demand increasing at such rapidity, nuclear energy is the best source of energy to fulfill the demand. 
Nuclear Energy as the Solution 
Firstly, nuclear energy is a form of energy that stems from the fission of subatomic particles. The most common form of radioactive substances used is uranium. Upon the mention of nuclear energy, one cannot avoid many instances where deaths are caused by the meltdown of nuclear power plant, which causes radiation of extensive degree that in turn causes death and cancer. The classic example includes the Chernobyl and Fukushima incident. While nuclear power meltdown are often largely reported with adverse effects, scientific papers have concluded that the death caused by nuclear power, are far lower than the avoided deaths. According to Kharecha, (2013) "Globally, we calculate 4900 such deaths, or about 370 times lower than our result for avoided death ... About 25% of these deaths are due to occupational accidents, and about 70% are due to air pollution-related effects" (p. 1). Scientists were also unable to conclusively attribute deaths to radiation, even from the major accident, mainly Three Mile Island, March 1979, and Fukushima Daiichi, March 2011 incident (Kharecha, 2013). It has been clearly embedded in the mind of the population through the media that nuclear energy generation is to be absolutely avoided for the mass impact towards human population. However, mankind cannot ignore the probability that humans have avoided more death with nuclear energy generation. 
	The main reason why fossil fuels are so depended upon is due to the fact that generation of energy using petroleum is constant, as long as the supply of petroleum is constant. This feature is prominently illustrated as one of the outstanding trait nuclear generation has. While the same is arguable with using coal as the means of generating energy, it is already proven statistically that coal and gas generation are far more harmful than nuclear power. Fuel switching from fossil fuels to coal will cause even more severe climate condition for several reasons. The carbon capture technology is too immature to be depended upon as a dependent constrain to the emissions. The current usable natural gas, like shale gas consists of hundreds to thousands of gigatonnes of carbons, which causes major climate global warming (Pushker, 2013). This brings us to my previous conclusion of renewable energy being the solution. As optimistic as I can get, the gap between the ability of renewables to generate energy as compared to fossil fuels is nowhere near the actual growing demand. While there is a huge part of the human population going against nuclear energy generation, nuclear energy has the ability of generating energy without causing any form of climate change, besides being able to generate as much energy as coal. After almost 30 years of decline in students graduating as nuclear engineers, there are a sudden spike in this field, all because people starts recognizing the importance of nuclear generation of energy that is completely emission free, with huge potential (Freed, 2014). 
	One of the main concerns among the public would be managing the excess waste after the generation of energy from all the radioactive particles. To demand for absolute zero waste is impossible regardless of what form of energy there is available even right now. Hence, the best way is to make these waste recyclable, which in fact, is a technology currently holds a great promise. Ages ago, between the period of 1964 until 1994, the Argonne and Idaho National Laboratories, was able to create IFR, the integral fast reactor, that uses 99% of nuclear fuel, leaves so little waste that decays way below the background level of radiation, within 300 years, shutting itself down automatically, cools itself indefinitely even if the system fails or the facility is abandoned (Brook, 2014). With further research, I have fate that the technology can further be enhanced to manage the waste even better than it already is. Nuclear power plants are getting more advanced, with high regulatory standards before a nuclear plant is allowed to operate. The nuclear plant is constantly regulated and updated. The Department of Energy of United States are also supporting the research on the designs of nuclear power plants (Chu, 2012). 
	The widely analyzed topic regarding nuclear energy has a great emphasis on the public acceptance of exploring nuclear energy generation as the solution to our energy challenge. Public opinion matters, and may make or break the development of nuclear energy. Taking United Kingdom as an example, the public with major concerns over climate change and energy security managed to shift the energy policy in favor of nuclear energy as it is classified under low-carbon technology. However, many reports have shown how majority of people are reluctant to accept nuclear energy as the method to addressing the greater energy needs. Based on a national British survey, the public remains divided in opinion on embracing nuclear energy (Corner, 2011). 
Conclusion 
Energy generation using nuclear energy is just the alternative while searching for a better solution to the energy challenge. The reason that nuclear energy is the most feasible at the moment, is due to the fact that the gap between the amount of energy generated by coal and petroleum as compared to renewable energy is too far a gap, and to tighten the gap, will take up to several decades. The correlation between developed country and energy consumption proves that the more advance the country is, the higher the usage of energy. All across the globe, countries are developing, and with high development rate, the energy consumption is on the rise (Lee, 2011). While nuclear energy is able to supply the demand of energy, it is also able to do so without emitting carbon to the atmosphere, with resources that are able to supply energy for the next centuries to come. I am confident that nuclear energy should be developed to suit energy generation for human usage, instead of being left out as part of the energy solution, seeing that it has a huge potential towards the solution. 
