Is Two Child Policy worked well? 
In the past decades of implementing One Child Policy in China, the policy had caused more harm than good, such as the effect on children' mental health, pressure endured by the one child generation and aging society problem. Of course, at the same time, people in China had already recognize these problem and expert had also been working on these. In November 21, 2015, China government implemented a new policy called two child policy, which stated that all Chinese citizens are allowed to have two children. Since previously increasing people realize the negative side effect of One child policy, many people believed two child policy would be helpful on assuaging the consequence. However, I will debate that, two child policy is not a wise policy either, from both perspectives of morality and feasibility. 
One Child Policy and Two Child Policy are not simply policies to control population in China, instead, there are too many factors needed to considered. Actually, the policy itself restrict human rights in some way. Every woman should have the rights to decide whether or not they want baby and how many babies they want to have. It is very crucial that some women had been forced abortion for the One Child Policy. For instance, a case happened in July 2002 has been widely spread. A 23 years old mother pregnant with her second child in China, therefore she had been arrested and had been demanded $6000 fine for violating the One Child Policy. Her family cannot afford the fine, as a result, the officials forced her having an abortion. Basically, Two Child Policy made no difference from the One Child Policy. Both policies restrict women' choice of giving birth. Therefore, the perishing of forced abortion reflects the problem of One Child Policy and Two Child Policy. 
Some people may argue that, people should learn contraceptive methods to prevent abortion to happened. Chinese people sometimes are too conservative to talk about contraceptive issues. We should be more open-minded to teach young people about the importance of contraceptive. However, even contraceptive, is also a way to restrict women right on giving birth. There is no denying that the policy limited the women' freedom to some extent. Although national interest is essential, it still cannot be the reason to confine family's choice. 
What's more, Two Child Policy is the ideal situation imagined by government. After all, how many Chinese citizens are willing to have their second child nowadays? My point is that Two Child Policy would not be so efficiency. One reason is that, nowadays not many women would be willing to have the second baby even the policy changed. For the 70s generation mother, their age is between 35-45, which is not very suitable to give birth. For the 80s and 90s born mother, they faced the intense pressure on their career and financial situation. Although they are the at the right age of pregnancy, their personal life may not afford the second child. Especially because of the One Child Policy, parents valued children extremely high, so anything consumption about children are very expensive, such as daily uses, education and parents' timing. These high costs of raising child caused low demand to have second child in The young parents now in China probably would not choose to have a second child in the short term. Also, the 80s and 90s born mother are also One Child in their family. They may have already get used to the family structure that only having one child. They never feel the happiness with siblings, so that they won't view having multiple children important. For them, the resource in family is maximize, because there are no siblings sharing things with them. Besides, an 80s and 90s born couple need to take care of four elder parents, so having second child would be a heavy financial burden for them. 
Another reason is that it is already late to implementing Two Child Policy. For over three decades, the extreme imbalance of demography distribution, labor force and sexual rate in China has already the truth. Even the Two Child Policy is implement, how long would it take to recover these social problem? According to Hesketh, the population of age of 65 and above elders were 5 percent in 1982, 7. 5 percent now and approximate 15 percent by 2025. Hesketh et al., 2005, p1173-1174 These data indicate that the social problem would be recover in a very slow rate. 
To sum up, Two Child Policy is not a thorough solution to solve the demographic distribution. It actually did not change fundamentally from the One Child Policy. It is still immoral to restrict women' freedom on giving birth. Besides, Two Child Policy stated family can have two children, which did not mean family are willing to have the second child in the current society circumstance. Based on this, the Two Child Policy can only recover the social problem slowly. 
