The car or the driver 
Which element is the most important for a race car team now? The car or the driver. This might be an argument for many decades. People often says good driver cannot win with a bad car, and vise versa a good car cannot win with a bad driver. But as the time changes and technologies develop. This seem more bias to the car side. So now, the most important element for a racing team is the car, for the following reasons. 
The first reason is electronics assists become more important in the race. Since 90s, the race car starts to equip lots of electronic assists. This assist such as traction control, stability control, ABS, makes the racing car become more advanced. Drivers with this technology don't need to care too much about their foot and hand movement. Because the only thing driver need to do is move the steering wheel to an approximate directions and electronics will do the everything else. For example, Ayrton Senna is considered the most talented driver in the formula 1 history, he and his Mc Laren team won 1988, 1990, 1991 world champion. At that time everybody thought he will continue his champion for several years because there is no driver as talented as him in his era. But what truly happened is in 1992 season, Williams F1 team developed a car FW14B, which first time in the history equipped with traction control, ABS, and active suspension. With this electronic assist, FW14B can gain for speed on the straight line and have more speed in the corner. So apparently, Senna's winning legend ended to soon by a more advanced car. 
Second, the reason many manufactures compete in the motorsports is they want gain data and development in the racing in order to design a more useful road car, that's leads to more consumers in the market. When a team preparing for the next season, the most important thing they focus on is design a new car base on the previous season's data and this year's new rule. They often spend 3 months in the lab on the track to test the new car. They need to gain the data from different track and weather condition, and base on this environment, they do the adjust on the setting. And finally everything which have been tested and perform well on a race car will finally be used in their road car production. Here is an example, Porsche is a huge car company with a long history compete in motorsports, in 2009, Porsche unveil a transmission called PDK, which is a dual clutch transmission on their road car, 911 and 987. This is the most reliable and preformed transmission in the world. Many people think this is a new invention by Porsche. But actually Porsche start to test their first PDK in 1983 on their Porsche 956 endurance race car. So with their effort as a racing car team, they can develop their road car well, as a result they focus on the car more than the driver. 
On the other hand, if the team focus on the tanning of the driver, and put lots of money in driver development, they will lose a lot of resources finally. Because driver have contract with the team, they always choose the team which give them more salary. But if the team puts more effort in developing the car, the benefit for the technology development will be permanent and the resources will not be lost. From the history view, when a team design a good car, good driver will come. For example, in Formula 1, Sebastian Vettal is a good driver, he got training in BMW sauber team for 2 season, but he eventually changes to another team, Red Bull, which have better car, so he got 4 times world champion in that team. Sauber wasted their money by training a good driver for their opponents which have a better car. 
In conclusion, now the motorsports team focus more on the car but not the driver for the reason in technology, commercial, and financial. 
