Nowadays, more and more international student choose to study in US because of different reason. Some people may think US has better education, some people may just want to experience different culture. But study is not the only thing we should do. More and more student want to experience different things during our college life, and that's why more and more international student consider having internship. Some people even want to find a job in US because they want to have different working experience. But finding internship has never been a easy things for international student. Sometimes, it may be much harder compare to domestic student. 
First of all, some international student have language barrier compare to domestic student because they use different language rather than english. Having language difficulty may cause international student can express themselves well. Which is big disadvantage for international student when they are finding internship. In order to have a internship, international student need to introduce themselves to company when we are doing interview. If that student is not good at using english to communicate, that student won't be attractive to the company even if that student is really skillful. So I think international student need more train on communicate effectively with others. specifically, more communicate face to face with others. 
Secondly, a lot of International student feel psychological isolated. The original place of some international student come from have different culture with US. People speak different language, eat different food or act different way. It's easy for international student feel alone. When they feel alone, they tend to stay with those people have somethings in common with them. For example, Chinese student stay with Chinese student, indian student choose to stay with indian student. But this is bad for international student get into the society. Which means international student can't get involve the local social networking. But social networking can helps a lot on finding internship. A lot of people's first internship is introduced by their friend. Which means international student lost some chance of finding internship. 
Lastly, International student have VISA issue which make the situation even worst. Company need to pay for student's H1B visa in order to hire international student. When international student show the same quality as domestic student, company tend to hire domestic student. Sometimes the situation may turn even worst. Some company don't hire international student due to company policy or security problem, there's a lot of limited for international student. 
So because of the culture different, and the language difficulty, and US policy issue, international student have much less chance to find a job compare to domestic student. 
