Entrepreneurship Education at Universities 
	Entrepreneurship education is necessary for future entrepreneurs. Today, they number of young entrepreneurs has been growing rapidly. The support of education for entrepreneurship is more important than ever. Nevertheless, because of the development is so fast. The education system is not perfect. As a matter of fact, most entrepreneurship education is within the college of business schools (Volkman, 2004). But the needs of entrepreneurship education are heard from all schools and all majors(Shinner et al., 2009). So, entrepreneurship education should be provided to all majors at universities. 
	Entrepreneurship is a complicated process. Many universities have entrepreneurship courses and even entrepreneurship undergraduate majors in their schools of business. Different from traditional education, entrepreneurship education focus on learn by doing ("entrepreneurship education,"2011). Systematic education provide students a better mindset of entrepreneurship process. More and more students take entrepreneurship as their major or manor to get a better chance to be success. However, this is not fair for those who want to be entrepreneurs in other majors. Entrepreneurs can be from any majors and backgrounds. Many technology students, engineering students and medical students have the desires of start their own business in the future as well. But it is very hard for them to get entrepreneurship educations. They want to start their own business but lack of entrepreneurship education. Therefore, entrepreneurship education is essential for all students intend to be entrepreneurs, not only just for business students. 
	Purdue University did an great job of showing how an entrepreneurship education program can benefit all students on campus. <name> , an adviser in Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program at Purdue, introduced this great program during an interview. Before the program started, Purdue heard a lot of voice from all different majors that they want to learn about entrepreneurship. So when Purdue launched this program in Fall 2005. It aimed to provide entrepreneurship education to all majors. The other reason Purdue made it a certificate program rather than a major or manor is Purdue do not want to extend too much of students' time of study. The program provides students with all kinds of great opportunities like the study-aboard program and internship. In order to complete the certificate, students are required to complete two core courses: Entrepreneurship 200 and 310, two option courses and one capstone course or experience. The requirement is reasonable and acceptable. Students can get the necessary education. At the same time, it is not too much work so students can stick on their own plans of study and graduate on time. 
	So far, The Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program has accomplished a huge success. It became one of the largest multidisciplinary program in the country. The students in this program has grown and diversed. In 2013, 22% of the students in this program are from the college of technology and 15% of them are from the school of engineering. Only 17% of the students are from the school of management. The statistic shows again, how important is entrepreneurship education to students from other majors. Right now, the program is working on partnering with EPICS (Engineering Projects in Community Service) and other organizations on campus to get more students involved in the program. the Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program at Purdue definitely made a great example of how to fit entrepreneurship education of students study plan. 
	Entrepreneurship education can make a big difference in the way of becoming an entrepreneur. Thomas Pittz (2014) came up with a five steps model of experiential entrepreneurship education. The model includes -improving personal skills, selecting the business the person likes, developing a marketing system, and building a network. These five steps are necessary for entrepreneurs. Systematic education provide opportunities for students to develop their personal skills, have mindsets of what an entrepreneurship process is like and really think about which direction to choose in the future. As a bridge of schools and careers. Universities have the responses to provide such opportunities for students. Universities are places to prepare for future jobs. For students intend to be entrepreneurs in the future, universities should provide them necessary education. Purdue university made an successful example of giving students from all majors to have equal chance to learn about entrepreneurship. The certificate program is a great example universities can learn from. But I am sure there are other ways to balance students' study plan and their desire for entrepreneurship education as well. Hopefully in the future, all students can have the chance to learn about entrepreneurship as they want. 
