Kendo, a fallen culture 
The origin of Japanese sword could be traced back to thousands years ago. It was initially created to fight in battle. At that time, kata, a series of form, was widely practice by samurai. However, as the progress of civilization, and the development of kendo, kata has desolated. Kata is the only thing that connection between past and now. Forgetting kata is forgetting history and traditional culture, and kendo will lost its status as a symbol of Japan. In order to maintain kendo's value, people should pay more attention to practicing and understanding kata. 
In the book written by Tokeshi, Jinichi says, "when watching the film clips of performances by earlier teachers, differences between the original and current kata are apparent."(148). He also clarified that there were around two hundred kinds of kata in old time. (147). Kata has changed, or lost is a more proper way to describe its status quo. The power of mind is crucial in kendo, with a stronger mind, he or she can maintain a highly concentrating status for long time which is the key to success. As a part of mental training in kendo, kata teaches people how to prepare for a fight, how he or she control his or hers mind during a fight. The only reason of old time that samurai can fight for a day or two is that they practice kata every day. While the sword techniques improve, their mind is getting stronger as well which made them undefeatable. 
Jinichi Tokeshi is not the only one realized that kendo is losing its inner value. During the interview with Sensei Imafuji, a six-dan kendo teacher, he also pointed out that Japanese and the world is ignoring kata. Kata is useful in kendo competition, because it provides a clear view of how to react to almost every possible way of the attack of opponents. Kendo's attacking technique is not as complex as before. Because those skills were either lost or revised which is the same situation as kata. Those supervisors of All Japan Kendo Federation is trying to simplify the treasure from old time, and everyone accepted this "improvement". Kendo can attract so many people around world is because its charming techniques of attacking and defending which are endanger. People have to realize the importance of kata right now, otherwise, the technique that have passed down thousands year will all gone. At that time, kendo will be just a tedious bamboo sword competition. 
Neither for practice mind nor body, kata has its own culture value which contain Confucianism Buddhism and other eastern wisdom. Kata is a combination of the essence of eastern philosophy. For example, in the first technique in kata, one have to kill another. But it is not all about killing, after swung sword cutting through opponents, one side have to show his or hers respect to the dead person. It seems like nobody cares about what each movement means in kata any more, people just performed each techniques without thinking its deep meaning. Philosophy is the essence of kata and kata is spiritual essence of kendo, what an irony that an essence lost its own value. Ignoring the inner meaning of kata will make kendo just a sports that aims at wining. Once everyone forgets kata, kendo is not kendo anymore, because the most valuable spirit has been forgotten. And the only way to prevent this is to practice kata more. 
As some is promoting kata, still some says kata is useless. One instructor I have been practiced with said that don't practice kata unless you need to take a promotion test. He explained that kata is not efficiency in modern kendo competition. It is true that kata may not be the best select, but kata is not just a thing that used for test. As mentioned before, kata is the symbol of kendo rather than a tool. Also the criteria for kata is not so clear, the only measurement are judges' own opinion which is not enough to evaluate his or hers techniques. 
History sometimes like a sieve. It pass the valuable thing and stop the worthless. What has been kept must has its own value. So there is no good for people to interfere this process what will only make it worse. Kata is what can explain kendo best. It is not overly to say that kata gives kendo a special status, neither martial arts nor sports, in modern society. In order to keep kendo and to improve kendo, kata should never be forgotten. 
Work Cited 
All Japan Kendo Federation. "The History of Kendo." All Japan Kendo Federation. n.d. Web. 02 Nov. 2014. 
Hiro Imafuji. Personal Interview. 11 October 2014. 
Tokeshi, Jinichi. Kendo: Elements, Rules and Philosophy. Honolulu: University of Hawai'i Press. 2003. Print. 
