Introductory paragraph 
Considered as a controversial issue, the development trend of mobile phones has aroused vast attention in society during the past decades. Some would assert that mobile phones are really convenient, so they will replace computers and televisions in the future, while the idea that mobile phones will remain their same status as what they do at present because mobile phones still have some disadvantages is still held by some others. I strongly incline to the view that the dominance of mobile phones will stay the same in a few years due to its security problems, operating systems, and mobile phones hardware technology. 
1st paragraph topic sentence 
Security problem existed in mobile phones operating systems. This is a big obstacle for mobile phones to be the substitutions of computers and televisions. Affected by the security problem, mobile phones will not be the safeties electronic device in life or work. 
2nd paragraph topic sentence 
Inconvenience of existed mobile phones operating systems is another reason why mobile phones cannot replace computers and televisions. Much work cannot be done by using mobile phones due to their not well established operating systems in which many work applications are not able to be operated. 
3rd paragraph topic sentence 
The high cost of mobile phones hardware will significantly prevent users from using high-performance mobile phones. Although some high-tech mobile phones hardware which can assist mobile phones to do more diverse tasks have been invented, the extremely high cost of this hardware will reduce affordability of users. 
Refutation sentence 
Some people may think the high mobility of mobile phones will lead to replacement of mobile phones in electronic market. However, they ignored the fact that the high mobility will result in low-performance at the same time, causing the terrible user experience. Therefore, mobility is exactly an advantage but it is also a disadvantage. 
Conclusion topic sentence 
Took all the facts mentioned above into account, I believe that potential security problem, not well-rounded operating systems, and high cost of advanced mobile phones hardware will not enable mobile phones to occupy the market shares of computers and televisions. 
