P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 10, 2015 
The true effect of Gaokao 
Gaokao as a popular topic has been discussed for many years because of its importance. It is a college entrance examination of China, and it also seems to be one of the most important events in students' lives. As turning points for millions of students, in today's society there are plenty of debates about Gaokao. Due to its high-pressure, regional difference and long preparing time, most of argues directly to negative sides of Gaokao. Does Gaokao work for every student? Does Gaokao have actual effect for people for lifetime? However, I have the opposite view of Gaokao, Gaokao is practical and influential, and it has long influence on student's life. What people see is how terrible the pressure of Gaokao could be, but I suggest that people should pay more attention to the effect of Gaokao for students' future. 
As one of the toughest tests in the world, Gaokao has long stoked conversations about its reliability. Actually, Gaokao has scientific reasonable design for the Chinese situation. This exam which used to evaluate school children has the power to shape not only a nation's future, but the character and development of the children who take them. The students who would take this exam could be changed to more tough and more aspirants; because they know there is a huge and drastic competition between millions of students just like them. Also, this high-pressure examination gives our students chances to improve their abilities to crush resistance. Those personalities that Gaokao offered could be used in the future when those students entrance the society. Those students can have high working efficiency and they can work under extreme pressure. The article "Are Your Kids Smart enough for China's Toughest Test?" introduced Gaokao in the view of a top student Tao Jones which performs well in Gaokao and has deep understanding of Gaokao in China. This article told us without Gaokao, you have to idea to beat the children of the rich. Gaokao is turning points for every student and it can change students' life tremendously. 
When we talk about Gaokao, there must be some voices that disagree with my idea. In addition, they believe that Gaokao persecutes Chinese Students' happy life and kills the creativity of children. Also, the influence of Gaokao could be temporary because after release this pressure. Students will be lazy and lose their passion for study. However, what we have to understand is Gaokao was designed basing on our national situation. Gaokao still is the fittest test in China because of the situations which have large amount of people and drastic competitions of country. What Gaokao could offer is not just a piece of paper that record wonderful grade, but also student's future jobs opportunities. Gaokao honed students' tough mind and a brave heart in the harshest of all environments. Boring and repeated practice, gave students ability to let their self work efficiently. Those influences of Gaokao could be life-long because it truly makes an impact on students' personalities and it could benefit students for a long time. 
In conclusion, sometime we cannot judge one thing in a single view. Although Gaokao is tough and time-consuming, its benefit still could be life-long and can change personal life tremendously. Gaokao exists in our world in different ways and it is practical and influential, and rare events can compare with Gaokao's influence. 
