Argumentative Paper: A Bright Prospect of Nuclear Energy 
As a clean and sustainable energy source, nuclear power has contributed enormous energy to the world. However, the destructive result of nuclear accidents caused a lot of debates around the feasibility to maintain and promote the using scale of nuclear powered power plants. In my opinion, the risk of using nuclear energy is not comparable to its potential. As a matter of fact, most concerns to the nuclear risk are able to be solved, and to develop nuclear energy is the best way for people to deal with the energy problem. 
The most general reason for those who urge to stop using nuclear energy is the grievous result of nuclear accidents. The most severe nuclear accident of Chernobyl killed ten thousands of people, evacuated hundreds miles of land and people have no method to handle the radioactive ruin. However, most of them have ignored the fact that all three nuclear accident are caused by mis-operation, not by the dangerous nature of nuclear reaction. The Chernobyl accident was caused by an operator who confused by the data of the indicator, started an emergency shut down and triggered a huge explosion. Similarly, the Three Miles Island accident was also the fault of an operator who have unintentionally admitted water in to the instrument air system which can only sustain air inside of it. Although the Fukushima accident was not directly related to any single operator's mistake, it was still attributed to the lack of permission to turn on the emergency pump. Moreover, the designee of the Fukushima Nuclear Plant didn't thought about to defense against the tsunami caused by an earthquake for a nuclear plant very close to the beach, but only added shockproof equipment which was not designed to prevent huge waves. 
Secondly, nuclear energy opponents often argue that people cannot eliminate human-made mistakes by regulations and training, because everyone make mistakes unconsciously at some time, which is unpredictable and unpreventable. What they failed to notice is that the manmade accident, Three Miles and Chernobyl, are happened decades ago, when most operations are manually made. However, the rapidly developing computer-based technology has prevented such accident from happening. Programmed processors and artificial intelligence can analyze data and do correct operations as humans could, but they never make mistake. The Fukushima accident, as mentioned above, was caused by a fault of its design. People wanted to save money on safety equipment, but they lost far more than the cost to secure the plant. Nuclear plants should be designed to resist the heaviest disaster that was possible to occur, or can at least persist until people quenched the furnace and brought away all dangerous materials inside. With a solidly defensed design plus an automatically controlled operation system, nuclear plants can eliminate any possibility of accidents. 
Another reason to promote nuclear energy is its extremely low carbon dioxide emission and low cost. Although nuclear opponents use the high carbon emission of nuclear fuel extraction to support their point of view, the total carbon emission of a nuclear plant is far less than the emission of a similar capacity coal plant. According to statistics, the average carbon emission of nuclear plants is only 16 grams per kilowatt, 40% of it come from uranium extraction, 35% come from decommission and only 1% is from operation. Compare to coal plants, whose average emission is 870 grams per kilowatt, nuclear energy is a very clean energy source. Moreover, although the cost of generation of nuclear plants is almost the same of coal plants, it saved a lot of pollutant cleanup fund which cost millions of dollar every year. 
The most extreme people even says that once the risk of nuclear generation is not completely eliminated, nuclear power should be forbidden among the whole human society. This is a too conservative opinion. In the history of science, most inventions that strongly affected the modern society were borne from uncountable accidents. Many evidences can be found in every single field that can proof the fact that people must sacrifice a lot in the exchange of new technologies, however, the return is enormous. It is exactly the same as the current status of nuclear energy, we can learn from our mistakes and make it better, then it can solve the energy problem, stop emitting pollutants to the atmosphere, so we should not give up such a great chance in fear of its risk. 
Most people who want to forbid nuclear energy also have a misunderstanding of the result of a nuclear accident. They overestimated the effect of radiation from an accident and depict it too horrible. However, the result may not as severe as their thought. First, a lot of articles and reports use the disabled babies born near the ruin of Chernobyl as evidence, but they forgot to compare that to the nature disability rate. Actually the infant disability rate 20 years after the nuclear accident is not too high compare to the nature disability rate. Secondly, they often describe nuclear accidents as nuclear bombs to give readers a deeper impression. However they are completely not comparable. The power of an explosion of a nuclear plant is only one-twentieth to one-thirtieth. Not only is the direct explosion, the radiation of a nuclear accident is also tiny compare to that of a nuclear bomb, because the reaction scale is much smaller and a nuclear bomb doesn't have any cover to protect the surroundings. Even the effect of a nuclear bomb take only less than half a century to recover, how a nuclear accident can affect an area for thousands years, like those opponents say? Just look at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, where was affected directly by a tactical nuclear bomb, now people have reconstructed the city and thrived there. Additionally, local people are continuously returning to the area of the Chernobyl coffin, where is also full of healthy animals and plants. 
In my perspective, nuclear energy is not as horrible as people think about it. We will eventually master it as we did for all other technical revolutions, if we can solve any problems that were detected, spend money on the defense system of nuclear plants and be prepared for unexpected disasters. The various benefits brought by nuclear energy is worth effort to make it safe. Even at the worst situation, an accident is not the end of the world, its negative effect to the earth can be cured in decades. Therefore, we should fear nuclear energy not but instead do our best to apply it for the humanity. 
