11/21/2015 
Argumentative essay 
Future dominant power in China- "Makers" 
	These years as our society develops by leaps and bounds, there appeared a bunch of people who stayed together in a workshop, consuming their spare time creating meaningful stuffs by applying sophisticated technology. In China, we call this kind of people "makers". Makers' appearance in China perfectly corresponds to people's demand for endless creativity and efficiency. Their products not only make our daily life better, but also, to some extent, give us desire to move on. Their intension grows beyond just obtaining fulfilment. Instead, they start to appeal to more people to join them, giving out positive energy, which brings the market as well as the education system into a benign cycle. In a nutshell, the trend of creating stuffs and building companies in Chinese society now and the willingness of Chinese people to gain further advance technology and science would contribute a lot to makers' steady development in China as well as their dominant power in Chinese society, which might be another milestone of change in Chinese history. 
	One of the biggest reasons why makers are able to grow further in China is that their fast development mostly relies on industrial configuration of companies, which transfers from manufacturing to innovating now. At before, Chinese people were experiencing low creativity and were short of products, so that most people got together building up huge amounts of factories and worked hard to produce as much as possible. At that moment, Chinese people didn't have the ability and time to learn advanced knowledge or create new things because of the dilemma they were in. Nevertheless, nowadays we have already been the biggest manufacturer in the world, owning many well-known companies that devote themselves into producing and assembling. We have enough resource to sustain our production chain and therefore enhance our capability to evolute. Makers' appearance gives China chance to transfer from a manufacturing country to a creative country, which is vital for our future. There are some counterpoints why makers cannot go further in China. One of those points is that some people announce that we should go back to innocent, back to the simple days. They say that our developments have already done great damage to the environment. What's worse, natural resources, like rare metal and mineral substance, have been largely expended. So they believe that we have to stop from further exploiting, or we will die out from over exploiting. Nonetheless, this cannot even be a suggestion for us to stop developing because development is what saves our world. Without it, we might live in an easier life for a short period, but we have yet to face that day when we run out of our resource. What makers do are to come up with better ideas to increase our efficiency in producing and improve our daily lives. Undoubtedly, the advantages of makers outweigh their disadvantages; and in the near future, makers will become a dominant power in Chinese society. 
	Another aspect that supports makers' evolution is their great nature, including creativity and perseverance. When we talk about makers, we must talk about their inseparable features. Most of them have the characteristics of creating and hardworking because only after they gain the determination to make a thing successfully can they perform their best knowledge in science and technology and be highly creative. As more and more young people are drawn by this "job", these helpful natures deeply take root in people's mind. Lots of high schools in China add courses to teach students how to make stuffs and "makers culture". Students will learn how to make plans before starting to do their works and they will be guided to learn how to be creative and resourceful. These skills will help them become good makers in the future. We know that young kids are the future of the country. When they grow up, there will be more excellent young blood injecting into the power of makers, which will not only elevate our education level higher, but also help makers to further develop. More importantly, "maker movement" could become a milestone in Chinese history. In the long river of history, each industry revolutions has specific figures that lead the whole precess. With their overwhelming advantages and power, they could get rid of the old ideas and exchange to more correct ones. The fact that they have a great impact on Chinese society, attracting more and more young people to join this trend; and the Chinese government also launch several policies to help them thriving. Consequently, makers' own personalities contribute to their thrive in China by propagating positive energy. In the future, they can be a predominant power and a milestone in Chinese history for their great contributions. 
	Many people argue that no matter how impressive the "maker movement" is or how great the influence it has, makers are still not strong enough to stay in today's society, just like a firework which won't last for long. This argument might be true for some of the rising companies or competent workers in China, because every year there are mountains of new stuffs that happen in China, so not all of them will be held throughout time. However, when it comes to makers, this statement is no longer valid because different from firework, makers are more like a burgeoning power which is just what we need to make our world better. As there are many supportive factors, like the transforming trend of Chinese companies and the desire of improving the education level, "makers movement" will grow larger and larger until one day when most of us achieve happiness. Then there will be something new appeared. 
