14 November 2015 
Outline 
College Students Choosing Majors: Personal Interest Is More 
Important Than Careers 
Claim/Argument: 
	It's true that college education could significantly change people's life in multiple dimensions, and it also could determine the future career for a person. Although many people are pursuing higher education for the economic benefit of a career, the financial payoff should not be primary factor for students choosing majors. In contrast, personal interest and development should be the dominate elements when choosing majors. 
I. Students should choose their majors based on their interest and personal development. 
a. There is an old saying that "interesting is the best teacher". 
i. With interest in some areas, students could persist in what they are studying and deep develop themselves in their subject of study. 
ii. Personal story about learning play instrument when I was young. Forcing students to study something that they do not have interest may not have the expected result. 
b. Without interest in what major they are pursuing, students may perform poorly on the academic study and eventually result in changing majors and drop out of college. 
i. There are research studies show that over 60 percent of students in college change their subject of study at least once. 
ii. According to Purdue CCO that "up to 80 percent of students who entering college that they are uncertain about what they want to major in." (Purdue Center for Career Opportunities) 
iii. Changing majors or uncertain of majors too long could eventually result in delay of graduation for students. (Interview with Prof. Powell) 
II. Students should not be too focusing on the related careers or jobs when choosing their majors. 
a. The focus of the economic benefits side when choosing a major can be misleading to many students. 
i. Often when students are making decision on majors, they would be attracted by the potential payoff or salaries of a related majors. Those majors may not be their interest or a suitable major for students. 
ii. When students are looking at the average potential salaries of a major, the information and data might be too specific, which lead it to be unreliable and misleading. 
1. "But we still need to be careful about the averages. For example, about the business major, which vary from $43,000 to $98,000 annually" (Romero, Considerations Are Many When Choosing a Major). 
2. Professional schools or department should also not drag student too much attentions on the potential average salaries. (Personal experience when attending profession schools' presentations) 
b. It is hard to find majors that both fit students' interests and careers, so students should first consider interest rather than careers. 
i. With personal interest in certain areas, many career opportunities could be found. According a studies, that only about 30 percent of college grads had a job that was closely related to their major. (Washington Post) Therefore, it's fine that your major might not related closely with what you want to for careers. 
ii. Even students get into the high payoff careers, many years later they might find out "this job is not what I am interested at all." (Interview with <name>) And they might rather do something else. 
III. Students at Purdue should fully utilize the resource and advisor faculties to develop their interest for majors and career opportunities. 
a. The Exploratory Study program allow students to have 2 years as "undecided" students and fully explore the majors at Purdue. 
i. Advantage: the program will give students flexible time to taking some professional major courses and let students have better understanding for what they would study for in certain majors. 
ii. Disadvantage: But the responsibility of keeping students themselves on the right track mostly fall on students, which might result the possibility in delay of graduation to students. 
b. For students who are interested in Engineering majors, the FYE (First-year Engineering) program will be the opportunities to explore the Engineering schools at Purdue. 
i. There are 9 required courses in FYE program, which will be accepted to every Engineering professional school at Purdue. Students would not worry about the delay of graduation. (Interview with <name>) 
ii. During the two main course of FYE, there will be different professional schools come and present about their schools' opportunities and information for the majors. 
Conclusion: 
	Choosing a major should be a rational process with considerations from different degrees. Being too focused on the potential payoff of the careers might hurt students back in a long term. College education does not only provide students professional knowledge and skills, but also lead students develop their interest and personalities. 
Reference: 
	Shatkin, Laurence. "Review College Majors and Related Careers." Panicked Student's Guide to Choosing a College Major How to Confidently Pick Your Ideal Path. 1st ed. Indianapolis: JIST Works, 2011. 81. Print. 
	Romero, Aldemaro. "Considerations Are Many When Choosing a Major." The Edwardsville Intelligencer. 14 Sept. 2015. Web. 17 Sept. 2015 
	Dill, Kathryn. "The Bachelor's Degrees With The Highest Salary Potential." Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 27 Aug. 2015. Web. 17 Sept. 2015. 
	Plumer, Brad. "Only 27 Percent of College Grads Have a Job Related to Their Major." 	Washington Post. The Washington Post, 1 May 2013. Web. 15 Nov. 2015. 
