Speaking of the motivations of studying abroad, researchers and socialists have conducted numbers of research and studies analyzing and synthesizing this topic. The results that drew from the studies are quite similar; however the motivations could be self-determined or involuntary. Which category of motivation plays the most important role in students' lives of studying abroad has been fiercely debated among researchers and scholars. Shown by the article, "Motivations and Decision-making Processes of Mainland Chinese Students for Undertaking Master's Program Abroad" , published on Journal of Studies in International Education, personal factors are the most prevailing responses provided by students. Furthermore, another research paper published on International Journal of Intercultural Relations suggests that self-determined motivations to study abroad are also beneficial for students' adaptation outcomes. In summary, the impact of self-determined motivation on students' experiences of studying abroad is more significant than that of involuntary motivation. 
Self-determined motivation has significant effect on decision-making process. Self-determined motivation, defined as factors that enabling students to make decisions to satisfy their personal needs and interests, includes students' interests to immerse into a foreign culture, and desire of self-improvement. For students who are interested in exploring new cultures, improving themselves, and advancing themselves after high school or universities, studying abroad satisfies their needs properly. The best way to fully-understand a culture is to go to that country, living with local people and immersing in the culture. Furthermore, it is also a good way to learn a foreign language. Besides, living and studying in a foreign country independently are not easy for an individual. By overcoming communication barrier, homesickness and loneness, students will grow stronger both mentally and physically. Also, for students who cannot receive good education in their home countries, studying in countries with world-class universities abound, like the united states and the united kingdom, will provide considerable rewards for students who are pursuing advances in some specific fields. According to Motivations and Decision-making Processes of Mainland Chinese Students for Undertaking Master's Program Abroad, published on Journal of Studies in International Education, the research conducted to discover the motivation of students studying abroad shows that the result that most students chose to study overseas because of cultural enrichment, personal growth and personal improvement. In other word, students' own willingness to study abroad is the leading factor to their final decision. 
Involuntary motivation, however, also has some effect on students, but are somehow temporary and negative. 
Sometimes, like those self-determined motivations, involuntary motivations could also be the main elements that propel decision. Involuntary motivation usually includes factors come from family and society. For instance, China is now undergoing economic reform. The situation in China is not too optimistic. The lack of employment, bad living condition and unfair treatment in the society are all obvious factors that stimulate decisions of studying abroad. Apart from that, some students attend foreign universities because of the wishes of their parents. In those cases, the involuntary factor plays a role during the process of making decision. Since they unwillingly made their decision of studying abroad, those external factors came from families and society could negatively affect their lives in a foreign countries. "The role of self-determined motivation and goals for study abroad in the adaptation of international students", an article analyzing the role of motivation in students' adaptation of foreign culture states that the non-self-determined, involuntary, decision negatively influences the adaptation of students into a new environment. Students motivated by involuntary factors are more likely to conserve their original stats, which means maintain their lifestyles and avoid challenges in their lives. On the other hand, self-determined motivation including the desire of self-developing promotes one's aspiration to enhance himself and thereby encouraging him to get involved in the new environment and fulfill his dream. The experience of my cousin and my friend is the best example of this theory. My friend, who is 2 years older than me, by her parents' wish, have studied in the United Kingdom for two years. She thinks her life in UK is tedious. She forces herself to attend classes and listens to the teachers in class. Although she gets fair grade without striving for it, she dose not gain joy. On the contrary, my cousin has a great time in the United States. He is a graduate student, who furthers his academic journey in Johns Hopkins University. After he graduated from Beijing Normal University, he chose to apply for an American University for his graduate education. As an undergraduate in Beijing Normal University, he majored in environmental science, which is Johns Hopkins University famous for. Without hesitance, he applied for Johns Hopkins University and he got accepted. Two years in Johns Hopkins, he not only achieved great success in academic field, but also made a lots of new friends. Sometimes he posts interesting photo on internet, I can tell that he is happy studying and living in the United States. 
Personal need is usually the beginning of an story. To satisfy our needs, we take actions. In this case, curiosity of foreign culture, pursuit of high quality education, desire of self-enhancement are personal needs that lead to a decision of studying abroad. After we arrive, the desires continue to influence our behaviors, reminding us of our original intention and encouraging us to rapidly involve in the community. Therefore, self-determined motivation is not only the decisive element while students are making their decisions to study abroad, but also an assurance of striving after they actually start new lives in a foreign country; apparently, it is remarkably influential. 
