Introduction 
As medical technology improves an emerging technique that can detect human's inclination of illness, resistance and dependence of drug through genome and proteome. This new technology is called, Molecular Diagnostic (MDx). MDx is usually applied to patients for the early treatment for cancer. 
The beginning for me to pay attention to this area stems from a 3 week fulltime internship I took 2 years ago. Taking responsibility of marketing assistant, I am in charge of communication with potential customers, such as the chiefs of research institution and hospitals. After learning the basic principles in molecular diagnostic, and exchange ideas with some professionals, I learned there a lot of benefits of applying molecular diagnostic into medical field and project those products into market. However, when I was communicating with potential customers, few experts replied to say that their institutions would like to try free samples into experiments, no mention into clinical uses. Some agents also holds a hesitant attitude about this. 
This triggered me to issue a question: Is it really necessary to promote Molecular Diagnostics into market? Except benefits brought to patients and treatment, what are other factors considered by researching institutions, governments, healthcare providers, even productions themselves? In this paper, I plan to combine methods like looking up and discussing clinical influence and marketing developments. After considering all these points and make an evaluation between pros and cons, there would clearer sense and outlook of promotion of MDx. 
Methodology 
In order to progress this research, I began to study based on scholar articles and conducted an interview with expert in this area. The articles I referred is Evidence of Clinical Utility: An Unmet Need in Molecular Diagnostics for Patients with Cancer , which sketched general situation for molecular diagnostics to be put into clinical utility -- the standpoint of entering market. As for the article Strategic Review of Molecular Diagnostic by Sicentia Advisors LLC April 16, 2010, it clarified key factors for this new technique toils forward, and illustrated what the promotion of molecular diagnostic can bring along with increasing profits and needs to the business. 
	Moreover, in belief of I can gain more information about current situation about market of molecular diagnostics from experts, I also interviewed David B. Whyte, who is current vice president of a molecular diagnostic technical company where I took my internship. He completed B.S in Chemistry - University of Michigan in 1980, Ph.D. in Biophysics and Molecular Biology from University California, San Francisco in 1988, and is engaging in this area more than 20 years. I emailed to him and introduce my basic information, and ask for his permission to have an interview without recording. 
Application are and Current Situation 
	Molecular Diagnostics is a technique that can detect human's inclination of illness, resistance and dependence of drug through genome and proteome, is usually applied to treatment for cancer, especially targeted therapy, which involves both pathology detection and pharmaceutical drug. The related products include kits and assays that detect mutations and measure gene expression in cancer tissue. Besides, productions also provide or sell professional guidance and service, such as the instructions for the kits and assays, professional technicians, and data comparisons during examine process. As a result, molecular-diagnostic centered companies target customers to healthcare providers, academic institutions, and pharmaceutical companies, and patients.	 
The business procedure for productions is hard. Firstly, some health providers are only to purchase sparse amount of products to take experiment and academic research, rather than put it into application on patients in order to benefits more people. This mainly results from different tests for the same analyses are poorly standardized, thus resulting MDx lacks of guidelines for evaluating clinical utility. (p1430- 1431, Clinical Cancer Research March 15, 2014 20.) Secondly, as Dr. Whyte said during the interview, researches in extensive areas play essential roles in developing and promoting molecular diagnostic. It not only enables the new technique to get into higher level in profession, but also help to discern needs from customers and thus conducting a better promotion into market. However, the cost of research is very expensive in MDx exploration, and most of them need a long term - usually more than 5 years to earn the cost back. Some institution could not afford those research for such long time, and so give up. In addition, some health providers are only to purchase sparse amount of products to take experiment and academic research, rather than put it into application on patients in order to benefits more people. 
Technique Development 
Though the situation for promoting molecular diagnostics is not all favorable. However, from the aspect of producers, the trends of MDx marketing is very optimistic. 
Standing from the point of clinical utility, MDx test can provide fast turn-around test on-demand testing in DNA and RNA mutations, giving physicians critical and accurate information at every stage of care cycle. (p39, Strategic Review of Molecular Diagnostic. Sicentia Advisors LLC April 16, 2010) 
As for selling and profits, because of the promotion by producers and experts, more and more related productions and treatment methods go to the patients, such as the FDA and SBA. For example, the Kori drug are taken about 10 million dollars in Syria (provided by Ph.D. Whyte), and producers and agents can gain about countable profits to support to run the companies. 
From Strategic Review of Molecular Diagnostic. Sicentia Advisors LLC April 16, 2010, the World Wide MDx Market, the fastest growing segment in IVD (In Vitro Diagnostics) grew 15% during 2008 to 2013, among which MDx became the part that grew fastest. (p.15). For producers and related institutions, MDx has premium average price per test range from 40 dollars to 4000 dollars, which is higher than techniques of microbiology and routine chemistry and immunoassay. This means MDx is profitable and valuable for investors. Some people hold contra-argument that the expensive price of per test is one of essential factor to be difficult to expand market- it is too expensive to be affordable for patients. However, considering the whole medical system, according to Dr. Whyte, patients can receive treatment with medical insurance, which can reduce patient's economic pressure. 
Problem and Backfire 
As experts advocating the benefits can bring along with patients, there are still some problems during the promotion of MDx. In the clinical, MDx has below disadvantages (p1430, Clinical Cancer Research March 15, 2014 20): 
Availability of multiple assays and methodologies for one target with a lack of material and method standards 
Lack of complete understanding of the clinical setting or scienti c knowledge of the disease parameters by the developers 
Insuf cient demonstration of analytical and clinical validation before commercialization 
Inadequate clinical trial designs or infrastructure needed to support assay implementation 
Lack of direct evidence that use of the assay leads to improved patient outcomes over other available solutions 
Lack of agreement among stakeholders on de nitions and evaluation of evidence of utility 
Moreover some people believe that molecular diagnostic has similar biological principles and relative negative influence like stem cell technique. However, Dr. Whyte believed that it actually depend on what people are looking for. Every technique has its pros and cons. Molecular diagnostic is only narrowed into help patients to have right therapy. The basic knowledge about molecular diagnostic should be taught to more people through different channels, such as the website www.mycancer.com. 
As for backfire received from users received a conservative answer from interview of Dr. Whyte that producers definitely received some reply about the backfire, and so experts still need to constantly get improve, to be more accurate, and test in a shorter time, or other things. 
Conclusions 
As all information mentioned above, Molecular Diagnostic has lots of benefits in clinical application and marketing investment. Thought there are still some problems and difficulties when popularizing molecular diagnostics into market, the promotion into market is necessary because it is a way to expand patients who need to be benefited, and the producers could also gain profits through developing this new technique which has a promising future. 
