P5D1 
Why do people attend college? Normally, people argues that purposes of attending college are for learning more knowledge to get a job after graduation, and cultivating more friends to enlarge their social circle. However, a point that they often ignore is that people need to keep a healthy lifestyle and maintain Body Mass Index (BMI). When it comes to figure, especially for female, overweight women are potentially less attractive than women who are at good BMI. When it comes to health, being overweight, they are more likely to suffer from some serious heart diseases and cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, sufficient physical activities and appropriate diet are critical for students to keep optimal BMI and a high quality of life. 
People argues that they have a really perfect diets and sufficient physical activities schedules, since they are thin enough. They do not have to consider health issues, let alone figure problems. However, I strongly disagree with this idea. Since they attend college, which means they start to leave controls of their parents and to be independence and self-discovery, forming their future life habits including dietary patterns and physical activity schedules. When they are in high school or even younger, they can barely choose food, since their mothers are cook and they have to eat what they mothers cook. In sharp contrast, the situation gets reversed. In order to be convenient, they spend most of their time on fast food, leading to eating less fruits and dairy drinks. Additionally, they will eat their most desired food as much as possible and eat their least desired food at least as possible, which highly lower their food diversity, leading to some health disease. Furthermore, the fact that people are not overweight can solely prove that they have a wonderful diets and sufficient physical activities before, which does not mean if they are always following their own ideas, they can still keep fit. Lastly, for people who lack physical activities and eat lots of meat but little fruits and dairy drinks is still not overweight, they are just going through transitions from their adolescence and adulthood and fat will contributes to building their body. In this situation, they will not get overweight. However, once they get into their adulthood and they start to accumulate their fat, which eventually results in overweight. Similarly, Dr. Jeffrey Jensen Arnett (2012) classifies the ages of 18-25 as "emerging adulthood", and during this period as a time where young people transition from adolescence to adulthood, people begin developing views and behaviors, which will carry into adulthood. Thus their diets and physical activity schedules developed in college hugely and lastingly impact their future health. 
Some People believe that they do not need to pay much attention on diet and physical activities, which not only affect them to eat delicious food since they need keep strict plans but also influence their social life since taking physical activities takes lots of time. This argument is not believable at all. First of all, doing physical activities together or studying how to make an effective diet plan is one of ways to broaden people's social circle. Additionally, they might be able to realize some amazing methods to lose weight by cooperation. Secondly, even with a strict plan, they still have various choice and it is true that they have to give up some delicious food they prefer, but at the same time, they maybe obtain some new tasty food by trying new eating plans. However, if people still follow the terrible diets and are not willing to do many physical activities, a major issue related to overweight is its relationship with chronic disease development. Most notably, overweight has been associated with an increased risk of the development of hypertension, dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, and cancer, specifically colon, breast, endometrial, and gallbladder cancers(2000). Since people have to face so many potential disease in the future, it is more probable that they even spend much more time on that, which lead to having to follow a stricter plan and combine exercise and medicine together to lose weight and keep health. In either way, you have to follow eating plans and exercise plans. Why not just follow plans as early as possible to avoid those disgusting medicine? 
Within the discussion, it is manifest that different excuses for not following diets plan and physical activity plan can be proved wrong, and those can bring people approaching to disease or even death. When people are overweight, it is important to make friend with people who are also overweight. In this way, they not only broaden their friends' circle, but also can push the other to strictly follow plans, which are beneficial for both sides to lower their BMI. Moreover, people should not be deceived by their eyes that they currently have a normal BMI. What they need to pay more attention is that they need to compare their plans with some standard plans offered by official department, practice plans and perfect their plans. At the point, university have to take responsibilities. The goals of universities is that combined with knowledge of college students' weight status can aid college of nutrition department and sports department to develop appropriate nutrition and physical activity education to fit the needs of college students (2008). Then students are able to have a correct exercises and diets plans, which not solely lowers or maintains their BMI in college life, but also helps keep in a right track to be in an optimal healthy status in the whole life. 
Reference 
Bish, C., Blanck, H., Serdula, M., Marcus, M., Kohl, H., & Khan, L. (2012). Diet and Physical Activity Behaviors among Americans Trying to Lose Weight: 2000 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System**. Obesity, 13(3), 596-607. Doi: 10.1038/oby.2005. 64 
Brunt, A., Rhee, Y., & Zhong, L. (2008). Differences in Dietary Patterns Among College Students According to Body Mass Index. Journal of American College Health, 56(6), 629-634. Doi : 10.3200/JACH.56.6.629-634 
Lowry, R., Galuska, D., Fulton, J., Wechsler, H., Kann, L., & Collins, J. (2000). Physical activity, food choice, and weight management goals and practices among U.S. college students. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 18(1), 18-27. Doi: 10.1016/S0749-3797(99)00107-5 
