Modern physics research and public opinion 
Purdue University 
Modern physics research and public opinion 
Abstract 
The following paper discusses problem of negative public opinion of modern physics. A strong negation of researches continue and fear of new discoveries may lead to stop of the progress. Analysis of probable sources of this point of view will help to find possible solutions. 
Introduction 
Physics opens a door to the world of the future. All new technologies, which so significantly improved our lives, are impossible without new discoveries in science. Lightbulbs and blenders, computers and the Internet, spaceships and nuclear power plants-everyone use these products created by scientific progress. Although, some groups of people, even ones who follow modern lifestyle, think negatively about physics and feel afraid of new discoveries. In this paper, I try to analyze reasons that form this point of view and possible ways to improve public opinion, as well as ways to stop irrational fears. On one hand, people might be conservative because of some psychological reasons, like religion or fear of unknown. On another, mass media has a great influence on public opinion and serves as primary source of scientific information for most of people. Additionally to analysis of reasons, it is important to remember about people's scientific education level that influences their attitude towards science (Evans & Durant, 1995). 
Mass-media coverage of science 
As stated by Prof. <name> (personal communication, October 22, 2015), "the press does a good job in reporting scientific discoveries." Some TV shows and magazines represent not only high-quality scientific information, but also do that in interesting for public way. The problem is that these sources are not very popular among the people. Talking about other articles, survey show that, in opinion of scientists, journalists do not understand material well and do not work enough on its representation, because they serve the purpose of sensation representation (Hartz & Chappell, 1997). 
Press starts to write about physics only in outstanding situations, like annual Nobel Prize giving, some breakthrough investigations or dangerous for humanity phenomena. Journalists exaggerate truth trying to make materials more interesting. Together with lack of knowledge and absence of review by scientists, it creates low-quality articles. For example, Krupp (2009) says in his article about the Doomsday 12/21/2012: "Most of what's claimed for 2012 relies on whish-ful thinking, wild pseudoscientific folly, ignorance of astronomy, and a level of paranoia worthy of Night of the Living Dead." Because public gets more used to overblow of danger in press, humanity may miss real danger. Particularly, survey displays that people think of global warming as environmentalist propaganda without real proofs (Leiserowitz, 2005, November 15). In the research article on the global warming understanding by public, Palfreman (2006) gives possible solution: "[J]ournalists should expand their narrative horizons: to include not just the facts about the risk in question but also how people feel about the risk and why"(p.15) 
Religious reasons 
Another possible reason that makes people think negatively about scientific progress and physics is religion. As stated by Prof. <name>, "We are the only species who asks the question 'Why?'" (personal communication, October 22, 2015). Humanity always was curious about everything around them. Ancient people looked in the sky and wondered, what stars and the Sun are, why they follow certain paths. What influences harvest, who created this world, what is the purpose of live. The professor said that in the past religion gave answers to all these questions, so now people are accustomed to them. They do not want to listen to new explanations given by science. 
Scientific education and funding 
A funding of research project directly depends on public opinion. According to Prof. <name>, government chose projects that are relevant for public. They use people's opinion and general predictions as main criteria for resource allocation. The reason of this orientation is that scientists who can serve as experts in modern research usually do not choose careers in politics. Popular among public projects, like Mars expedition or a cure for cancer, get the most funding. 
The research results analyzed by Evans and Durant (1995) show that scientific knowledge makes people's opinion more consistent and less manipulated by form of information representation. From 2009 responders, ones who know more about the science think more positively about it. However, they also choose to support 'useful' and general scientific projects instead of non-useful or morally contentious research. At the same time, less knowledgeable responders were less consistent in their choices, even if they are generally positive. Thus, better scientific education of people may lead to right directions of future research, as public will understand what it need. 
Reality of the danger 
As our world is full of dangers, people have got accustomed to many of them. Reports about annual car accidents do not create strong feelings, while news about plane crash or manufacturing accident gets wide public response. These concentrated in space and time dangers are the reason of most fears. Physics research centers perfectly fit this category. Additionally, people do not fully understand what happens inside of them, what creates even more worries. However, modern levels of safety control tend to zero the risks and scientists try to convince people about this. Awareness of possible risks is shown in article by Johnson and Baram (2014, February 10). Because of update of Brookhaven National Laboratory's Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider ("RHIC") may lead to connected to high-energy dangerous consequences, a special government commission will analyze all possible risks before project start. 
The only current research that might be dangerous is nanotechnology. Prof. <name> said that potential harm of nanoparticles on human's cells and environment was not completely investigated. Because of the small size, these particles may stay in organisms for a long time with unpredictable consequences. However, they nanoparticles already have a wide spread in cosmetics. Survey results from article by Cobb and Macoubrie show that most part of the people have not heard much about nanotechnology, so they do not know a lot about it. Majority of the survey takers fell hopeful, not worried and not angry about nanotechnology. 
An example of real danger for the humanity is current biological research. Spread of viruses or bacteria because of an accident will be catastrophic. Additionally, Penzenstadler and Young (2015) write that the US biolabs do not provide enough information about safety rules violation and technical accidents to the government. Some of them even conduct researches without approval and permission. 
Positive propaganda? 
An important point is not to go too far in creation of positive opinion. One particular example is propaganda of idea of "atoms for peace" in the Soviet Union. From initially military research, scientists and propaganda started an idea of peaceful use of nuclear energy. They said about its benefits as fuel of the future, cheap, clean, and totally safe. All these legends were destroyed with the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl. By the opinion of Josephson, "The tongue-in-cheek slogan symbolizing this disaster, 'Chernobyl-the peaceful atom in every home,' became the essence of the Red Atom." Additionally, they did not overcome problem of dangerous radioactive waste. 
One may ask, if there was no totalistic emphasizing of only positive points and opposite point of view was allowed, would this catastrophe happen? However, in my paper I said mostly about objective representation of truth, which appears to be positive, and better scientific education of people. In my opinion, solution of these problems in future also prevents not only from over-negative reaction, but also from too positive consideration of the research. 
Conclusion 
To sum up, fear of unknown and religious reasons with improper work of mass media sources form the negative opinion. The best solutions for this problem are review of scientific articles in public sources and rise of level of people's understanding of science. Another important point is to continue improvement of safety control in research centers with analysis of conducting research consequences. 
