	Egyptian pyramids were built about four thousand years ago. Constructions of pyramids are surprising in terms of their size and precision. As Benno Artmann says, "the side of the base square is 230. 4 m with an error of about 10cm."1 Undoubtedly, building pyramids required certain technology and massive amount of work. Generally speaking, pyramids helped Pharaohs to preserve their bodies. However, what were the motivations for vast builders? They not only worked for emperors but also for physical material (food, clothes and housing) and religious belief. Although some archaeologists state that slaves were forced to build pyramids, laborers also participated in the construction of pyramids. Pyramid builders were given medical care when they were injured. They had good living conditions as the result of their work; they also buried materials in order to use them in their afterlife. According to archaeological evidence, Egyptian workers who built the pyramids were not only motivated by physical materials but also motivated by their religious belief. 
There is one theory saying pyramids were built by slaves, and those slaves were forced to build the pyramids. As Virginia Morell mentions in her article, "the Greek historian and explorer, Hawass continues. Herodotus visited Egypt around 450 B.C.. About 2,000 years after the pyramids were constructed, and was told that 100,000 men had been forced to toil as slaves on the great pyramid of the Pharaoh Khufu."2 The slave theory might be started by the Greek historian. In addition, slaves were tortured in ancient Egypt. Vladimir Novokshchenov writes that "Among the most common beliefs are those showing a pharaoh smiting captured enemies with a club, pharaoh feeding legs of slaves to his lion and slaves with twisted arms behind their backs."3 Because Egyptian slaves were abused in daily life, archeologists thought that slaves were forced to build the pyramids. 
Because of inadequate evidence, slave theory has not been well proved. Even if the slave theory is true, evidence shows that Egyptian workers were also involved in the constructions of pyramids. In The Ancient Pyramid EBook, the authors write "examination of workers' skeletons shows that extensive medical care was given to the injured."4 Medical care for all pyramids builders could result in many construction budgets. Therefore, slaves who do not have any dignity at that time were unlikely to enjoy this "privilege". Instead, medical care from injuries was available for workers. Furthermore, in the newspaper, Thomas Maugh mentions that other evidence of worker theory is "scales and weights that were used for measuring portions of the barley and wheat seeds used to pay workers every 10 days", which shows that at least part of the builders were paid workers. 5 
	Egypt workers of pyramids were motivated by physical material as well as religious belief. First of all, workers were paid, and given additional benefits from the construction. The Ancient Pyramid EBook mentions that archaeologists find residences around pyramids that belonged to workers, and they were given good food sources such as prime beef. 6 Also, [name], the associate professor of [department] , said that most of population of Egyptians were farmers, and they needed to pay taxes for their government. 7 More than that, the book also mentions "most workers returned home after their time 'was up', assured that their labor was necessary and would be rewarded. Each would gain a place in the afterlife, close to the god-king they served in their lifetimes."8 According to the statement above, not only Pharaohs but also workers of pyramids have afterlife, and such religious belief was part of the motivation for pyramid builders. To sum up, workers have both physical and spiritual motivations. More importantly, two different motivations were combined. As Virginia Morell writes in her article, "Many workers were also buried with jars of beer. They didn't want to be without it even in the afterlife, so they often put in one of these jars. " She also writes "it is their ideal, how they want to be in the afterlife. So they want to look their best and wear the best clothes and jewelry."9 According to Dr. [name] , in the Egyptian religion, Pyramids builders wanted to keep everything they needed with them so that they could live for afterlife. 10 Beer, clothes and jewelry were parts of the physical materials that workers wanted, and by saving materials for afterlife, they allowed physical and spiritual desires to interact with each other. 
The religious belief is a powerful motivation for Egyptian workers. Egypt workers of pyramids were willing to build pyramids even when they suffered. One particular theory, James Edwards mentions that using the surfaces of pyramids as ramps could be a labor-saving method, but the labor still needed to exert an average of 68 kilograms, which is "90 percent of the body weight of a man weighing 75 kilograms (165 pounds)."11 That is fair to say, no one in a group, no matter slaves or workers, generated a smaller force, or others would need to generate an overloaded force in order to produce sufficient force as a total. Therefore, it can be said that pyramids builders all suffered from intense labor. As a result, they had health problems. The Ancient Pyramid EBook says mentions "X-ray examinations of skeletons found near pyramid sites show that workers suffered from severe arthritis, back pain, broken limbs and died at an early age, all the result of excessive hard labor."12 Those skeletons are the same objects that had the medical care. In other words, they were the workers not slaves, and they had health problems from sustaining large forces. The religious belief is a strong motivation not only for Egyptian workers, but also for humans in general. Nowadays, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) is willing to sacrifice human lives to start wars with many other countries just for what they believed. 
In conclusion, workers participated in the construction of pyramids, and they were motivated by physical material as well as religious belief. Despite the fact that they provided hard labor and suffered from health problems, they were still willing to build pyramids. They had superior living conditions as they worked; at the same time, they believe the construction of pyramids would benefit them in the afterlife. Furthermore, they combined physical desires and spiritual desires as they saved materials for afterlife. One of the human nature is to pursue happiness. In modern days, Judaism, Christianity and Islam have different teachings about the way to heaven and hell, which is also about the afterlife. Although Jews, Christians and Muslims have different believes, they all follow their doctrines which help them to have a better afterlife. Why are they trying to go to heaven? Because one of human natures is the pursuit of happiness. 
Bibliography 
Artmann, Benno. "The Shape of the Great Pyramid." Edited by Roger Herz-Fischler. British Journal for the History of Science 37, no. 134 (September 2004): 355-56. Accessed October 8, 2015. http://search.proquest.com/docview/215729958?accountid=41521. 
Edwards, James Frederick. "Building the Great Pyramid: Probable Construction Methods Employed at Giza." Pro Quest Research Library, April 2003. Accessed October 10, 2015. http://search.proquest.com/docview/198436758?accountid=41521. 
Maugh, Thomas. "Unearthing Egypt's `Pyramid City' Archeology: Discoveries Are the Strongest Evidence of a Town Where Artisans and Farmers-not Slaves-built the Tomb of Pharaoh Cheops. Findings Are Discussed at Symposium in Los Angeles." Los Angeles Times, July 22, 1991, Home Edition ed., PART-A; Metro Desk sec. 
Morell, Virginia. "THE PYRAMID BUILDERS." National Geographic 200, no. 5 (November 2001): 78. Accessed October 12, 2015. Master FILE Premier. 
Novokshchenov, Vladimir. "Pyramid Power." Civil Engineering, 50th ser., 66, no. 11 (November 1996). Accessed October 13, 2015. http://search.proquest.com/docview/228530926/Record/D13A382D49E34559PQ/5?accountid=41521. 
"Pyramid Plans." In The Ancient Egypt Ebook, edited by Edward Caruso and Katharine Sturak, by Olga Fox and Mark Fox. 
1 Benno Artmann, "The Shape of the Great Pyramid," ed. Roger Herz-Fischler,British Journal for the History of Science 37, no. 134 (September 2004), accessed October 8, 2015, http://search.proquest.com/docview/215729958?accountid=41521. 
2 Virginia Morell, "THE PYRAMID BUILDERS," National Geographic 200, no. 5 (November 2001), accessed October 12, 2015, Master FILE Premier. 
3 Vladimir Novokshchenov, "Pyramid Power," Civil Engineering, 50th ser., 66, no. 11 (November 1996), accessed October 13, 2015, 
4 "Pyramid Plans," in The Ancient Egypt Ebook, ed. Edward Caruso and Katharine Sturak, by Olga Fox and Mark Fox. 
5 Thomas Maugh, "Unearthing Egypt's `Pyramid City' Archeology: Discoveries Are the Strongest Evidence of a Town Where Artisans and Farmers-not Slaves-built the Tomb of Pharaoh Cheops. Findings Are Discussed at Symposium in Los Angeles," Los Angeles Times, July 22, 1991, Home Edition ed., PART-A; Metro Desk sec. 
6 The Ancient Egypt Ebook, Pyramid Plans. 
7 [name] , in the discussion with the author, October 30, 2015. 
8 Ibid. 
9 Virginia Morell, The Pyramid Builders. 
10 [name] , in the discussion with the author, October 30, 2015. 
11 James Frederick Edwards, "Building the Great Pyramid: Probable Construction Methods Employed at Giza," Pro Quest Research Library, April 2003, accessed October 10 2015, http://search.proquest.com/docview/198436758?accountid=41521. 
12 The Ancient Egypt Ebook, Pyramid Plans. 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
2 
