interview paper 
P5D1 
Study abroad or study in your own county 
Studying within one's country or abroad tend to have advantages and dis advantages. People who would like to work within country would be considered firstly, it becomes pertinent for them to choose to study within their country. For those who go abroad, the system may mean that people get a better education since some countries may spend more money on building education system than their own country which means students get an opportunity to experience a better education model. In my view, I prefer study abroad. 
In order to demonstrate my opinion I invite my friend who has experience of studying abroad to do an interview. My questions is why you choose to study abroad. My friend told me there were numerous reasons for his choice to study in China. The motivation to go China might have been the culture. He told me it would be a great chance to experience another kind of culture in another country. With time passing by, he realized much more benefits. His reservation for the Chinese way of life changed as he realized that much of the things in the daily lives become a part of things that people have in their culture. From a resource paper "I learned a lot more about myself in that one semester than I did in the three and a half years in my home school because of the unique space in which I learned, experienced, and spent exploring another culture" (Dwyer 2015 p.2). It's clear to prove my friend's words. If students can get a chance to go abroad it would not only be a chance to experience another culture, but also a great opportunity to develop students' characteristics which will impose a deep influence on them. 
During our study life, some students who have been tired of same education model in their country. However study abroad provides a good chance for these students to feel another education system. For instance, in America, a student can free to change your major during first two years when you want to change, which is not allowed to do in China. After I have experienced the American educational system, I think this kind of system would be better for students, as students can choose what they are really interested in to learn. Just like my data resources told us "87 percent of students said that study abroad influenced subsequent educational experiences." (Dwyer 2015 p.3) If students can go abroad and get these good influences I think it would be a good resource for students' future development. 
Last but not least, after I have read my paper resources, "Longer stays mean greater benefits." (Dwyer 2015 p.3) left a deep impression on me. This paper tells us if a student stays overseas longer, more benefits he will get. Indeed during my interview with my friend, he told me that he has been staying in China for three years. During first one year, he didn't change a lot. However, in second and third year he learned some healthy living habits from his Chinese classmates which would be benefit for his entire life. In fact, there are more than four benefits for students to go abroad. I think the most important thing is that you will change your attitude about things around you and even the opinion the world after you have this experience. Using my own experiences to be example. Before I go abroad, I really hate to do some science lab such as chemistry and physics stuff. I think it's not only hard for me, but also boring and useless. However, when I take chemistry course this semester, I find it's really interesting because I can change sentences on book into real laboratories by myself. After these laboratories, I can understand the chemical equations and solutions more vivid which would be very useful for me to get a good grade. 
With the development of society, students have chance to study abroad. From my opinion, I think it's beneficial for students' all-round development. 
