The relationship between TOFEL and academic success 
Why most of the universities in United Stated required international students to provide their TOEFL score for application? Is this score means everything for a student? Such kinds of questions boarded me a lot when I was preparing to study abroad. As an international student I know how hard it is for us to get a high grade in TOEFL, so when I heard that the minimum requirement for most of the universities in United Stated had increased I seriously shocked and I want to know the reasons. And after I searched the Internet and made an interview with the director in Purdue admission office, I found out the reason: TOEFL score is actually somehow positive related with students' academic behaviors. 
Based on the resource that I found before, I support that TOFEL score has non-ignorable relationship to academic success. The TOEFL score requirement for international students at most universities using specific TOEFL score are to determine student eligibility. Also, College and universities generally set their own TOEFL scores that denote a student's eligibility for admission; in general, these vary between undergraduate and graduate programs. In fact, after all the research scholars had done, they do found out that there was significant correlation between TOEFL scores and GPA, course completion, and retention rates and other academic behavior. In addition, according to the article Relationship between TOEFL score and academic success for international engineering students, this research did a lot of methodological data collection, also including data analysis. So the result is based on the data calculation. The researcher did a lot of survey to find out the difference between the "university overall GPA" and the "engineering student GPA". Also some of other college students like college of business and college of arts & science. Although the relationship between TOFEL and "engineering student GPA" is smaller than we thought, the major that needs writing or speaking skills, is tightly related to TOFEL. Moreover, the GPA of students of college of business and college of Art & Science are quit relatively with TOFEL. 
A Canadian Psychological Association compared the academic behavior of students who have different TOFEL score. It shows that students with higher TOFEL scores perform better in academic. I really agree with this statement. TOFEL score can be evaluate the applicants' English ability. There is an example of my friends, Alice and Jim. Their major is communication which needs students have higher speaking and writing skills than others. Alice gained an A in com114's course and could understand other courses' contents easily, because her speaking and listening grade of TOEFL are 28 and 27. Such high grades shows that she is able to speak and listen without barrier. On the other hand, Jim worked hard and final gained 21 and 19 in speaking and listening. Although he reached the minimum requirement of TOEFL in Purdue, he is still difficult to understand what his professor saying. Listening section in TOEFL is similar to real universities' courses, so such a simulation can greatly test the students' abilities to understand the courses. Moreover, the speaking section is related about topics of daily life and opinions of academic knowledge. Jim could not express his view clearly when he was taking TOEFL test. It is normal that he cannot communicate with others or perform well in his communication course. In conclusion, their TOEFL scores tightly connect with academic behaviors. 
In summary, no matter the information I found on newspaper, website, and interview, the TOEFL score has tiny relationship with students' academic behavior in university. The reason why university require TOEFL score is to make sure international has basic English abilities to understand when they are taking classes and finishing homework. The reason for increasing TOEFL score is the increasing number of international students, so universities need to find a way to choose their students. Actually not the TOELF requirement increased. There are many requirements like essay also increased, but they are just not so obvious like "score" increased. Nevertheless, a student with higher TOEFL will definitely feel easier when they get into university, even though the advantage is not evident. 
