15 November 2015 
East Meets West: Different Prevalence in Chinese Traditional Music and Western Classical Music 
Claim/Argument: Considering the difference in prevalence between Chinese traditional music and western classical music, I argue that these two genres' musical attributions, musicians' efforts, historical and cultural background result in this gap. 
I. Although musicians' from China try hard to make contribution on Chinese traditional music's promotion domestically and overseas, the lag in prevalence is still inevitably remained and is a complicated problem to be concern. 
a. This issue is might due to some intrinsic factors, such as its musical characteristic and attributions. 
b. This issue is also resulting from some extrinsic elements, for instance, historical background. 
II. To figure out why there is popularity gap between these two musical genres, the first thing needed to do is to consider what are the authentic Chinese traditional music and western classical music. 
a.	Most people have preconceptions and bias on the definition of Chinese traditional music and western classical music. For example, they often refer Chinese traditional music is a musical form performed by Han people using ancient instruments. Also, most people believe that western classical music is Middle Age music, like church music. 
i. Chinese traditional music is divided into five categories: folk song ballad, national instrumental music, folk art forms and local opera music. 
ii. According to Wikipedia, Western classical music refers to a music incorporates both religious music and secular music, originating from western society. 
b. Considering their historical origin, both Chinese traditional music and western classical music have long past records. Chinese traditional music has over 2500-year history. Western classical music can be traced back to Medieval and Renaissance time, dividing into three main periods: early period, common practice period and contemporary period. 
III. Opera is a good example to reflect their difference because both Chinese traditional music and western classical music have opera tradition. Comparing different cultural operas can bring about an effective idea to analyze that why does western classical music is more pervasive than Chinese traditional music. 
a. Both Chinese opera and western drama are the products of history and culture, reflecting on the change and development of Chinese traditional music and western classical music. 
i. The origin of Chinese opera can retrospect Yuan Dynasty, about eight hundred years, gathering diversely local operas. Chinese opera focuses on mirroring the public daily life and society's criticisms. 
ii. The western dramas can be ascended in Ancient Greece Time, around 6th Century B.C, mainly performing for the purpose of sacrificed and sacred rituals. 
b. Chinese traditional opera is different from western drama instantiating in its characteristics, performing features and emotional expressions. 
i. "Chinese opera, which differs greatly from the Western mode, is the basic theatrical form in China, a catchall typically including not only vocal and instrumental performance and acting but also mime, speech (often melodiously heightened), thoroughgoing choreography and acrobatics"(Oestreich). 
ii. Besides, Chinese opera likes applying various instruments. "The Chinese orchestra included the familiar instrumental families of strings, brass, winds and percussion, with some Western instruments among them. Traditional Chinese string instruments play in the treble range, cellos and double basses join the vertically held gaohus and erhus to fill out the string section"(Loomis). 
iii. Western classical music brings about a unique feeling. "Johnson is not averse to saying that classical music is redemptive. Listened to closely, its form gives us an ideal vision of what we may be."(Lawrence, 14) 
c.	Traced back to 19th century, Chinese opera's has strong influence on pop culture, reflecting on Kung Fu movies, TV shows and journals. As evidence, with increasingly China's improvement, Kung Fu movies are promoted well around the world. 
IV. The discrepant popularity is resulting from Chinese and western historical and cultural background. 
a. Under the control of imperialism, western countries and societies experienced several colonial wars, which preceded a mass of culture export. 
i. Not only did First and Second Opium War in China cause China starting foreign trade with European countries, but also provided opportunities for western invaders to make cultural export-found media industry, spread religion propaganda, etc. 
ii. During the Qing Dynasty, the government decided to cut off China from the outside world. In this case, firms had limited trading resources; people in China lost their connection to communicate with foreign countries; and technology and communicative mechanisms lagged behind western countries a lot. 
b. The processing attitude of both Chinese people and western people toward musical innovation are really different. 
i. For western society, during the Renaissance, people in Europe were willing to accept new things and they advocated innovation. So, western music is just like a jade, getting polished constantly, and finally becomes an ideal one. 
ii. For Chinese society, with the effect of Confucianism, people in China tended to be conservative and scholasticism. This is because what Confucianism advocates of, not pursuing change frequently and just focus on own but on others. 
V. The reason that results in different prevalence includes two-group musicians' efforts in promotion. 
a. The promotion of Chinese traditional music reflects on domestic and overseas promotion. 
i. Grace Liu is a suitable example to illustrate musicians' contribution. Grade Liu was trying to spread a Chinese music culture in England. "Viewed in this way, we might say that Cantonese opera is a cultural avenue for Grace to participate in the larger project of multiculturalism in England as a way of reflecting and affirming her sense of Chineseness in the diaspora-to extend beyond ethnic diversity to acknowledge cultural difference."(Rees, 136) 
ii. For domestic promotion, mainland China applies much methods from western society. "Traditional music culture education in China's mainland has been greatly inspired by Western multicultural education, and also has drawn on some ideas of multicultural education. Multicultural education originally was encouraged in developed countries to help of integrate the social differences of ethnic minorities." (Yang, 141) 
b. Radically, western musicians' approach on promoting classical music is teaching. This is a renewed idea. "Significantly, the most common role for musicians is teaching, and very few musicians practice solely in performance. As one musicians is teaching, 'Learn how to teach! All musicians will have to teach at some time.'"(Bennett, 101) 
VI. Conclusion: For Chinese traditional music, there's still space to progress and to catch up classical music though nowadays prevalence is limited. The purpose of doing this research is to provide resources for those who want to synthesize both classical music and traditional music. 
