P5D1 
04/10/2015 
Indian Culture and Diversity 
India, located in the southern part of Asia is the seventh-largest country by area, the second-most populous country with over 1. 2 billion people scattered around the twenty-nine states and seven union territories being the most populous democracy in the world. India's languages, religions, dance, music, architecture, food, and customs differ from place to place within the country. The Indian culture, often labeled as a unification of several cultures. The diversity of Indian culture plays an important role in grooming each Indian to tolerate each other's views and perspectives. Indian religions, yoga and cuisine, have had a profound impact across the world. 
In my synthesis paper, I read an article written by Carolyn Gregoire called 'What India Can Teach the Rest of the World about Living Well'. From that article I learnt that India had the fastest growing population of wellness tourism. Also, that the Indian cuisine has a lot of herbs and spices that helps curing a lot of ailments such as anti-carcinogenic, anti-fungal and anti-bacterial for centuries. The different cuisines and dishes across the country cater to different uses. In some places, they use more coconut and in other more meat according to the location of the state. 
Secondly, according to Kim Ann Zimmermann in 'Indian Culture: Traditions and Customs of India' talks about all the different aspects of diversity. The national language of India is Hindi and even then 59% of the population talks in various other dialects. In India, 84% of the people in India are Hindus, 13% of Indians are Muslim and the rest are Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains. The clothes worn by the India's are very colorful and differ from state to state. There are 29 ways to wear a 'Saree', a drape wrapped around the waist. The festivals here are also celebrated with a lot of lights and colors. Families and friends meet up, a lot of good food is cooked and there is joy spread all over the country. 
As I mentioned in my formal proposal, I was born and brought up in Bangalore located in the south of India. People relocate from all over India to settle down there, because of its booming IT sector. In view of the multicultural population of the city, I have friends from different parts and religions of India. This made me mindful of the fact that there are different ways of life around India and the world. In my class, there was at least one person from every state in the country. I had friends of all castes, religions and creed. It was really interesting to know the similarities and differences with we celebrate the same festivals. And also to know what they believe in contrary to our own beliefs. 
Contrary to my thesis, in my interview with <name> , I learnt that the diversity in India is only marvelous for a tourist and the people on the outside. The country is divided by caste and creed. All religions need to learn to live in harmony in the country and also people have to overcome racism and untouchability. I learnt that most of the diversity of India comes from the population of the country. And the same population is making it very hard to live in the country. Roads are jammed and cities are always crowded with hardly enough space to stay in the country. On one side there is the elite crowd who live in big, posh villas and on the other the poor who end up staying in unsanitary slums. I think the only way of attaining peace in the country is if the elites address the issue in a proper manner. 
In conclusion, I would like to say that even though Indian diversity has it flaws. I think that the cultural diversity provides a lot more pros than cons. Firstly, because of the diversity in our cuisines and abundant use of herbs and spices helps curing many aliments. Secondly, the colorful and flamboyant nature of Indians keeps everybody in a positive spirit all year long. Thirdly, diversity makes you a better person as you learn to adjust with other people and their lifestyles. 
