P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
Apr 26th 2015 
When the Angel Turns Into the Demon: The Negative Impact of Smart Phones 
The smart phone, one of the most important invention in 20th century, gains more and more population in modern society. Everyday there are always some people grabbing their phones and staring at the screens. Why does this happen? How can smart phones be so magical and addictive? It is undoubted that various applications in smart phones keep people having convenient and intelligent lifestyle. They keep everyone's little trivial things in perfect order. To those who always forget things to do, smart phones remind them to not miss anything. However, I notice that people spend more and more time on their phones. I begin to doubt whether smart phone is really so helpful and innocuous to all the people. After I searched lots of materials, I find that I am not the only one doubting the effect of smart phones on people's normal life. I strongly believe that life would be better if people could reduce use smart phones for 2 hours a day, which means using it more rationally. 
As I wrote above, people is addicted with their phones now, and this problem is on a worsening trend. According to Gartner, the sales number of smart phones in 3rd quarter of 2014 was 3 hundred million, and the total number in a whole year was 12 hundred million. In some developed countries, the number is growing rapidly. I think that the main reason is that using smart phone gives them totally experience they never had before. 50 years ago, no one has ever imagined that people in the future will have a Pandora's Box, which contains bizarre things inside and traps people with chains. The chains are applications. With the explosive growth of smart phone applications, people could find nearly everything they need in application market or app store. Some of apps like weather report, calendar and news report help people live easily and receive more accurate information. They are getting use to relying on phones now feeling like it's an important part of life. The result is we spend more and more time on applications. Radhika Sanghani (2014) wrote that a new study has shown that employers worry about young staff being on their smartphones excessively during the working day. Smart phones steal countless time from people. Maybe people just use them for one or two minutes every time, but when the number adds up, it could be a huge number. People could have used the time to do more positive and meaningful things like exercise, staying with family and reading some books. Unfortunately, smart phone gets people attention from colorful life. They ignore the sunshine outdoor, but they share the picture of sunshine on Instagram. 
The second negative impact of cell phones is that they make people life to pieces. <name> , the Ph D in sociology in Pennsylvania State University, thought smart phones stole away people's attention during the work. People will check their phones unintentionally to avoid missing message. It came from a psychological fear of loneliness. The result is that people can not work efficiently for a long time. Besides affecting work, smart phones also have a bad influence on family realtionships. Before smart phones came up, people choose to stay with family to watch a TV show or talk about what happen in the day after coming back home from working. In some important festivals, they stay together and have a dinner to celebrate. At that time, children were glad to hear story told from old people rather than hold an i Pad. At that time, family sit down to share anecdotes rather than stare at screens. At that time, humans prefer to say what they think rather than to post it on Facebook. All these good time has gone, because the smart phones come. People check phones frequently to avoid missing anything significant. Ironically, they are losing important part of life -face-to-face happiness with others. If communication can only be through screens, that would like a bell without pointers. Like <name> said in the interview with me, it is a disaster for humans to lose face-to-face communication and can only talk through screens 
Someone might think that smart phones do help people a lot dealing with trivial things. They finally don't need to memory everything, and they save lots of time by using phones. Before news applications came up, people need to read newspapers to gain information. That's waste much paper. For most people, they only read newspaper once. The information in newspaper is quite limited. Not everyone can find something interesting. News application solves this problem perfectly. Through internet, people customize application with their interests. I can't deny in some condition smart phones help people a lot with apps like news. The problem is that people spend too much time on it. The notification of news apps is not all necessary. If apps tells those people interested in sports about political news, they would not mind. However, this notification distract people from work and study. 
From what I wrote above, I think people would live better if they can reduce the use of smart phones in daily life. Uninstall unnecessary applications in the phone, and go back with family and friends. The life is still wonderful and colorful. 
NEOCHENG (2014). 300 million in the third quarter of the global smart phone sales. 
Cn.technode.com/post/2014-12-18/gartner-300m-smartphones-q3-xiaomi-top5/ 
Dai Hongran (2015). Interview with Ph D in Pennsylvania State University. 15. 1-3. 
