Three factors that make Asian and Caucasian hair more heat damage resistant 
School of Mechanical Engineering, Purdue University 
Three factors that make Asian and Caucasian hair more heat damage resistant 
Introduction 
For centuries, women have implement heat treatment to their hair to get the hair style they desire. Multiply devices have also been invented and refined to perform the heat treatment to get either curly or straight hair styles. However, reports have shown that no matter for a modern electronic-controlled flat iron or an automotive perm will somehow cause permanent structural damage to human's hair (Hahn et al., 2015, p. 6). Experts in the hairdressing industry pointed out that one type of hair heat treatment product cannot fit every race group due to the different thermal properties (Hahn et al., 2015, p. 6). Thus question was raised that which race's hair type has the highest resistance to the heat damage or in other words, which hair type is more difficult to be structurally damaged by extreme high temperature and drastic temperature change. The answer to this question is unknown for a long time in the industry. This is because researchers struggled for years to design and build an experimental setup to simulate real-life perming and heat treatment conditions. Another reason is that researchers have troubles in interpreting the solid data they got form the experiments (Hahn et al., 2015, p. 8). These two problems were solved by <Name>, a Master student from Purdue University. Form the data he got from the experiment, we are now able to get the answer to this problem. 
The conclusion is that Asian and Caucasian hair have the highest resistance to heat damage while African hair is most sensitive to the heat and easier to get damaged by excessive heat. This conclusion is draw by three key thermal properties of the Asian and Caucasian hair. These three properties are the large diameter of the hair fiber, high thermal conductivity of the hair and high hair density. These three unique features enable Asian and Caucasian hair to have a higher resistance to heat damage and make them less sensitive to temperature change. 
Three factors making hair resistant to heat damage 
Diameter of the hair 
The diameter of the hair fiber is the most important parameter that determines how hair reacts to temperature change. Results showed that the hair with smaller diameter are more likely to suffer from the heat damage (Humphries, Miller, & Wildnauer, 1972, p.362). The diameter of the hair contribute to the heat resistance in two ways. First, the hair with larger diameter has a bigger cross-sectional area. The results shows that a bigger cross-sectional area will make it easier and faster for the heat to transfer from high temperature regions to low temperature region. As the heat transfer much faster, the chance of the heat to cumulative in a local region is low and the temperature of the hair fiber will be relatively low. This will help the hair fiber to resist the heat damage due to the high local temperature. Second, higher diameter means bigger surface area of the fiber, which means the hair fiber has more area contacts with air. This will also help to transfer the heat and lower the local temperature. For Asian and Caucasian hair, the average diameter of the hair fiber is 73 m and 62 m respectively (De La Mettrie et al., 2007, p. 275). However, for African hair, the average diameter is only 54 m (De La Mettrie et al., 2007, p. 276). This low hair fiber diameter make the speed of local temperature increase approximately twice higher than Asian and Caucasian hair which make it more vulnerable to high temperature and drastic temperature change. 
Thermal conductivity 
Besides the diameter of the hair fiber, thermal conductivity is another key factor that contributes to the resistance of heat damage. Experiments showed that Asian and Caucasian hair have higher thermal conductivity which reduce the damage of the drastic heat and temperature change (Hahn et al., 2015, p. 11). Thermal conductivity is a thermal property that describe how fast the heat will transfer from a high temperature region to the low temperature part. High thermal conductivity means there is a greater chance that the heat will move through the hair fibers rather than accumulate in a certain region and heat up that region. As the heat move through the hair fibers, the distribution of the heat will become more uniformed and the maximum temperature will be much lower. This means that the hair with higher thermal conductivity won't suffer from the permanent structural damage caused by the extreme high temperature. Asian and Caucasian hair have the relatively high thermal conductivity of 1.6281W/(K*m) and 1.4036W/(K*m) (Hahn et al., 2015, p. 11). However, for African hair the thermal conductivity is only 0. 5338 W/(K*m) (Hahn et al., 2015, p. 11). This means that maximum temperature that African hair will experience is 3 times higher than Asian and Caucasian hair if the heat is the same. Thus, African hair is more sensitive to the heat and is more likely to experience heat damage. 
Hair density 
Hair density is the third factor besides the hair diameter and thermal conductivity that affect the resistance to heat damage. The average densities of Asian and Caucasian hair are relatively high which make them more resistant to heat damage. The high hair density will help to resist the heat damage in two different ways (Hahn et al., 2015, p. 13). First, high hair density means that the strength of the bond between the hair cell is stronger. Thus more energy and heat is needed to break the bond between the cells and cause heat damage. Second, it takes more heat to increase temperature of the hair with higher density. Higher density means more weight in the hair fiber, and empirical data tells us that the temperature change has a negative relationship with the weight. Therefore, the temperature of the high-density hair during heat treatment is lower that low-density hair. This means the possibility for the high-density hair to suffer from the heat damage caused by extreme high temperature is much lower. The average densities of Asian and Caucasian hair are 1.2kg/s and 1.14kg/s (Humphries, Miller, & Wildnauer, 1972, p.363). However, for African hair the density is only 0. 94 kg/s (Humphries, Miller, & Wildnauer, 1972, p.365). This shows that African hair is more likely to experience extreme high temperature and results in heat damage. 
Conclusion 
To include, Asian and Caucasian hair are better in resistance to heat damage while African hair is vulnerable to excessive heat due to three thermal factors. The three factors are the large diameter of the hair fiber, high thermal conductivity of the hair and high hair density. These three factors help Asian and Caucasian hair to suppress the local high temperature in the hair fiber and lower the possibility of heat damage. 
This conclusion gives some insight to both the customer and hairdressing product manufacturers. For African customers, the temperature need to be precisely controlled during the heat treatment. Also, it is recommended that hair care products like conditioner should be frequently used after perming and dyeing. For the hairdressing product manufacturers, they need to design smart controlled perms and flat irons specialized for African hair to perform heat treatment without any heat damage. 
