Binding of Games 
Video games, a newly emerging entertainment, are undergoing a big change. They begin with a simple form which only contain strictly one genre. In fact, today's video games do not belong to just a single genre; genres can be mixed together. The most common combination is RPG(Role playing game) and FPS(First person shooter game), which forms MMOFPS(Massively multiplayer online first person shooter) However, some people still believe single genre of game can thrive again in video games market nowadays. I firmly believe most of today's video games nowadays are mixed, and they are more attractive than traditional one. 
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare is a newly released shooting game that contains RPG(Role play games) elements. In the game, players can upgrade the equipments of the solider. Actually it is the same as upgrading the solider himself, because the player can not tell the difference between better equipment and stronger solider.(Wiki, 2014) Moreover, the game has an excellent plot with fabulous computer graphics. These computer graphics makes the whole game more attractive. On the other hand, it is also an AVG(adventure game), because it have one chapters after another; players need to finish one mission and another to complete the "achievement". Compared to the original FPS games, like CS and Half Life, the total play through time of this kind of game is higher, and it contains other game genres' advantages as well. From the unofficial statistic, the sales of COD: Advanced Warfare is 3,722,031, which will be bigger than the last year estimably(Shawn, 2014). Because COD series continue to develop more and more other genre element into their new game, the sales go upwards almost every year. 
Minecraft is another game that realize the benefit of multi-genre video games. Instead of combining different kinds of genres together, it asks the players themselves to do it. Minecraft allows players to do anything they want in the world they create, there is no detailed instruction on how to survive in the world or how to play through it. Instead, by letting the game source open to the public, Minecraft allow people with some knowledge of computer science to edit their own new maps or mods, which can cover almost every genre of video games. Because it is so easy to make a mod that the total number of mods and maps are potentially unlimited. As a sand box game, which run by java, Minecraft is a really successful game. The total sale of PC is 54 million copies. 
Hearthstone is also influenced by multi-genre games. Hearthstone is a board game produced by Blizzard. When it is first opened to the public, it is a typical board game which players play with each other or they can play with the computer. With this traditional pattern, Hearthstone still attract a lot of players. For example, I have played this game for a long time. When I first touched this game, I did spend a lot of time on defeat other players and unlock new and powerful cards. Since I am a big fan of board game, when I played it for a while, I started to lose my interest; then, I will be online only once a week and have not interest like the beginning to play it. Fortunately, at the last of the summer vocation, they have an adventure version, which means players can defeat different boss in order to get new cards. I like this update a lot, because it is the first game that allows players to defeat boss, using deck of cards. 
However, old single genre game is still popular until now, like CS. Too many people in my age consider CS as the father of FPS games. The success of CS can be contributed to its single genre. In my high school, still a lot my friends like to play CS, we downloaded and played it without feeling boring. If a game can make this accomplishment, then it is definitely the best of the best. 
In conclusion, multi-genre games have an advantage over single genre games. Players can feel more fun in multi-genre one. The game market do not need too many similar games. The success of one game can never be copied, so it is important for new games to have its own combination on different genres. However, some old school single genre one has achieved a huge success. In order to have more and more successful video games, it is essential to mix several genre together. 
Reference 
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare. (2014, November 16). Retrieved November 18, 2014, from 		http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Advanced_Warfare 
Shawn, K. (203, November 23). Call of Duty: Ghosts is the top-selling game on next generation 		consoles. Retrieved November 18, 2014, from http://www.techspot.com/news/54828-		call-of-duty-ghosts-is-the-top-selling-game-on-next-generation-consoles.html 
Farokhmanesh, M. (2014, July 25). Minecraft console sales surpass PC, 'almost 54M' copies sold 	in total. Retrieved November 18, 2014, from http://www.polygon.com/				2014/6/25/5843358/minecraft-console-sales-54m-copies-sold 
