P5d3_arp 
April 26, 2016 
How should parents self-question during the education process? 
Children are the future of the family and their parents, so education has become one of the most important part of a family. I believe most parents want their children to grow up into healthy and smart people. As we all know, children not only learn course book knowledge at school but also learn other abilities after class. In most of time, the after school activities is decided by the parents. For example Amy Chua, the author of "the battle hymn of the tiger mothers" is famous for her way of education towards her two daughters. She made almost every decision for them including forcing them to play the violin. This made great argument in education. So how do parents make their decision becomes an important and interesting topic to think about. After a number of interview and articles reading, I've got a suggestion of "Parents need to self-question when they are educating their children." 
The first point to question is "Find a balance between parents and the children" What balance? The balance between parents' hope and children's interest. It is true that parents will consider about the future more than children, and also it's true that parents know what is better for the children. But we also know interest is an important thing for children in learning a new thing. Parents should not force children to do what they don't want to do, but find an activity which is good for both sides. Maybe it seems difficult but actually don't. Something like sports or art will be a very good choice. For example at the interview with my professor <name> , she never force her kids to learn something and her kids can do freely in their sports and flute playing, but when meeting the kind like learning language, which is really important, she will ask the kids to learn and tell them why it is important. Her kids can working on their interests and important abilities. The result is, her both sons are not only concentrate on what they like, but also learn the abilities which will be very important for them, more important, they are glad of this happen. 
The second point to question is "Have enough knowledge to decide which is right for children" When making a decision, how the decision maker's thought decide how the decision will be made. Whether the decision is good or bad, it all depends on people. If a people have higher education or have high level of thinking, he or she can make better decisions than those who don't. As a survey which is made by a couple of German educationist, students who get high scores usually have high educational parents. When they have questions to ask their parents for help, their parents can more likely to give a good idea for them. Because they know more and can understand where the problem is. Some parents they have the mind of helping their children, but they cannot give a good idea for them, this also influence the decision making. 
The final point to question is "Have an attitude which will encourage children?" parents themselves need to have a positive attitude. Children are young and can be easily moved by their parents' mood. If their parents said "no I don't think this will working" or "I'm not sure if you can do this", most children will also agree with these negative thoughts. "My mom said it may not success." or "Dad told me not to try because I' m not good at, maybe he's right." This will take the chance of trying new things away from children, if they don't try how they will know if they can do it or not? If the parents have the mind of "why don't you just do it?" "It's okay if you fail because mom will always be with you", then most children will bravely make their first step to the success. For example, when Isaac Newton was young, he didn't get good marks and all his classmates said he was a fool. But Newton's mother think this is not true, and teaching him classes by herself at home. At last Newton became a successful scientist. If his mother also thought her son is a fool, she will not keep helping him, and Newton would believe he will never become successful. 
If parents can think clearly of the three points above, they may make a good decision for their children. Education is not just for children, it also need parents to make progress in their own thoughts. Children are young, they need their parents' help. Most parents love their children and want to help them, but how many of them really helps? Sometimes parents really need to think about this question: "Am I helping my kid to the way of success or just killing his interest towards study?" If parents can clearly ask this question, it's not hard to communicate with kids and made a good decision for everyone in the family. 
