11/21/2015 
Friendship in America 
--- influence character by ideology environment 
Nowadays, as economic globalization has become dominant, people in countries like China have started to become rich and want to send their descendants to countries like America for a better education. While studying in America, most Chinese students have the feeling that they have a hard time making American friends. From my perspective, the main reason behind this phenomenon is the influences of ideology environment, not of culture differences. 
There is an old Chinese saying that goes, "The unique features of a local environment always give special characteristics to its inhabitants." In other words, people are the product of environment. This environment includes literal environment, ideology environment, history environment, and culture environment. When we talk with our friends about someone, we can often hear our friends describe where they are from first. For example, when I talked with my roommate <name> about his new friend <name>, instead of telling me directly what characteristics <name> had, <name> told me that <name> is from <place>. The implication of this information is that Sam is a very tough guy, since <place> is the hometown of cowboys. The environment that people are raised in can greatly influence them. This is called environmental assimilation. Since Chinese students are mostly raised in China, their ideology is be different from that of American students. This is why Chinese students usually have hard time finding American friends. 
Ideology environment is the most important factor in the environmental influences. China is a country with a huge population. According to the Chinese National Statistics Bureau, China has 1. 368 billion people 2014 data information. Since the resources and opportunities are limited, students in China need to work really hard all the time, and practice skills in all academic subjects. Every Chinese student was raised in an environment in which they cannot survive unless they are outstanding enough. Based on the huge population, the only effective way to increase social mobility and to offer people fair opportunities is to use the test system, which is basically giving students exams and ranking them according to their scores. On one hand, with high scores, students can get acceptances from top universities and easily find jobs after graduation. On the other hand, the students with low scores can only get into bad universities and end up with bad occupations. Although there are some inspirational examples like the example of Hanhan, the most influential youth in the literary circles who graduated from a bad school, this situation is very rare. So in order to have bright future, Chinese students use almost all their time to study. They even sacrifice their already slim sleep hours. So Chinese students usually are really good at studying and skills for taking all kinds of tests, but lack in many other things which are also important in their future life. On the contrary, since the environment of America is more freely, American students are more focused on the joy of life. They use their free time to hang out with friends, play sports like basketball, and play musical instruments. Under the free ideology in America, the students develop both physically and mentally. When Chinese students meet with American students, their Chinese ideology will influence their behavior. The common behavior of Chinese students may seem weird for American students. When two different ideologies meet, a conflict will surely happen. This is why Chinese students can find it hard to make American friends. 
Historical environment is also very influential in this phenomena. A century ago, China was attacked by multiple western powers. After suffering from the undying hunger, riot, and war, people in China finally realized the power of new technology and study. Although China now is already a negligible power in the world, the ingrained history ideology of 100 years in Chinese people cannot change. So Chinese students usually study very hard. When talking with American students, Chinese students may act like nerds who only care about studying, which makes them hard to become popular among students in American universities, let alone finding American friends. 
Although others may say that culture difference as the main reason for the phenomenon that Chinese students have hard time making American friends, I think culture difference is just a branch of the ideology environment, which is the fundament of this phenomenon. 
All in all, I hold the opinion that the main reason behind the phenomenon that Chinese students usually have hard time finding American friends is the influences of ideology environment, rather than simply because of culture differences. 
Reference 
Guang G. 2014 . Population of China 
Retrieved from: http://baike.baidu.com/link?url=8x GG139Cy Tfr6UAWq1GJNSp649GOsh Jq-er VI029M0ERK1C39dod0f Hz7gh8H1ZEle7Il GYg Srao PBAWex7D5a 
