P5d3_arp 
Dec.11. 2015 
Why is gender inequality still an issue? 
	These days, people do not take inequality as the major issue that we should focus on. Since there are several societal problems, people do not believe that inequality is the top priority that people should fight for. We should focus on gender inequality because there are still people who are living in discrimination and they do not speak up to this issue because of the consequences that they will face. Female are still disadvantaged and are discriminated by the society. We should take feminism more seriously and find possible solutions to solve this problem. People should be aware of this problem in order to have a developed human life economically, socially, and politically. 
	To begin with, as one of the developing countries in Central America, Honduras shows how women are largely disadvantaged socially and economically. Women are abusively treated and experience domestic violence by men during their relationship (Progressio 2013). Some male leaves their family or split with their partner whenever they feel uncomfortable or unpleasant with their relationships. As men leave women by themselves, women remain isolated by the society with their children or alone. Living as a single mother in Honduras is a very difficult thing since there is no support system in Honduras by the government (Progressio 2013). Also, women are socially treated unfairly since Honduras has the highest murder and rape rate (Porgressio 2013). The unwanted death of women is becoming an issue since women are murdered with no reason. The unjustified killing is caused because there is no other reason than that they are just women. 
	Developing countries and developed countries are still facing gender inequity. International gender inequality can be seen through the "Gender Inequality Index (GII)." The GII represents women's disadvantage in three dimensions. Health problem, empowerment, and labor market (Martiner 2013). Women ranges fare poorly compared to men in all dimensions. Education, health system, the share of parliamentary seats held by opposing sex, women have different percentage of inequality compared to men. The loss of achievement of human development is decreasing due to gender inequality. Countires and continents like Yemen, Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and the Arab has the largest losses of achievement of human development over more than 50%. The Gender Inequality (GII) helps government, society, and economy visualize the trends and situations of gender inequality around the world. 
	There are still people striving and fighting for gender inequality and are constantly wishing for an end in discrimination. People have developed and made several positive strides for gender equality, however, there are still different treatment between male and female. According to rainbo organization "In Africa there is still female genital mutilation." Also, throughout Asia, Ukraine, Latin America, Africa, and central/eastern Europe trafficking is still an issue that people should be aware of. About 700,000 people who are trafficking are mostly women. Due to sexual exploitation women are trafficking thorough out the world. In Middle East there are still honor killings. These killings are to prevent arranged marriages and for dressing policies. According to Rainbo Organization there are no shelters provided for women who are living in dangerous situations and no support and protection from the country. Adding more to this, in Nepal when women are sexually abused, the perpetrators are neither punished nor arrested. Women do not speak up to these issue since they are afraid of confronting and due to the consequences that they will receive. 
	 There are diverse and several crises that make the people forget about gender inequality. They put this issue at the end since they feel like it is less important than other issues such as global warming, extinction, and more. Gender inequality is one of the factors in which the society should be aware of since women are economically, socially, and politically disadvantaged. The government should set up more organizations or support women who are in dangerous circumstances. People should also set more employee fair payment. Also, there should be support from education for single mothers and children. Women who are mentally and physically hurt should have the support of psychological treatment to have improved life. Gender inequality should be fixed and people should be aware in order to have a better social and economic life for humans. 
Citations 
Honduras: Gender Inequality and Feminism. (2014, July 18). Retrieved 
November 20 2015, from 
http://www.progressio.org.uk/blog/empowered-blog/honduras-gender-inequality-and-feminism 
Gender Inequality around the World. (2013, March 10). Retrieved 
November 30, 2015, from 
http://helathintelligence, drupalgardens.com./content/gender-inequality-around-world 
Discrimination of Women Throughout the World. (n.d). Retrieved 
November 30,2015, from 
http://www.rainbo.org/discrimination-of-women-throughout-the-world/ 
