04/13/2015 
Word count: 895 
Which is a better place to learn business , workplace or college? 
Introduction 
My research topic is to find the better place to learn how to do business. In order to collect data to support my position, I have read some papers about both learn business skills at business schools and learn skills. I have interviewed a Ph D business student, she gives me many useful information, and I also collected some facts online. All these help me draw my final conclusion: compared to workplace, business school is the better place to learn business, but if students with real workplace experience, the outcomes will be much better. I use the following 4 paragraphs to develop my paper, I use the second paragraph to show evidence I collected at bibliography paper, the third paragraph to show the arguments I got from the interview. In the last paragraph, I will include my research data and make a conclusion. 
Supportive arguments from APA citation 
To start with, I have include 3 papers in my bibliography. the first article "How business schools lost their way", author Bennis mentioned 3 negative sides of business schools: 
1. They hired professors only have academic experience. (Bennis, 2005, p. 95). 
2. They teach students "scientific" stuff, which is not very useful in real business world.(Bennis, 2005, p. 97). 
3. Employers thought the MBA graduates from business schools lack of skills they needed at workplace. (Bennis, 2005, p. 102) 
The first article stated 3 negative sides, but if you check the 3 statements carefully, you will get one thing these 3 statements want to say: the business students lack of real workplace experience! That's why my position said if combined with real work experience, students will get much more than those who do not have a work experience. 
The second article is written by Gerber, R. (1998). "How do workers learn in their work?". 
He mentioned 10 aspects of work-based learning. But I only listed three most business related skills here: 
1. learn by combine theory and real practices 
2. Learning by solve real problems 
3. learning by communicate with others 
This article talks about the skills that we can learn at workplace, learning with real practices and solve real problems, learning by communicate with others. All these 3 skills we rare have a chance to learn at business school, that's the advantage of the workplace, combine theory with real practices. 
The third article is written by Birchfield, Reg "MBAs are they worth it? " 
Birchfield explained in 2 ways why MBA worth it: 
1. He pointed out that CEOs with a MBA performed better than average during financial crisis(Birchfield, 2010, p.28). 
2. The MBA program is up to date and students can learn stuff from real business word, "we bring market place into the classroom". (Withers, 2010, p.34) 
The third article showed us that the MBA graduates performed better than average during financial crisis and the MBA program teach students stuff from real business word. Both support my position directly. 
Supportive arguments from interview 
I got some useful information from the interview of <name>. She is a business Ph D student, and she studied business for 8 years. She gave me two explanations to state her opinion about my topic: 
First, she said that students can learn whole package of basic business knowledge such as: fiance, accounting, organization behavior, management, strategical thinking. These back ground knowledge people can not learn from workplace. 
Second, she mentioned that learning business at workplace, you can practice concrete skills from concrete activities. But the workplace confined you in a particular position, so the knowledge you have learned at current position also be confined. For example, if you promoted to a higher position, the work skills you have learned from former work position maybe not so useful at current position. However, the business skills you learned from business school, you can use this knowledge at multiple position. For instance, no matter you are working as a salesman or manager, the management and accounting skills are useful at both positions. 
Conclusion 
At first, I thought workplace is a better place to learn how to do business. I know some successful businessmen who never went to business school, but after researches, data collection and interview, I changed my position. My online data collection reveals the percentage of first hundred CEOs(Chief Executive Officer) from the fortune 500 that 71% of them have a business school education(bachelor, MS, Ph D, or MBA). I am convinced by the data, these CEOs annual salary is millions. But these "successful" businessmen I have known, millions are all they have. So, compared to these real business school educated CEOs, the non-business background businessman earn much less. During the data collection I also noticed that many of these CEOs are not business school bachelor or Master, they got their MBAs after they worked for many years. When they climbed to high position(CEO,CFO(Chief Financial Officer),COO(Chief Operating Officer)), they go to business school to have a MBA degree, If they want to be capable at the new position, they need more business background knowledge. This phenomenon just like my thesis position states: business school is the better place to learn business, if students with real workplace experience, the outcomes will be much better. 
Reference 
Bennis, W., & O'Toole, J. (2005). How business schools lost their way. Harvard Business Review, 83(5), 96-104. 
Gerber, R. (1998). How do workers learn in their work?, The Learning Organization, 5(4), 168 - 175. 
Birchfield, Reg MBAs are they worth it? (2010) New Zealand Management. Vol. 57 Issue 4, p28-34. 
