The Verdict: Culture Shock 
Purdue University 
The Verdict: Culture Shock 
Shock is a sudden experience when a person gets distressed. Culture is defined as beliefs of a certain group of people or a society. Hence, culture shock is when a person experiences a new culture and starts feeling unhappy. Culture shock is a common concern among international students travelling to United States. With the increase in number of international students in the past decade culture shock among them is also increasing. According to Institute of International education (2014), the total international enrollment in United States was 886,052 and out of that 11. 6 % were Indian students coming in second to Chinese in total international enrollment. Indian students also face the wrath of culture shock, but I believe that culture shock only affects the social life of Indian students and it doesn't have a direct impact on the academic. 
Although this might not be the case for every student, as each student is different, but the researchers have shown that this is the common trend among international students. Dr. <name>, <position> at Purdue University said, "International students tend to do as well academically as domestic students." Maximum researchers just talk about the negative effects related to culture shock and they always seem to mention about how social life of international students gets impacted. Some experimenters have linked that negative social impacts on a student's lifestyle is directly proportional to academics of the student and have mentioned that both of the areas can be equally impacted by culture shock. 
In this argumentative paper I'll try to put a stand on the ground that culture shock affects the social life of international students an doesn't hinder with the academic life against the possible argument that culture shock indeed affects both social and academic life of an international student. Keeping in mind various sources discussed in this paper a conclusion can be drawn. 
There are various differences in academic and social difference between American and Indian education, as mentioned by Chaubal (2011). Gooch (2015) mentions various lifestyle differences between Indian and American students; with major issues faced by Indian students are language, food, and other social aspects. Nowhere in the article anything about culture shock being a barrier for academics was mentioned. The video (Life of an international student, 2013) lists various eminent features of American universities from an international students point of view. Xia (2009) discuses about psychological impacts of culture shock on international students. Some primary reasons associated with the culture shock are verbal and nonverbal communication. Stress is the one of the major negative impact of culture shock that can further lead to depression, anxiety, and helplessness. 
Koenigstein (2012) mentions that international students have more rigid curriculum that makes them academically efficient as comparable to domestic students and international students are highly motivated to succeed in American Universities despite their other concerns. Araujo (2011) mentioned about six areas where international student have adjustment issues: English language proficiency, social support, length of stay in the US, perceived discrimination or prejudice, establishing relationship with Americans, and homesickness. Although the articles doesn't directly talks about academic or social barriers, but these adjustment issues can be indirectly linked with both of them. 
Wu etal (2014) talks about both academic as well as social barriers for international students. For determining the barriers a survey was conducted in which ten students were chosen and their responses were noted, hence researchers concluded the following things; the academic barriers that hampers international students progress were: interaction with professors, isolation from classmates, language barrier, and pressure of parents' expectation. Besides academic barriers, various social barriers were also considered: communication patterns, notion of punctuality, and prejudice against international students. This clearly gives a valid opposition to my stand and conveys that culture shock impacts both social and academic life of the international students. 
My interview with Dr. <name> made me believe that my conclusion is stronger than the opposing statement as all he talked about how international students gets affected in the social aspects at American Universities and as mentioned above data have shown that international students tend to do academically good just like American students and sometimes even better than them. He also mentioned food as a major concern for some international students, but nothing that can hinder he academic level of students. 
