ENG 106 I - I25 
P5 D3 
April 28th, 2016 
ARGUMENTATIVE 
	Should students in business school be required to take internships in order to graduate? Internships are something that nowadays is really common. Doing an internship can be of great advantages to the students. Students are able to learn new techniques to study and internship's also helps build a stronger job resume. Internships also helps student understand better if they want to pursue their degree in the field of study they have chosen. From most of the articles and research done on students in general, internships are found to help students for the greater good. 
	The first advantage is the ability of learning new techniques and skills. Like developing more effective ways of studying and arranging daily schedule much more easily. Students also develop the skill of working in a team, which makes them complete tasks much more efficiently and quicker (Merrit, 2008). With the internship experience the student can understand tasks with much more ease as time passes. It is all because they get the direct experience and mentors correct the interns on their mistakes. Through this process the interns gain knowledge and learn more efficient ways for working. Moreover, through all this process the intern can gain new and valuable contacts for the future (Huhman, 2011). 
	The second reason for internships being a great help for students is, it helps them build a better job resume. Having an internship on your job resume in one of the biggest advantages nowadays. As most employers prefer candidates with internship experience, because it's like they already know how the work life is and have direct experience (Hering, 2011). Moreover, from the next document it was mentioned that students with internships had a greater career success (Gault, Redington & Schlager, 2000). In general students who had completed an internship and had that on their resume had a greater advantage and received more benefits. Having an internship on your resume can also be a way to show that you are motivated. If your academic marks are not up to standard the internship covers up for some low scores (Talentsquare, 2013). 
	The third reason is what makes internships beneficial for the students themselves. It is a perfect way to find out if the student wants to continue studying in the major they want to pursue. While doing an internship the student can get an insight of the industry and figure out if this what they want to do in the future. By doing this the student can avoid great costs if all the money is spent to earn the wrong degree (Huhman, 2011). Through all the work at the end of the internship the intern can feel how their life will be like in the future and can start preparing from ahead and have a head start. The interns also experience diversified types of employer's, through this overtime they can figure what type of company they want to work with in the future. Some might also find their role-models like this by being inspired by the perfect and right type of boss (Schambach & Dirks, 2000). 
	Even with all the reasons stating quite obviously internships are beneficial. There is the fact that internships might just be all a waste of time. Some people might say while doing an internship you give up a big part of your day. This might all just be a waste of time rather one can do other stuff to be productive. Furthermore, there is the fact internships are usually unpaid and this places some people in great financial burden. On the other hand, there is the fact that a lot of people say that internships are very beneficial. It helps in so many ways like example learning new techniques which makes life easier. 
	To sum up after conducting many studies and couple of interviews with some experts I was able to generalize that internships has countless advantages. On the other hand, there is a cost for doing internships which causes a great amount of trouble for some interns. Having the response from students that have completed internships, the majority of them recommended almost all the new students to complete internships. Internships most the times is not that easy but through mistakes is how we learn not to make them again! 
REFRENCES: 
Gault, J., Redington, J., & Schlager, T. (2000). Undergraduate Business Internships and 
Career Success: Are They Related? Pg (45-53) 
Hering, B. (2011, April 14). Why are internships so important? CNN. 
http://www.cnn.com/2010/LIVING/worklife/04/14/cb.why.internships.important/ 
Huhman, H. (2011, April 29). Why You Should Get a Summer Internship. US News. 
http://money.usnews.com/money/blogs/outside-voices-careers/2011/04/29/why-you-should-get-a-summer-internship 
Knouse, S. B., & Fontenot, G. (2008). Benefits of The Business College Internship: A Research 
Review. Pg. (61-66) 
Merrit, R. D. (2008). Student Internships, 1-8. 
Schambach, T. P., & Dirks, J. (2000). Student Perceptions of Internship 
Talentsquare. (2013, July 8). 6 Reasons to do an Internship While Studying. 
https://Www. Talentsquare. Com/Blog/6-Reasons-Why-You-Should-Do-An-Internship-while-Studying/#Disqus_Thread 
