Risks and Benefits of Smartphones 
Abstract 
This essay investigates how smartphones are impacting society both socially and mentally and also how they are leading our population into addiction. In addition, extensively researched information is included on why smartphone dependence is a growing concern and how in the near future, the well-known positive effects of smartphones will be outweighed by the increasing negative effects which include addiction and social anxiety. The essay concludes by giving different methods to reduce smartphone overuse and hints at a possible future where further research is conducted. 
Risks and Benefits of Smartphones 
Smartphones are deteriorating communication between people rather than aiding it, "email, instant messaging, and cell phones give us fabulous communication ability, but because we live and work in our own little worlds, that communication is totally disorganized" (Savant, 2013). According to Suki (2013), an interview conducted among the students in a public university in Malaysia shows that ninety percent of people between the ages of twenty to twenty three own a smartphone and an article by Salehan and Negahban (2013) stated that there is a large increase in the penetration rate (11%) of mobile phone users worldwide yearly. This shows that smartphone over usage is slowly but steadily becoming an immense problem and this could lead to a rapid decline in critical thinking and an increase of social awkwardness as well as a complete loss of face-to-face conversations. This paper studies the mental and social impacts that smartphones have had on people, gives possible solutions to avoid their overuse, and provides evidence that the negative effects of smartphones will eventually eclipses its positives. 
As the number of smartphones sold increases daily, so does its personal usage by our general population. Oulasvirta et al. (2012) conducted various studies like the longitudinal logging of smartphones that have shown us that smartphones are more accessible than laptops, so they are more commonly misused. Smartphone overuse is leading to the formation of habits among teens like the checking habit, which is repetitive inspection of content accessible on someone's phone. 
The introduction of applications like Facebook, Twitter and You Tube, which are social networking services (SNS), as mentioned by Salehan and Negahban, are the main causes of smartphone overuse which causes formation of habits among teens as mentioned above. These SNS are creating a mental pull on people which has led to them not being able to stay away from their smartphones for even a few minutes. As Salehan and Negahban stated, "people install and use such mobile applications to satisfy their growing needs to connect and communicate with others. Higher communication needs will drive people to participate in the growing trend of use of mobile applications" (p. 2636). Research by Pearson and Hussain (2015) confirms that people cannot live with as much ease without their smartphones and shows that not owning a phone would have a negative impact on daily activities and relationships. These communication needs lead to people using their phones too much and thus cause mental and physical problems. 
Many different authors have published various articles and studies related to the problems mentioned above, which view the social and the mental difficulties that have arisen due to smartphone addiction. Drew and Voigt (2014) have examined the mental issues that have resulted due to smartphones overuse, through multiple experiments, and determined the relationship between smartphones and worsening memory. It was found that the concentration of a person was affected negatively with the overuse of smartphones. A loss of concentration could lead to severe consequences that could cost some teens their school grades and possibly their future. 
Further information on negative effects of smartphones was illustrated by Vikrant Sateesh, an undergraduate multi-disciplinary research assistant in electrical and computer engineering (ECE), psychological science, computer science, and an expert on effects of smartphones in relationships, said that people prefer to have conversations online through their phones via messages instead of going out and physically talking to people. These online conversations tend to be convenient as they require no emotional connection with the other person whatsoever (personal communication, November 3rd, 2015). Both Sateesh and Pierce (2009), who had conducted studies which investigated the role that social anxiety due to overuse of smartphones played on how teens communicate with each other, agree that smartphones usage among teens is influencing the amount of time spent on smartphones and this usage acts as a complete substitute for face-to-face communication. Smartphone addiction is a growing problem and its usage must be reduced before it is too late, else in the future, people may become lost in their own digital worlds and may become completely oblivious to the environment and people around them. 
There has been a lot of discussion about the negative effects of smartphones, but a recent study conducted by Jabbour (2013), which looks at the impact of mobile technologies on Lebanese higher education classes, shows that smartphones positively influence students' engagement and activities in class, and lead to students being more involved in classroom activities. This may be true among a few students, but most students generally tend to use smartphones in class for everything other than what is being taught. For example students continuously use their phones to check social media and play games while class is going on, this could reduce the ability of students to concentrate in class and will negatively affect their grades. 
Another argument in favor of smartphone use can be found in a study by Soomro et al. (2013), which looks at how smartphones have positively impacted almost all aspects of human life including business, education, and social life. This makes it evident that smartphones are extremely useful when used in proportion daily, but Soomro et al., also agree with my position that "addiction to smartphones can cause a major impact on social life as it creates friction in our lives by removing face-to-face conversations all together" (p. 223). They also give different examples on how smartphones are negatively affecting business, health and social interactions. Due to the current rate of smartphone usage there is large probability that people will succumb to smartphone addiction thus causing major social problems in the future. 
In conclusion, a smartphone can be considered a double-edged sword with both good and bad qualities, but I believe that in the near future the negative aspects of smartphones will completely overshadow the positives, so we should consider taking the required measures to avoid this from happening. This could be done by not using smartphones during social events, short-term interactions like checking out at the grocery store, and reducing the time spent on social media daily. I hope that people will start taking smartphone addiction seriously, stop taking selfies, pay attention to the research that has been published and conduct further research to show that smartphone dependence is an ever-growing concern before it is too late. 
