Antidepressant Drugs: Good or Bad? 
Purdue University 
04/15/15 
Introduction 
According to Dr. <Name>, a general practitioner in Malaysia, depression is a medical disorder in which "a persistent low mood and aversion to activity affects a person's thoughts, behaviors and well-being" (Personal communication, 2015). The most common treatment that is generally known to depression is antidepressants. However, until today, it is still controversial whether antidepressant drugs are safe and effective or not. Although people say that antidepressants have many negative side effects (Will be further refuted) and should not be used , I still think that antidepressants drugs are necessary as a complement with therapy and can be safe to use as long as the correct prescriptions. 
Body 
I used to have depression and at the same time I have met people who had been diagnosed with depression. That is why, I feel to find a proper treatment for depression is really important because for one who had went through the darkest chapter of her life, it can be said, literally, that depression is not something to joke around, as said by Elizabeth Wurtzel, "That's the thing about depression: A human being can survive almost anything, as long as she sees the end in sight. But depression is so insidious, and it compounds daily, that it's impossible to ever see the end. The fog is like a cage without a key." For the sake of this paper, I have done research regarding depression and its treatments by doing an interview with a general practitioner, Dr. Zaahirah and reviewing academic journal regarding depression and antidepressants. My research questions are as follows: 
1. Are antidepressants safe to use? 
2. Are antidepressants effective? 
I will use the knowledge that I have gained to persuade people to understand the importance of antidepressants. 
Antidepressant (AD) is not a happy pill nor is a panacea (remedies for all difficulties). ADs are prescription-only drugs that come with risks as well as benefits, and should only be taken under a doctor's supervision (John Hauser, 2013). The effectiveness of antidepressants depends on the severity of the depression. Psychiatrist, Petros Markou, M.D., said that for adult with severe depression, "there is strong evidence that antidepressants are more effective than any other treatment." However, for a mild depression, antidepressants are no better than placebo (Fava, 2014) - a harmless pill prescribed for the psychological benefit. People would say that psychotherapy is more effective than antidepressants, but psychotherapy together with antidepressants are far more efficacious. Based on my interview with Dr. <Name>, she said that antidepressants alone are insufficient and that supports from family and friends are also important in order for full recovery. A review of 13 controlled clinical trials for patients with generalized anxiety disorder receiving cognitive behavioral therapy together with antidepressants (Kelsberg & Trotter, 2007) supports Dr. <Name>'s statement. Therefore, all of these evidences strengthen the fact that antidepressants as a complement for psychotherapy are more effective and advantageous. 
The problem with antidepressants that are concerned by most people is that they have harmful side effects. However, all medications have aftereffects if not taken as prescribed and upon asking Dr. <Name> regarding this matter, she told me that although there are some side effects with antidepressants, the chosen antidepressants, SSRI (Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors) such as Prozac, Celexa and Zoloft, have fewer side effects compared to other type of ADs. In addition, Lapi et al reviewed a large sample of data from United Kingdom Critical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) and it is evidenced that antidepressants do not associate with the increase risk of c AF (Lapi, 2015). In contrast, a millionaire philanthropist, Sir Peter Lampl who had depression was claimed to have an immediate personality changes after consuming the antidepressants he was prescribed with. To refute this argument, Psychiatrist Dr William Shanahan, medical director at Capio Nightingale Hospital, London, is insistent that anti-depressants are safe. Shanahan mentioned that Peter Stampl's case is very unusual and difficult to explain without a full pharmaceutical history. He added that such extreme reaction would probably be caused by external factors such as a build-up of medication, linked with another illness, stress or alcohol consumption. All in all, the argument of antidepressants as being harmful is clearly irrelevant for it to not be used in treating depression. 
Conclusion 
As a conclusion, I would like to underline that antidepressants are important in the treatment of depression. As much as it is said to ineffective, antidepressants do make a prominent changes when combine with therapy. At the same time, the statement of which antidepressants have negative side effects is inapplicable as all medications have side effects if it is not prescribed accordingly. However, I still want to highlight that AD is not an elixir and it would not work its 'magic' in treating depression without external supports. Taking medications is also not a sign of weakness, but rather, a sign of courage within imperfection. Therefore, the next time we encounter someone who has depression; remember that "There are wounds that never show on the body that are deeper and more hurtful than anything that bleeds." (Laurell K. Hamilton). 
Reference 
Fava G. Rational use of antidepressant drugs. Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics [serial online]. 	July 2014; 83(4):197-204. Available from: Psyc INFO, Ipswich, MA. Accessed March 29, 	2015. 
Hauser, J. (2013). Depression Medications: Antidepressants. Psych Central. Retrieved on April 	15, 2015, from http://psychcentral.com/lib/depression-medications-	antidepressants/000916 
Lambert, V. (2009, February 23). Anti-depressants: Just how safe are they? Retrieved April 14, 	2015, from http://www.telegraph.co.uk/lifestyle/wellbeing/4736645/Anti-depressants-	just-how-safe-are-they.html 
Lapi, F., Azoulay, L., Kezouh, A., Benisty, J., Matok, I., Mugelli, A., & Suissa, S. (2015). The 	use of antidepressants and the risk of chronic atrial fibrillation. Journal Of Clinical 	Pharmacology, 55(4), 423-430. doi:10.1002/jcph. 435 
Mohammad, Z., personal communication, March 2, 2015 
Trotter, B., Kelsberg, G., & St. Anna, L. (2007). How should we treat major depression 	combined with anxiety?. Journal of Family Practice, 56(4), 306-308. 
Antidepressants 
Running head: ANTIDEPRESSANTS 
