Foreign Teacher and International Schools 
P5D1 
April 19, 2015 
	In recent years, globalization has become a trend among the world. Numerous western people flood into China every year. According to the Sixth National Census in China, there were 593,832 foreigners came to China in 2010(NBS, 2011). Some of them chose to be teachers in China. As I mentioned before, due to the trend of globalization, more students are willing to study abroad. Some English speaking countries such as the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. In the latest decade, numerous international schools were founded in China. These schools attract students by the AP/A-Level courses they provide and the foreign teachers in the schools. Since the day that international schools were known by the society, the debate on whether students should go to international schools never end. This paper is focus on the pros and cons of international schools. 
	International schools, through out the recent fifteen years, most of them are British and American style and the teachers in those schools most are from UK and US (Hayden, 2006). Actually, the international schools I discuss in this paper are the schools for students who want to study abroad. Those students are looking for a similar education system like western countries. International schools offer some courses such as AP and A-Level courses. Students could truly learn knowledge in the western systems. They use the imported textbooks and learn all the things in English. The tuition fees of international schools are always higher than normal schools. In China, a normal high school would cost 5,000 RMB per year; an international school would cost 70,000 RMB per year. Some people may think the extremely high cost is not worth. 
The main advantage of international schools is the teacher resources. Most foreign teachers in international schools use English as their first language. Obviously, students go to international schools to acquire original English teaching, foreign teachers are the best roles to teach in English. An international school teacher or educator is someone engaged in the education of pupils in schools other than their country of citizenship. The term generally refers to teachers who are teaching in private or independent schools. Faculties at international schools are usually from or certified by the standards of their country of origin (Savva, 2013). In most international schools in China, each course is taught by a foreign teacher and a domestic teacher. They have separate class but similar knowledge. Students would not only learn things in English but also can ask questions to their Chinese teachers to understand better. This kind of combination could definitely help students get used to English teaching system without misunderstanding of knowledge. 
Another feature of international schools is the abundant activities. In normal Chinese high schools, students do not have enough chance to do some social activities. I was study in an international high school. Except the course works, we had various activities. For example, my school held "Shark Tank" in our junior year-it is a program featuring students pitching their business ideas in order to secure investment finance from a panel of venture capitalists. Every student took part in this activity and used their own ideas to set up a virtual company. Through this activity, we utilized knowledge into practice, and had a preliminary impression about how to set up a company. I believe this kind of experience would help me a lot in my future career. 
The people who believe international schools are beneficial think that after graduate from international schools, students could easily be used to their college life in western countries. Indeed, speaking and listening are the most significant skills when students attend college. The first difficulty international students would faced is the understanding of lecture. According to the statistics of Education Department of China, there were 93,768 students go to American universities. More than half of these international students were graduated from international high schools. Some of my friends are from normal high schools in China. At first, they all had some trouble with understanding what the lecture instructor said. Since they never truly experience a lecture taught by an English speaker, they surely would have difficulties with listening. However, students who are from international schools would rarely have the same problem. They are already used to the language used in class. 
Yet some people think international schools are not beneficial. In normal Chinese high school, students could learn lots of Chinese history knowledge and culture. Some traditional poems and articles are essential. Moreover, foreign teachers in international schools need more certification before they start teaching. In 2013, a foreign teacher in an international school in Beijing was reported to be a wanted criminal of England. The lack of regulation is irresponsible to the students. 
In conclusion, international schools in China are still a developing field. For the future of students, attending international schools is beneficial to them. 
Reference 
The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) of China: http://www.stats.gov.cn/ztjc/zdtjgz/zgrkpc/dlcrkpc/dcrkpcyw/201104/t20110428_69407.htm 
Savva, M. (2013). International schools as gateways to the intercultural development of North-American teachers. Journal of Research in International Education, 12(3), 214-227. Institute of Education, University of London, UK 
http://jri.sagepub.com/content/12/3/214.short 
Hayden M.(2006). Introduction to International Education. London, SAGE Publications Ltd. http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=Vpazm E97j7o C&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=Introduction+to+International+Education&ots=8o U5x Rmtf C&sig=4k4Va MGcxdv Kv Yk FJjo ORGO-_0c#v=onepage&q=Introduction%20to%20International%20Education&f=false 
Foreign Teachers and International Schools 3 
