Argument Around Smartphone Obsession: Why We Are Always Scare? 
In the nowadays society, smartphone obsession has became a problem that influenced nearly all the citizens. Even though some people may not admit the fact, but the truth is nearly all the individuals in the modern society live under the pressure of smartphone addiction. There is also the fact that most people regard smartphone obsession as the dreadful monster. People always tend to scare and escape from it. Nevertheless, smartphone obsession can be harmful doesn't means it can not be helpful. Just like Heroin, which can be fatal drug but also lifesaving medicine at the same time. Even though smartphone obsession can got negative influence over our life, we can still employee it to benefit our life with well control and it is not very hard to control our desire to overuse smartphone. 
Firstly, control smartphone is not as hard as what we thought. Even some scholars and experiments are exaggerating the difficulty to overcome the smartphone obsession, what is different from the reality. I borrowed a book from the library talks about how to "Beat your smartphone addiction", and to my surprise, the "book" is a single essay rather than a book as I thought. The name of the essay is "Four Steps For Beating Your Smartphone Addiction" by Gladding, Rebecca Schwartz, Jeffrey M. The essay was first published on the magazine Forbes in 2011. The author states the opinion that smartphone is not really hard to control and provided four steps to control it: aware of what's going on, find the reason of the desire, focus on important things first and control the impulse to check phone Gladding, Rebecca 
Schwartz, Jeffrey M. Forbes 6/9/2011, p17-17. 1p. In simple term, what really matters in the process to control the smartphone addiction is the desire, or impulse I personally like to use "focus". Determine the priority differences between different tasks in life is the basic ability for us. There is no reason to believe that determine the differences between have lunch and do a urgent assignment is easier than determine the differences between play smartphone and finish an essay that is going to expire in 1 hour. The reason why many people feel got trapped by smartphone is they did not really regard smartphone as one part of their life just like lunch or work assignment and did not use their value to judge the priority. 
Furthermore, people are actually got addicted to the information provided by the smartphones instead of smartphone itself. The modern era is an era of information explosion. Smartphone is not the only media to provide large amount o information. A less determined individual will be trapped by the TV addiction, PC addiction and other multifarious of addictions even without smartphone addiction. The critical problem is always the limit of human ourselves, instead other factors that we can not decide. 
However, there are some people hold the opinion that smartphone addiction should be completely abandoned because they believe there are nothing can be really helpful to our life if it can be harmful. This point is different from the reality. Just consider the wine. American used to totally ban the sell, produce and drink of wines: The Prohibition Movement from the End of 1800s to 1930s But what really happened in history is the drinking of wine did not disappear at all. Instead, people started to make wine by themselves and wine got even more popular. The smartphone today is the wine yesterday, and even more popular: children under 21 can not drink wine but can own a smartphone. Any rough methods to prohibit the smartphone will lead to a even more serious situation. Still, the subjective factors are always more important than the objective factor. What really critical is always our human. 
In conclusion, the smartphone is not as scary as the traditional ideas described. What we need to do is to control it, use the smartphone to benefit our lives instead to say "no" rudely. 
