P5D1 Why choose computer science as major 
April 16, 2015 
Why choose computer science as major 
Nowadays, more and more people choose computer science as their major. There are two reasons for this decision. First, computer science is very easy to find a job. Second, students who graduate from this major get very high salary. Those two reasons may sound a little bit material, but those are two important factors when students choose a major. However, some people think that computer science only suit a few people. From my perspective, computer science is a very wide range. People can lots of things in this major. People who said that are too subjective. 
One of reasons that people think computer science is not suitable for most people is that computer science is too hard to learn. Most students won't even pass first professional class in computer science major, which suppose to be the easiest class in computer science major. Some people may say that passing rate of computer science is way lower than physics or most of engineering classes. However, people did not realize that computer science is like a language. Students need time to get used to it, which explain why most students failed first computer science course. Students need to learn and memorize syntax and grammar of computer science language. Once students get hold of syntax and grammar, they can improve their coding ability rapidly by practicing lots of small program. Therefore, computer science is easier than other subject because students never learn computer language before, but they can master it in a year. Unlike computer science, students already learned other subject such as math, chemistry or physics for lots of years. Students should focus on grammar and syntax instead of algorithm at beginning, so they can have a solid foundation when they continue pursuing this major. 
Another reason people think computer science is for small amount people is that people would under lots of pressure if they work in IT industry. For example, students who chose security track, which is write application for bank or some high-classified organization. They need to make sure that no one can hack their program, which means their program cannot have one single bug in it. Those people are taking a risk that they may get fired because they made a minor mistake in their program. However, every job has its risk. This is not success if people don't take chance. It may seem too rigorous for those programmers, but it is their responsibility to make their program perfect. No matter what job people work on, they should have work ethic. Furthermore, people who work hard and dedicate to produce a perfect program usually get promoted, so they do not need to program or do research anymore. In the opposite, people who always worried about their job and do not how to handle those pressure usually replaced by younger and better programmers. 
Computer science is a promising major. If students can keep calm and dedicate to it, they will get reward. There is nothing in the world can be defined as too hard for people. People create this major, so it means students can and have ability to learn it. Any occupation is hard if people want to do their best. Computer science is hard to learn if people do not have programming background, but it does not mean it is too hard for people to learn it. As long as students dedicate to it, they will have a promising future. All in all, people should choose computer science major not only because it pays well, but also because it is manageable. If students know how to learn it, they will find it's interesting and not hard. 
