Argumentative Essay First Draft 
March 29th,2016/3/29 
Gender Inequality: Take It Serious or Easy 
Whether the current condition of gender inequality is critical has always been a controversy subject. On one hand, Dr. <name> once mentioned, the current situation is not a result of gender prejudice but a result of culture environment, thus, the equality tendency is upward. On the other hand, majority of economists and socialists hold the view that females are facing tough situation. According to Corsetti, females contributed to the society largely but not getting even close enough credit for that. According to my experiences and background, I would show agreement to the majority. There is, as shown by Corsetti and Noseleit (2014), a discouragement over professional females. Therefore, females did not and can hardly achieve gender equality. 
Equal occupations choices and payment is a significant part of gender equality. Women's labor force participation (LPF) is a important factor of economic environment; also, it is a great expression of profession equality. The reason why many researchers would put major focus on LPF is obvious. 
According to Corsetti, women's labor force participation had risen by more than 25% in past thirty years. Yet professional women are still facing were still 18.8% of lower payment. The reason why there was a payment gap between genders is that females were supposed to and had to sacrifices for their family. The inequality in occupation can produce $15,000 per year, $700,000 for a human-life payment gap. Furthermore, Noseleit (2014) discovered that children play important roles in decision making of females in small businesses. As in the traditional thinking, it is hard to recognize whether a female choose to start her own business is for business success or flexibility for family care. Due to these stereotypes, females are less likely to receive loans and other products, which lead to discouraging condition for females in small businesses. Also, Fernandez and Wong presented family and wage structures as two key features that contributed to changes in LFP. The instability of family would result in a obvious increase in women's labor force participation and saving rate. While facing conflicts with their partners, females would pay attention to their jobs and increase their savings. The reason why divorce risk would result in this phenomenon is that females are automatically trying to protect themselves from poverty. Also, the data depicts that males would decrease their savings under this condition. Therefore, females' behavior is also seeking for stable marriage savings. This point is called a 'compromise' (p321) by Fernandez and Wong. 
While most researchers choose to deliver negative results and predictions, Dr. <name> presented the significant impact of culture environment and how positive the future would become. She argued that gender role difference and payment gap can be a result of culture traditions rather than a result of gender discrimination. However, I can hardly agree with her ideas personally. According to our conversation, I acknowledge that Dr. <name> has barely experienced gender prejudice and discrimination as a U. S. citizen who has been brought up by well educated parents. As a result, she may have not experienced how hard the gender inequality situation is. On the other hand, I have experienced gender discrimination directly. My father's business partner doubted my ability of handling business as a female right to my face. I realized that some people considered females as second level human-beings. I felt not only angry but also sad over this issue. I am glad that someone does not have to feel this anger, but apparently gender inequality is an existing critical problem. 
As a female, I would be glad if people achieved gender equality. But the reality demonstrates that the condition of gender inequality is still critical. Currently, females are still facing unequal payment and limited professional choices in personal and social situation. However, the condition Dr. <name> introduced is a actual story of gender equality. I would predict females will be able to gain gender equality in most places. It should be just a matter of time if females can group together and fight for our rights. 
