Argumentative Paper, Draft 3 
04/23/2016 
Health Insurance Marketplace: The Drawbacks 
	We all want the best for ourselves, our loved ones and our properties. Therefore, we do our best to protect ourselves and our loved ones from unfortunate accidents and mishaps. However, there are times when we were unable to protect ourselves and our precious belongings from natural disasters, dangers and accidents. Due to our crucial need of security, we purchase insurance as a form of protection against unfortunate incidents for instance, vehicle accidents, bodily injuries and diseases. Insurance in fact does not protect us directly against these incidents like an armor does but it works as a guarantee that the expenses incurred from these accidents will be taken cared off. 
As we know, health insurance is one of the most important type of insurance. However, not all people can afford to purchase one because of financial difficulty and lack of information. In order to make health insurance affordable to those with financial difficulty, Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obama Care) was introduced. This program was also introduced to curb the insanely huge profits of for-profit health insurance providers and to ensure that insurance companies provide better quality insurance with an affordable price. Even though Obama Care is a program pregnant with a lot of social benefits as claimed on its official website, obamacarefacts.com, I still think that the benefits do not outweigh its costs due to several reasons which I will present in the following paragraphs. 
	A lot of Obama Care supporters believe that it is a good program that helps tens of millions of uninsured Americans to gain access to an affordable, high quality health insurance through Health Insurance Marketplace. Furthermore, over half of uninsured Americans can also get free or low cost health insurance and some can get help on out-of-pocket costs using state's Health Insurance Marketplace (Obama Care Pros and Cons, obamacarefacts.com). Under the Affordable Care Act, all Americans are required to purchase health insurance, but they are given subsidies to make sure the insurance affordable. Why is it mandatory for everyone to purchase a health insurance? Based on my interview with Professor Penney, Health Insurance Marketplace works by using the Law of Large Numbers which means a large number of participants are required to enroll in the program to spread costs evenly hence, reducing the cost of insurance, which in this case are the young, healthy people who are not in dire need of health insurance (personal communication, February 23, 2016). From Professor Penney's explanation, we can deduce that the government need a large number of people to enroll in this program to distribute costs evenly and thus be able to provide less expensive health insurance to those who cannot afford one before. However, to realize this noble cause, the government introduced new taxes on medical devices and pharmaceutical sales to high earners, large businesses and health insurance providers (Roland, 2015). In order to gain an insight on what Americans themselves think about this program, I casually asked a lot of my American friends on their opinions towards Obama Care and a number of them said that they are more willing to pay for the fine imposed for not purchasing the insurance since it is relatively cheaper than the cost of purchasing one. Some families who were previously insured before the ACA resort to opt out from this program. They did that because they discovered that it is more reasonable to pay the individual mandate penalty and purchase regular health care than to pay for monthly premiums for an insurance coverage which physicians and hospitals are opting out from (La Couture, 2014). Several of my friends even equate the action of forcing everyone to purchase an insurance as forcing someone to swallow medicine even if that person refuse to do so. Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan American organization which conducts numerous public opinion polls and demographic and empirical social science researches came up with a survey result showing Americans' views on the Obama Care program which I will show in the table below. 
Table 1 
Most American Have Not Felt Impact of New Health Care Law 
Note: Adapted from Pew Research Center, by Drake B. 2013. 
	From the table above, we can see that 63% of Americans say that they have yet to see any impact of this program to themselves and their families and 41% believed that Obama Care brought negative impacts to themselves and their families. Besides, 38% Americans said that the effects so far towards this country has been negative while only 24% believed it brought positive impacts to the country. In the future, majority of 47% believe that Obama Care will bring negative impact to the United States of America compared to 35% who think of it as vice versa (Pew Research Center, 2013). From this public opinion survey, we know that quite a large number of Americans actually see Obama Care as ineffective and brings negative effects to them, their families and the country. 
	On the other hand, a lot of Obama Care proponents believe that this initiative helps to control the skyrocketing profit of health insurance providers and at the same time protects clueless consumers from insurance companies' tactics that might increase patient healthcare costs or restrict their healthcare coverage. Looking back to my previous research on this topic, the Insurance Information Institute (III) reported that insurance industry's profits in the third quarter of 2015 was $44 billion which was $6. 2 billion more than the profit earned in the first nine months of 2014. The $44 billion in 2015 was the highest nine months total since 2007 (Hartwig, 2016)! It is undeniably a good move to implement Obama Care under the Affordable Care Act to curb insurance companies' insanely huge profits however, since the ACA imposes pressure to the companies to come up with best quality insurance at an affordable price, some insurance companies and healthcare providers are planning to withdraw themselves from this program because they are losing profits. Based on an article on the Los Angeles Times website titled "How an Insurance Company Screwed Up on Obamacare", the executives of the United Health Group which is the United States' biggest private healthcare provider threatened to leave the Health Insurance Marketplace (Obama Care) as early as 2017 because they have been losing millions of profit due to Affordable Care Act (ACA) exchange plans (Hiltzik, 2016). Due to the pressure faced by insurance companies to maintain the unrealistically low cost of exchange plans, providers are being reimbursed at financially unsustainable rates thus causing a lot of physicians and hospitals to decline to accept insurance plans issued through exchanges. Ironically, this refusal to provide affordable care negates the intention of this program to make health insurance accessible to all (La Couture, 2014). 
	As widely advertised on the Obama Care official website, Obama Care is believed to also help employees of businesses with more than 50 employees to get health insurance coverage by awarding them with tax credits to help lower their costs. This action is good to improve employees' social benefits; however, it is projected that another 3 to 5 million people could lose their company-sponsored health care plans since these businesses will find it more cost-effective to pay the penalty and let their employees purchase their respective insurance plans on the Health Insurance Exchange. Apart from that, based on a report by Congressional Budget Office (CBO), it is estimated that there will be 2. 3 million fewer full time workers by 2021 as a result of the ACA-a bad sign for the growth of the economy (The Effects, CBO, 2012, para 3). This is because some workers logically will choose to forgo employment after obtaining coverage under the ACA, while some employees will voluntarily reduce their working hours. They do that because as their income rises, they will have lesser insurance subsidies and they may even have to pay for the new taxes like the high earners, so the workers will have less incentive to work more or at all. There is also a probability that the employers will cut employees' hours, hire fewer workers or offer lower wages to new employees to avoid or compensate for a new fine on employers that do not pay for insurance of employees who work more than 30 hours per week (Goldfarb & Goldstein, 2014). 
After reading and researching on the effects of Obama Care, I came to a conclusion that Obama Care is not necessary to be implemented since it causes more negative effects than positive effects. This is because this program benefits the poor but it burdens the health insurance companies, hospitals, high earners and not to forget, the economy. Even though it is still early to judge the effectiveness of this program, we can clearly see how this program triggers some negative consequences that will induce loss to a lot of parties in both short run and long run. The drawbacks include implicit taxes imposed as a result of the healthcare subsidies, falling profits of health insurance companies, reimbursement at financially unsustainable rates and the attitude of a group of employees and employers who take advantages on the health insurance subsidies for their own benefits which in the long run will hurt the economy of the United States. 
