How to international students eat healthily in American dining courts? 
Are the foods offered by colleges and schools in Unite State healthier than China? According to the research published by China Education Online, more than 400,000 Chinese students decide to study abroad in Unite State every year. Most of the students are very young, and they have to eat in dining court every day like I do. Therefore, it is important to know that Chinese students can eat healthily in American colleges and schools' dining courts. I believe that foods offered by Chinese colleges and schools are little healthier than American. Thereby, dining courts in Unite State need to offer more vegetables soup and steam vegetables, avoid overcooking and change the buffet police. 
Steam vegetables and vegetables soup contain more nutrients which can absorb by people than raw vegetables and overcooked vegetables. Firstly, Dr. Miller explains that the cooking methods depend on the vegetables themselves. Some vegetables need to be cooked to release more nutrients, and some vegetables contain more nutrients when they are raw. Secondly, according to the online article "Raw vs. Cooked?" published by Dr. Fuhrman Company, people should eat more vegetable soup and steam vegetables. Vegetables soup contains nutrients in vegetables and liquid; if people take both of them people can absorb more nutrients than take raw vegetables. And steam vegetables can release more nutrients. Thirdly, nutritionist Tricia Sedgwick describes that people should cook vegetables in medium-high temperature with good quality oil. Heat can help people digest some nutrients in vegetables, but high heat might let vegetables form toxin compounds. 
Offering American buffet is not a good way to control overweight and obesity. Firstly, Dr. Miller points out that American buffets give people too many choices and too many kinds of foods. People always want to taste all of the food offered in buffets, and they don't feel full when they eat buffets. Secondly, people have to pay the food before they eat. Therefore, they always don't want to waste the money and they eat as much as they can to make their money worth. It is bad for their health, and it can increase the chance to be overweight and obesity. Thirdly, according to Diane Duke Williams's summary of an article written by Ross Brownson, people live in rural areas are easier to be gain weight than people in urban areas, because the people live in rural who eat buffets and fast food more often. 
Colleges and schools should bake food more than fry food. Firstly, in my interview with Dr. Miller, she claims that baking is a little bit better. People can use less fat or oil to bake food, but it is easy to be overcooked. The overcooked part can form harmful compounds to hurt people's bodies. Yet for frying, people should use more fat or oil and put food into oil. People will absorb too much oil if they fry food. If people use good quality oil to fry food, it is a good way to take fat. 
Some people might doubt that foods offered by colleges and schools in Unite State are healthier than China. I believe that they may be right, yet there are many unhealthy foods offered by dining courts in American colleges and schools. Firstly, dining courts in American colleges and schools always offer many fast foods to save students time. But most of the fast food cooked with a lot of oil or fat, and with less vegetables. It is not a good way to control overweight, and it cannot help students to intake vegetables and fruits. Secondly, most of the dining courts offer American buffets to give students more choices to let they make their own decisions. However, according to the research, freshmen can gain weight almost 15 pounds when they eat at colleges' dining courts, because there are too many different foods in buffets. Therefore, the foods offered in dining courts in China are healthier than Unite State. 
Finally, dining courts in colleges and schools in China are little healthier than Unite State. American dining courts should offer more vegetables soup and steam vegetables, and less fast food with too much oil. Dining courts in American colleges and schools should offer less buffets to control students' obesity. 
