4/26/16 
China welcomes changes brought by two-child policy 
China child policies never fail to draw attention. The history of one-child policy in China dates from 1980, and ends up with the publication of two-child policy in late 2015 "One-child policy",2016. The latest twist that Chinese government officially abolished one-child policy and permitted two children per family finally took place after 35 years. It was a remarkable step of Chinese Communist Party which always claims to serve the people. However, the seemingly advancing two-child policy accompanies with the doubt whether it will eventually make a difference. From where I stand, I am convinced that China will achieve the goal it set for two-child policy, but how China will create a fine environment for the new policy to work decides how long China will reach the destination. China two-child policy will finally make sense if proper efforts are done to maximize its effects. 
The original reason why China put the one-child policy was to deal with overpopulation personal communication, March 25, 2016. As Figure 1 shows, the growth of population literally slows down even until today in China. However, switching view from population control to labor demands, Chinese government now can witness a striking shortage of labor in work force mainly because of a decrease in the number of young people. At the same time, there also exist increasing aged people who are retired, but the ratio between the old and the young shows obviously that there are not enough younger people able to support old folks. personal communication, March 25, 2016. In addition, due to the strict one-child policy and traditional family prefer to boy babies, forced abortions were not uncommon to see especially when the family knew the mother bore a girl baby. As Figure 2 shows, the phenomenon of China gender imbalance today stands out. Under such circumstances, no policy other than two-child policy can be better in adjusting these population ratios, thus easing the demographic crises. 
Figure 1. Population growth rate %. Population growth rate refers to the average annual percent change in the population. Copyright 2015 by CIA World Factbook. Reprinted with permission. 
Figure 2. China's gender gulf. Copyright 2015 by CNN. Reprinted with permission. 
As is referred above, the problem of lack of labor is becoming severe, which on the other hand is a potential threat to China economy. In an economical perspective, the conduction of new two-child policy is also persuasive. Birth of more babies not only meets the demands of labor for the future work force, but also indicates opportunities for industries. Increasing population boosts consumption, which means more profits for sellers. Present situation reveals that China economy to some extent relies on other countries. However, in order to develop China's own economy, importing goods is not the best choice; that is to say, increasing consumption may more or less encourage China to invest more in domestic industries personal communication, March 25, 2016. In this way, more rising industries will appear and China economy will become more independent. Right now, as shown in Table 1, China's GDP has already reached a high rank; but if China can work more on innovations instead of simple manufacturing, it can look forward to a brighter prospect. In addition, it is time that China realizes the significance of the safety issue. Proper regulation is one of the most essential foundations created for the implementation of China two-child policy. 
Table 1. Projected GDP Ranking 2015-2020. Copyright 2016 by Statistics Times. Reprinted with permission. 
When talking about China two-child policy, other important issues are resources and environment. More consumption requires more production, and a lot of productions come from non-renewable resources. There come worries that earth cannot handle China additional babies as China nowadays has already had the biggest population in the world. What's more, China has a bad reputation for its pollution treatment. However, challenge is reversely opportunity. China two-child policy can in this way be regarded as a revolutionary policy. Based on the harsh situation and the new policy, it is China's duty to come up with ideas to deal with the urgent issues. In other words, two-child policy may trigger changes in China, such as exploring alternative renewable resources in order to meet demands of more people and coming out effective laws so as to reduce pollution and develop green economy. 
Today, thanks to the new two-child policy, China is ready to welcome changes. The new law helps China in different ways, ranging from relieving government burden of supporting old people to encouraging transforms in industry management and environmental treatment. As a country which has a distinct regime, China shows the true meaning of having the backing of the people by publishing the two-child policy. However, a simple law does not necessarily mean a complete success. It is people's joint efforts that carry China to the destination. If everyone can strive for the course of the development of China, the country which has the biggest population is bound to experience a prosperity. 
