P5d1 
April 10/2015 
Should international students prepare early for job-hunting and decision-making of staying or not? 
Three are many reasons that make me consider this topic or question is worth to argue. Based on the situation that more and more international students, especially Chinese students are streaming into the US, job-hunting or decision-making of staying or not is considered a very important thing by a lot of students, also their elder family members. 
The first time I was thinking about this question, my answer was no, because I thought the most important thing in college especially in freshmen and sophomore year that I should do is study, which is also my parents' requirement before I came to the US. I naturally considered job-hunting the mission that we can easily complete right after graduation. I also thought we can easily make our own decisions whether staying or back when we are about to graduate. However, when I started to make some friends who are junior or senior, their experiences and feelings about graduation totally changed my mind. Most of my friends who are close to graduation regret for not preparing earlier for job-hunting or not making a decision earlier whether staying in the US or coming back. From then on, I found that the time for us to finding a job or determine our future is pretty limited and pretty precious, and it can never be easy to find a job or make a good decision right after graduation if you don't even think about it before. So, it's important for us, international students, to prepare early for job-hunting and decision-making. 
On the one hand, I would like to talk about the reason why I think the time for international students to know about the job market and find a job is pretty limited and starting early is important. To prove this point, I interviewed <name> who is an ambassador also a helping staff in Center of Career Opportunity especially for international students. Based on Rosie's point, major choosing has very little influence on the success rate of job-hunting for international students, however, the time used to prepare influenced a lot. She also mentioned that, even though there is a plan named STEM set by the US government for international students whose major is science, engineering or technology in order to provide additional time for their job-searching, a lot of students may still find it hard to overcome the time limitation. Some of you may wonder about the GPA problem, which is another factor that may affect the consequence of job-hunting. However, Rosie told me that GPA is just a small part of factor because the US Companies don't want to hire people who only know how to study. Comparing to getting a higher GPA, she highly recommends international students to start early to explore the job market, because she is very familiar with the international students' visa processing which may need a lot of time to finish. Also, she considers internship a vital factor, which can determine whether or not companies can accept an international student. However, it is always hard to find internship if students don't start early. As you can see, from experts' perspective, nothing is more important than getting start early for job-hunting, especially for international students who really want to get a job after graduation. 
In conclusion, after interviewing, reading and researching, I'm more confident to say that international students should prepare early for job-hunting and decision-making of staying or not, which is also a very responsible recommendation. 
