Draft #1 
November 17, 2015 
Feminism 
As the development of history, the social status of female are increasing and women are gradually having more consciousness of pursuing the equality of male and female. Many girl friends surrounding me who stated themselves as feminists are extremely passional to have feminism activities. They set up a club of female leadership of school, advertise the equality of men and women in community and even join parade to against sexual discrimination and the unfairly treat of women. And they stated feminism should be expanded in the society. But every time they did such things, there were always some objections. Some people still regard feminists as monsters, label them as "mannish women"(Ding, 2007, p. 111) They think feminism should not exist. So it happen to me that why there's such conflict? To get the answer, I searched the documents about the origins and developments of feminism, especially the feminism in China. I interviewed two experts of feminists to know the concept and situation of modern feminism. At last, I found I would like to support feminism. 
Feminism is range of movement and ideologies that share a common goal: "to define, establish and achieve equal political, economic, cultural, personal, and social rights for women."(Beasley, 1999, p. 3-11) When I asked my feminists what is the feminism, they said fit is about seeking same status and opportunities for women in every fields as men rather than asking more power or superiority for women. "Especially objecting the sexism, sexual exploitation and sexual oppression" said by Ji Geng, female founder of the biggest Chinese feminism website. Feminism used to "set up movement to campaign for women' rights including right to vote, to education, to work, to have equal pay and the right of having opportunity of choosing marriage." (Echols,1989) It seems the campaigns won because women now have these rights. Even some rights are protected by the law, for example, Chinese Second Law on marriage, Law on protection of rights and interests of women (Angeloff and Liber, No. 12 China Perspectives, p.20) . Females still get less respect compared to males. "The main goal of modern feminism has changed: we still want ask equal rights, but more importantly we are pursuing for psychological agreements " said by Ji Geng. 
It is abstract to me about the psychological agreements of women. As far as I was concern, women are respected, because there's statement always said that "the ladies first" But Ji Geng tell me the statement comes only because men regard women as vulnerable that need their help. "The truth is women are are born with inequalities. Since we were a fetus, we were forced to be induced an abortion. Girls are asked to stay at home while boys can play crazy outside. By the time we're adult, if we don't get married, we would have an imputation of no-wanted women, while unmarried men can be regarded as eligible bachelors. If we're married, we may be abused unless we procreate a boy. There are countless examples. We are not respected" I heard from Ji Geng. 
The another perception claims women are now equal to men, and there's no need of feminism. This is what majority think. They think feminism is a group that advocates women should have the pewee to control the society. "This is ridiculous! Don't you think women have already earn enough? As you know, women are treated as goods in ancient time, but now you have same opportunity as men. You can get educate, you can find a job, you can decide your marriage, and there're Women Protection Laws! The laws can protect you" said <name> who is opponent of feminism. By the time I was asking his opinion of feminism. There's a new taken place in China and was spread widely on Chinese Internet. The new is about a girl raped by a drunk man, the reason it's popular was that the drunk man left phone number to the victim and told her call him if she got pregnant. The new shocked me. I ask <name> why this thing happen even though there's a law. He became silent for a while and respond "It's minority. At least, the drunk man know to be responsible." 
At this time, I agree with Ji Geng, women are not respected. It is because the less of respect to women, the drunk man can unscrupulous harm the girl. And because the less respect, Yuan can think it only take place unmeant and the he regarded the criminal as responsible. There's law prohibits the rape to woman, but the case still exist. It doesn't mean people are not afraid of laws, but if the punishment of such law isn't heavy, men would not care. But the respect made by law is absurd. 
As I mentioned above, the main conflict between feminism and non-feminism is psychological agreements. Even if we have consciousness of sexual equality and have some rights, there still are some opinion that women are lower than men, women should serve men. I support that feminism should exist and expand the scale. 
