p5d3_arg 
April 15th 
Do Not Blame Antibiotic for Antibiotic Resistance 
	Antibiotic is a special kind of metabolic product produced from microorganisms, advanced animals and plants. This typical type of metabolic product can interfere the growth of other kinds of living cells. People have found tens of thousands 
of natural antibiotics and hundreds of them are used in clinical treatments which these treatments have saved millions of lives. However, the antibiotic resistance, something that develops in the bacteria and allows the bacteria to be more capable of surviving antibiotic, has been more and more serious as years came by. The antibiotic resistance that caused by overly taken antibiotic can help the bacteria to be developed into ones that more difficult to kill, which can prevent medication to work on curing the diseases that are used to be easily cured. People used to believe that antibiotics as a savior and now it becomes a destroyer. 
	It is wrong to blame antibiotic itself for the antibiotic resistance the human race is facing today. Human beings as the lambs, seems to be create with innocence, but we overplayed the fire as antibiotics and the fire burns ourselves. According to Dr. <name> (2016), a professor from South China Agricultural University, proposed the idea in a previous interview that human is the main problem and human has failed to accept some simple truths about nature. Antibiotic exists even before human beings and everything that lives are part of the nature. Human is just one of the by-products of the evolution process. The body system that developed inside human being is today started millions of years ago, and antibiotic has coexist with us for a long time. There is definitely nothing wrong with antibiotic itself. (<name> , personal communication, March 1st, 2016) 
	Additionally, the antibacterial substances that we are using nowadays are actually not fully understood by us. It is wrong to blame that the antibiotic itself when it is not working. Human and the careless researchers are the ones to be blame when they ignore the negative effects of the antibacterial substance and focus too much on how the antibiotic can be beneficial. Mahida(2016) has written a discussion on the judgment of antibiotics, both on scientific and ethical point of view. As antibiotic is a powerful biochemical substance that developed from the nature and was now manufactured through labs. Patients that are noted in Mahida(2016) often describe the antibiotic as a beautiful yet terrifying substance. As a matter of fact, it's hard for the patients to imagine something that saved so many lives but could now be harmful to themselves by preventing medications to work on them. Mahida(2016) claimed that it is now important that scientists should be focusing on developing a better treatment and method to use antibiotic rather than keep focusing on using more and more antibiotic. 
	Moreover, even though antibiotic itself has nothing wrong because it is part of the nature, the livestock industry has been overusing the antibiotics due to its low price and ability to cure diseases. Kennedy(2013) proposed that "antibiotic resistance will be solved only when we end the use (or rather, the abuse) of these agents in veterinary medicine." As he proposed that the problem have never come from the antibiotic but the human beings that use them in the wrong way, such as nuclear energy can be use as efficient energy source but can also be use as extremely destructive nuclear bombs. 
	However, even though humans messed up with the use of antibiotic which led to the serious problem of antibiotic resistance that develops in ourselves, some people still believes that the problem comes from the antibiotics itself. Most parents I know simply reject to use antibiotic under all circumstances, as they believe that it is something unnatural. I do believe that the standpoint is wrong due to it is a way of stereotypical thinking. This kind of view is a typical kind of "the single story" understanding, which the opinion is developed from a lack of scientific background information and it is more emotional than rational. Human beings like to disguise things and bent the fact so that they can deceive themselves and blame the others for the faults. The judgment of antibiotics is very similar to the judgment of the monster in Frankenstein. It is incorrect for us to understand that the monster is a monster when its creator Dr. Frankenstein said so. As Mary Shelly used intertextuality to reflect that the monster actually have self-awareness and it has never done anything harmful to human, it become ridiculous that most people in the book claims that the monster is a horrible creature. Antibiotic was disguised by the people at first to be the angel who saves lives and now to be the devil who takes lives. No matter how people disguise antibiotic, the true identity of it has never changed: it is only a simple molecules which is a part of the nature. It does kill bacteria and it is helpful for fighting against diseases, but the antibiotic resistance was build up by human who use it in the incorrect way. 
	In conclusion, antibiotic is a simple metabolic product that develops from the nature and it is extraordinary helpful when the correct amount of it is used. There is nothing wrong with antibiotic itself due to it has been coexist with human beings since the existence of human beings. The disaster of antibiotic resistance was caused by the misunderstanding of clinical treatment of scientists in the last century, which clinical treatment should focus on treating the body naturally with less side effects instead of treating the body efficiently but ignoring the harmful effects that could have. It is necessary that antibiotic should be judged correctly, so that we make the best use of it and eliminate the antibiotic resistance sooner. 
