Argumentative Essay, Draft 1 
4/2/2016 
The Help of Energy Recycling 
	Pollution has always been a problem in the world since we starts to use none-renewable sources. It can harm the health of people and change the climate, so people found out many ways to decrease the amount of pollution in the world and save none-renewable sources. The main way is to recycle. One way is to recycling all the renewable things like cardboard and plastic, the other way is to recycling wasted materials into clean power and heat, which is called energy recycling. Energy recycling is not widely known by people and because of the huge cost of it, it is not widely accepted. Also, if energy recycling were done incorrectly it would increase pollution instead, so I think energy recycling would not help to decrease pollution overall. 
	The cost of energy recycling is huge, so it is not beneficial enough for people to set the industries up. Just think about the money that cost to recycle heat. It is necessary to set up the pipes and pipe the steam or hot water to thermal users (Casten, 2003). It takes seven more time energy to move a unit of electricity than to move a unit of fuel, which means it takes seven more times energy to move a unit of thermal energy than to move a unit of electricity. To conclude, it takes forty-seven times more energy to move thermal energy from a point to another than to move fuel (Casten, 2003). For new transmission and distribution line, the price for capacity now is $2500/k W, which is really high to afford. From this, we can see the cost of recycling energy and send it to the thermal users would be huge. Due to the huge cost, many businessmen would not choose to set an industry up to recycle energy at the first place. Also, businessmen would hire people from poor countries to extract the none-renewable sources because this is more beneficial. Extracting none-renewable sources would increase the pollution in the world, but the locations that doing energy recycling is too few. The help on decreasing pollution through energy recycling would not match up with the pollution that people creates everyday. So, energy recycling would not help to decrease the pollution over all. 
	People would say that the data online shows the amount of pollution has been decreased because of many places are putting more effort on recycling. That must mean that recycling helps to decrease pollution. However, there are more places that are continuously sending pollution into the world. Wasted water is dumped into the ocean, and burying, burning garbage are happening all the time. All these are happening every minute at many places in the world, which would increase the amount of pollution in the world. Also, many companies are still using large amount of none-renewable sources to produce products that is popular with people. Also, there are many incorrect ways to recycle like burning garbage, which would increase the amount of pollution instead of decrease pollution (Cherkauer, 2016). There are still many countries keep developing the none-renewable sources to make profit from it. The small number of industries and the huge cost of recycling make the process of decreasing pollution much harder than what most people thought. Due to all these reasons, it is really hard for the recycling to make real process on decreasing pollution. Even if recycling were done correctly, this would not always be the best option for people to use to decrease pollution due to the cost and low efficiency. 
	Many countries now are trying to set new laws up to make sure that companies would reuse their wastes to save more energy and decrease the amount of waste that would be produced. Almost every industry would have wastes and heavy industries would have more recyclable wastes. It would save a lot more energy and prevent more pollution if all the industries reuse the wasted materials. But it is important to have a definition to separate by-product and waste materials: "The question is important for industry because companies can do business with by-products whereas waste management only causes extra costs for them"(Levanen, 2015). That is why usually industries do not want to deal with the waste and just dump them. But simply dumping the wastes would only cause more pollution to happen. Also, dealing with waste cannot bring any profit to the industry, so it is not easy to set a law up because the government need to make sure the industries have enough money to keep going. Even though the law is set up, the system, which determines how to use all the wasted materials, can only be determined through experiments and tests. This would cost plenty of time, and the regulation must be changed (Levanen, 2015). All these are not easy to be dealt with, so there is still a long way to go if the government wants to set a law up for recycling wasted materials. 
	From all of the information above we can see it is not easy to set up an industry for energy recycling, and it is not easy to have most industries to reuse their wasted materials. Also, because of the huge cost of recycling, the part of pollution that has been decreased would not match the pollution that human release everyday. So, I think the recycling we have been doing is not enough to decrease the pollution we have overal. We have to put more and more effort into the process to make sure recycling works. 
Reference list: 
Casten, T. R. (2003). Combined heat and power: recycling energy. Power Engineering, vol. 107(9), 26-29. Retrieved from http://web.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=3c07890b-fcb6-42e9-a3e2-f44cee62af54%40sessionmgr4005&vid=1&hid=4106 
Levanen, J. (2015). Ending waste by law: institutions and collective learning in the development of industrial recycling in finland. Journal of Clean Production, vol. 87, 542-549. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/science/article/pii/S0959652614010245?np=y 
1 
