Social Status Impact on Stress 
The debate that the factors of stress differ for different social status has become a hot issue these days. As the world population is increasing, the society becomes more competitive in many ways like getting accepted into colleges for students, job opportunities among the working class group and many more. Thus, it is not surprising for the percentage of American citizens that feel stress increases. According to the American Psychological Association (2011), majority of the Americans are suffering from moderate to extreme stress, with around 44% of them reported that their stress levels have increased since 2006 and this make the topic of stress worth discussing. In this argumentative essay, I planned to analyze the source of stress based on a person's social status and argue that the source of stress is different for each social status. 
According to the Urban Dictionary, stress is a stimulus reaction that will disturb one's physical including mental equilibrium and social status is defined as position or rank of a person within the society. A few examples of social status are students, working class and elder people. Personally, as a student, I feel stressed when I experience changes in lifestyle, increased amount of workload, and during exam periods. 
Most people think that the factors of stress are the same for everyone regardless of their social status. This is due to their shallow and little knowledge on stress as they did not bother to identify the source of their stress when they are feeling stressed up. According to Web MD (2015), those who are lacking of stress knowledge commonly stereotyped factors of stress are due to fear and uncertainty, attitudes and perception, and unrealistic. In my opinion, I personally think that the factors of stress are different for everyone based on their social status as I have done massive amount of research on this specific topic of stress. The sources contributing to a student's, working class people and senior citizen's stress are not similar as they have different social status. 
There are a few factors that trigger a student's stress level. According to Ross, Niebling, and Heckert (2008), there are two main sources of stress for students, which are interpersonal and intrapersonal. Examples of interpersonal are sleeping habits, vacations, eating habits, increased workload and responsibilities and examples of intrapersonal are worrying about college debts. Based on Rizwan, Alvi and Saeed (2010), students also tend to get stressed up due to the teachers' poor communication skills that includes their careless marking. However, according to my interviewee, Ying Loo who is an expert in my topic, based on her own personal experience, as she was also a college student previously, mentioned that the main source of stress among college students are exams and assignments. Time management is also one of the trigger of stress. It is usually hard for any students to balance classes, exams, and club activities as college life is challenging. As a current college student, I personally feel that my source of stress is due to overload of assignment, exams and juggling with my club activities. It can be concluded that stress is unavoidable especially among college students. 
	The factors of stress among the working class group are different compared to the college students group. According to Ying Loo, the factors that cause the stress of this group is usually due to work. For example, too much workload, low wages, office conflicts and long working hours. As she currently falls into this category, she mentioned about her own personal experience, her stress indeed comes from her work. She has long working hours and she has heavy workload due to insufficient workers at her working place. According to Nomaguchi and Johnson (2014), some of those that falls into the working class group that have children tend to have parenting stress. This is because they have to financially support their families. Thus, they have long working hours and have multiple jobs at a time to support their families financially. These contributes to their increment of stress levels. 
	The sources of stress among the elderly are obviously different after knowing that the sources of stress among the college students and working class groups are different. According to Freeborn (2015), for older adults, the main source of stress comes from chronic illness, disability or the loss of a spouse. Financial problems, family problems and the changing of living situation may be the factors of stress for the elderly too. Based on Medicine Online (2015), it states that elderly moving into a nursing home is one of the source of stress. This is due to inability to keep personal belongings, losing control over daily life and also feel abandoned by the family. Similarly to Freeborn (2015), this article also states that the main source of stress among the elderly is losing his or her spouse. This is because loss of a spouse is equivalent of losing companionship and security. Ying Loo also mentioned the similar cause of stress among the elderly. She said that the cause of stress among them is due to the death of their loved ones and chronic diseases. 
The massive amount of information obtained from a variety of sources, can conclude that it is indeed true that the reasons of stress are based on a person's social status in the society. It is proven that the three social status groups which are the students, working class, and the senior citizens, have different factors of stress. Thus, it is essential to learn the strategies to cope with stress. The common way to cope with stress is to take a break and turn to friends and family for support. Stress always comes from a trigger, and being able to identify what is the cause of the stress and managing it will be a big help to cope with stress. Last but not least, if the stress level is escalating, one can always look for help from professionals for medication to help with the stress. 
