The Difference between Chinese and American Education 
In various countries, teaching methodology may seem similar. The purpose of every teacher is to educate his or her students, explaining them new materials and giving tasks. However, the approach to the studying process varies in every country and depends on cultural peculiarities. Thus, the educational systems of the USA and China are quite different and have nothing similar except the teachers and students. The differences are the result of culture and traditions of these two countries. The Americans are more open and easy in communication with their teachers; they tend to work independently and have much practice. On the contrary, the Chinese try to obey their tutors and spend almost all their free time doing home assignments in groups. It is necessary to know the specificity of each educational process when employing Chinese and American graduates because different methods of study lead to different outcomes. Therefore, Chinese students are more likely to become executive and diligent workers, while American students are more creative and independent in their decisions, which is illustrated in the following essay. 
The first important distinction between Chinese and American education is evident in teaching styles. In China, teachers treat their students as "members of their families" (Jackson, 2014). The students respect and obey their tutors as their parents. In the USA, teachers are not so close to their students, and their relations are more official. However, they give their learners more freedom and independence in doing their home tasks, unlike Chinese teachers, who give strict tasks and demand from the students to complete them according to the program. Moreover, in accordance with Chinese tradition, young persons have to comply with older people; that is why a teacher is the highest authority for the children. In the USA, the relations between students and teachers are almost equal, and teachers are easy to get in touch with their learners. Such relationships between educators and students lead to dissimilar results. Chinese graduates are more likely to obey their superiors implicitly, while American graduates will communicate with their bosses gladly and easy. 
The difference in learning process also has a great impact on students. According to Spiegel (2012), many Asian teachers consider their learners not creative and call them "robots." It happens because they study mostly in groups and do not express their personal ideas about the subjects. In a personal interview, a friend of mine, who is well aware of Chinese educational system, told me that the teachers there direct their students at collaborative work so that they would be able to work in a team. On the contrary, American tutors try to develop in their students such skills as self-confidence, independence, and resoluteness for them to become good leaders. They have free will and inspiration to offer their original ideas. Moreover, American students have more time to rest, and they do not do their home tasks on weekends, unlike the Chinese, who have to learn even on Sunday. Thus, different methods of learning lead to diverse results and graduate either prospective performers or chiefs. 
The third difference between Chinese and American education is the organization of studying process. For example, Chinese children attend the same classes with the same classmates during the whole period of study. Moreover, they stay in the same classroom with the same teacher for several years. On the contrary, American students are free to choose their subjects and may go to different classes with different students (12 Differences., 2007). The educators in the USA teach one subject during one year, while Chinese teachers stay with their students for a longer period and continue teaching them in different grades. Besides, American tutors have their personal methods of teaching, and in China, the whole country uses the unique program for all learners. 
In conclusion, each educational system is perfect for its particular culture. If Chinese students prefer collaborative work, and American students choose to conduct independent studies, it does not mean that one of these systems is less or more effective. It depends on culture and traditions, as well as personal views of students and teachers of both countries. However, the differences in the studying processes lead to a diverse outcome. Thus, for example, Chinese graduates tend to become perfect team workers, while American graduates are more likely to become creative and self-directed employees. Educational process of the two countries has special methods and purposes, but the same purpose, which is to follow the traditions and graduate qualified specialists. Therefore, it is important for the future employers to be aware of the differences in this sphere in order to find a perfect worker for their company. Besides, comparison of the teaching processes of China and the USA may help to improve the whole system and define whether there is a need of some changes. 
