Argumentative Essay 
One of the major causes of piracy (copyright infringement) is P2P (peer to peer) file sharing networks. This service which is provided by numerous P2P file sharing websites enables users to exchange data seamlessly. According to Parameswaran, Susarla and Whinston(2001), it not only provides easy exchange of data, but it also protects the identity of both the uploader (the user putting up the content on the website to share) and the downloader (the user downloading the content on his server). Data can be shared with anyone and the identities of the users stays anonymous. 
Governments have no way of regulating the P2P network service industry because the service providers do not interfere with the content put up on their websites. They are merely providing storage space on their servers for their users and also a connection between the seeders (users who have the content stored on their servers/computers) and downloaders (users downloading content on their computers). In other words they are merely providing the link between two computers for seamless exchange of data. According to Lou and Hwang(2009), the people who paid for the data legally are illegally sharing it with other people which is one of the major causes of piracy and this almost entirely happens through P2P networks. 
	Governments believe that P2P network providers should share the identities of the users violating copyrights or that they should be brought down to prevent piracy. I think that this is unacceptable because it would be a violation of the fundamental right of free speech and communication. 
So how can the governments around the world expect that the network providers would monitor the communication between two willing parties or would let the government do the monitoring for them because it would be a violation of basic fundamental human rights. I think that two people should be able to communicate with each other and not have to give any explanation for it. But various governments around the world have imposed several restrictions and regulations on these websites. 
	According to the Britannica Encyclopedia (2016), the governments have to tried to bring down numerous sites such as "thepiratebay.com", "megaupload.com" and several more because they would not comply with the governments regulations. I believe that the regulations imposed on these websites are extremely unfair to the people of the world. The constitutions of most of these governments talk about freedom of speech, freedom of expression. But how is that possible if mere communication between two willing parties is being monitored or even being stopped by the governments? 
	Godwin(2003) believes that that piracy is unfair to the people whose work is being infringed because they are not getting rewarded for their efforts. According to him, if it was not for the monetary rewards, they would not have gone through the onerous task of finishing their work. Labour of any sort, even intellectual is considered to be an onerous task so I agree to the fact that they should be compensated for their efforts. But at the same time they forget that if the laws made by them were enforced to their fullest extent it would cause an even greater information inequality than there is in the world right now. Knowledge is one of the basic necessities in order for one to succeed in life, to have a chance at moving up in the world. The people who cannot afford it should have an equal opportunity to learn and denying them that would be extremely unfair. Knowledge should not be limited to those individuals who are rich. Rodriguez ,Tan and Gkantsidis(2006) believe that having strict laws is not going to deter this problem of copyright infringement. 
I am against the belief held by many people that all information should be made free. That would be another extreme scenario. If that happens then the individuals who can come up with great works will lose their incentives and the growth of humanity will be affected because their knowledge will go away with them and will not benefit the world in any way. Then the whole of humanity is at loss. 
Khouja and Park (2007) believe that reducing the price will increase the legal distribution of the content but at the same time, it will either decrease the royalty received by the person who did the work or significantly reduce the return on investment ratio of the distributors(profit gained on a certain amount of money invested) which makes it an inefficient solution. So what can be done is that those who can afford to pay, should pay for the works whereas those who cannot should get it for free or at a compensated price. This does not affect the rewards of the person who owns the copyright and at the same time everyone gets the same information. This will give the third world countries an equal opportunity to grow. What the people who cannot afford it are doing is not wrong. The law is wrong, it is favour of the corporations to take money from even from people who can barely afford to pay what they are asking. It is time to change our outlook towards this issue and see what is actually happening. 
