Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence 
Based on the three sources from my synthesis paper and also the interview I have conducted, there are various advantages and disadvantages that comes with the evolution of Artificial Intelligence (AI). However, I believe that the disadvantages of AI outweighs the advantages. In this paper, I would provide more evidence as to why I believe AI is malicious due to loss of human jobs, over-reliance on AI, AI does not need to be fully developed to be harmful and AI lacks human emotions. 
The development of AI is more disadvantageous because there would be a loss of job opportunities. Although Mr. <Name> He from my previous interview mentioned that robots with AI would help make up for the lack of young laborers. In some parts of the world, there is a larger population of the older generation and insufficient number of younger generation to do manual labor. He also mentioned that the loss of jobs would challenge humans to take up more creative jobs that robots would not be able to do. Computers with AI would be able to complete the task faster, more efficiently and with less errors. I also believe that a time would come when robots would be able to do every single task humans can do. When that time comes, there would be no jobs left for humans. It makes more sense for companies to use computers instead of human labor. 
The development of AI could also lead to people having a wrong mentality. Although AI could act as support for the general population, people with disabilities, young children or the elderly, it would eventually lead to human's over-reliance on AI. Technology has made people lazy. In a subway, there is an escalator and a flight of stairs right next to each other. However, most people would choose to take the stairs because it makes their life easier and they would also reach their destination faster. The advantages of AI would far surpass the advantages of an escalator. Despite that, this would lead to problems such as obesity and mental illnesses. 
Besides that, I think the development of AI is unfavorable because it does not need to be fully developed to harm humans. There is much speculation from the general population and the mass media that robots with AI would eventually take over the world and end the human race. However, if we put that aside and think rationally, AI does not need to be truly "intelligent" to be harmful. Marcus (2014) argues that computers do not require AI to be dangerous. If there was a bug in a driverless car, the car would crash, endangering the passenger inside the car. The use of AI in war is also growing by using drones or unmanned vehicles to limit soldier casualty. According to Weeks (2011), United States' use of drones has resulted in hostility, especially in Pakistan, where numerous innocent civilians and few criminals have been killed in attacks by drones. Also, there is a huge risk that AI military would fall into the wrong hands. This could even lead a third world war. 
A downside of AI is that it lacks human emotion. Although human emotions get in the way of certain decisions where we are required to think more logically and rationally, but there are still a lot of decisions out there that requires human emotion and compassion. In the interview, Mr. He said that he did not think robots with AI would ever have souls. Hence, they do not have the thing which makes people good or evil or make people feel emotions. AI does not have empathy, it would not be able to put itself in other people's shoes. Although a super intelligent virtual psychologist with abilities such as being able to detect body temperature changes and analyze body language is currently being developed, it would not be able to have human emotions (Luxton, 2014). Hence, the virtual psychologist would not be able to sympathize with the patient, which is an incredibly important trait for doctors in the field of psychology to have. 
In conclusion, the disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence supersedes the benefits. AI would lead to a loss of job opportunities because AI would perform the job much better than humans. Besides that, AI would soon be able to do everything for us and this would lead us to depend too heavily on AI. AI also lacks human emotions, so they might make some irrational decisions where decisions that require sympathy are involved. Although there are benefits that AI could bring to the world, I believe that there are many other disadvantages of AI that could lead to problems in the future. Therefore, we have to be very cautious in developing AI. 
