Cure For Insomnia 
Purdue University 
04/14/2015 
	 Insomnia is a common sleep disorder that happens when people have trouble falling asleep or staying sleep. As all the people know, sleep is a really important part of our lives, if we are sleepless or have poor quality of sleep, we cannot function well in daytime. However, insomnia becomes more and more common at present. "Various studies have noted insomnia to be quite a common condition with symptoms present in about 33-50% of the adult population."(1) Most of people have insomnia, but they don't really care about this problem. In my opinion, I think people who have insomnia should treat it as soon as possible. We need sleep and it is very important. 
	No matter what people's age, sleeping well is important for their emotional and physical health. Recall the interview that I did before, the professor told me that today have more people have insomnia than in the past. At present, people normally work and study from 8 am to 6 pm. They have trouble to gain enough sleep times at night. If people do not get good quality of sleep, it may increase chance of depression, memory problems, faulty judgment and excessive drowsiness. As a teenager, sleep well has big influence on concentration and memory. We can pay more attention on class' content and remember knowledge as well as possible. However, they may become very emotional if they didn't sleep well. They will really mad at some small things. Therefore, people should treat insomnia as a serious problem and deal with it at once. 
	Insomnia may become chronic problem if people never solve it and even adopt it. Some people may have insomnia one night to a few weeks at the beginning, it such not a big deal. However, if they didn't make some changes, this problem may happen with increased frequency. Not only insomnia patients' bad mood and performance can influence themselves, but also affects their family and friends. There is also an increased risk for depression, anxiety, and suicide. Recall the published material that I found before, it talks about the relationship between insomnia and suicide. The longer people have a sleep disorder, the greater risk that they can suicide. Insomnia is a serious problem and it is more difficult to cure if it last for a long time. 
	In order to deal with insomnia, there are several methods. Such as "changing habits that disrupt sleep", "neutralize anxiety when people cannot sleep", "harnesses your body's relaxation response" and "use supplements and medication wisely"(February 2015). These are some possible treatments that I learned from expert. However, if they are not useful for treating insomnia, it is time to consider seeking professional insomnia treatment. 
	Admittedly, some people may have acute insomnia that lasts for less than three months. That sounds not a big deal. Many people didn't care it very much. They may have difficult falling asleep because he drinks a cup of coffee before going to bed or feels nervous about tomorrow's presentation. That only occurs in a short term, even one night. 
.... 
