P5d3_arp 
November 20, 2015 
Should we just lock up all psychopaths in our society? 
For the past hundred years, one of the biggest questions that the people who work in the justice system always ask themselves: should we just lock up all psychopaths in our society? According to Inside the Mind of a Psychopath, it mentions that psychopaths are considered extremely dangerous due to their biological lack of empathy, amazing skills of faking their emotions, or tendency of violent behavior, so this leads to the conclusion that society should lock them up. This is actually morally wrong, because psychopaths are indeed human beings, who are unfortunate to have emotional dysfunctions, and do not deserve to be treated as "disposable". There are three reasons that we should not just lock up all psychopaths: it costs more to imprison them than to treat them; there would be no future benefits, if we just imprison them; and they have found a working treatment for psychopaths, although it is not entirely effective yet. 
The author of Inside the Mind of a Psychopath, Kiels, says "The cost of prosecuting and incarcerating of psychopaths, plus the cost of lives that they destroyed, can go from $250 billions to $400 billions a year." From this statement, it implies that it is extremely not very cost efficient to imprison all psychopaths, since society has to spend a huge amount of money on a lot of aspects of this decision. Firstly, the money is spent in the Police Department or the Federal Bureau of Investigation for finding and catching psychopaths who are serial killers, serial rapists, mass murderers. Once the violent psychopaths are caught, they are proceeded to get public defenders to get in a process of prosecution in court. After getting prosecuted, they will be transferred to prison to serve their sentence. This entire process costs not only a huge amount of money, which is the tax that general public pays, but it also requires so many man hours and efforts from the justice departments. Psychopaths manipulate people into doing things that helps gaining benefits for themselves without having a single conscience about it. This action destroy many lives that is hard to account for, and there is absolutely no amount of money that can repay people that get their life ruined. Hence, imprisoning all psychopaths seems to be a right thing to do, but it would cost an insane amount of money, effort, and time. 
The second reason why we should not just lock up psychopaths is that if society do just lock them up, it does not technically solve the real problem. By imprisoning crime-committed psychopaths, we only take the danger away from the society to a highly secure area, and leave it as the way it is. We, as a society, would be in disadvantage, due to cost that we have to pay to imprison as mentioned above, and also not gain any future benefits. Society would always be in the cycle of dealing with psychopaths where it just starts with catching psychopaths, and ends with putting them in prison. In order to break out of that cycle, society needs to invest more money in finding the way to treat psychopath from the "root". 
Although our society has not yet found the absolute effective way to deal with psychopaths, due to the difficulty of the task and financial investment that our society would need in order to solve some aspect of the problem, there is still an effective treatment, that are currently practiced by many psychological institutes, to deal with psychopaths. The disadvantage of this treatment is that it only works fairly effectively on young psychopaths, since they have not formed a complete personality. According to the article Inside the Mind of a Psychopath, "a new treatment for intractable juvenile offenders with psychopathic tendencies has had tremendous success. Michael Caldwell, a psychologist at the Mendota Juvenile Treatment Center in Madison, Wisconsin, uses intensive one-on-one therapy known as decompression aimed at ending the vicious cycle in which punishment for bad behaviors, which is in turn punished. Over time, the incarcerated youths in the Caldwell's program act out less frequently and become able to participate in standard rehabilitation services." With this treatment, our society is able to handle psychopaths at a much higher level, and is promised a better future. 
With what being stated above, it is not ideal to just lock up all psychopaths. Our society needs to learn a more effective, intelligent, and especially moral to deal with psychopaths. Psychopaths are not completely terrible people and needed to be disposed as much as possible like a lot of people assuming, because they can be effectively trained to be better under correct intensive treatment, which proves that we need to take care of them just like other normal people. Knowing the answer to whether we should just lock up all psychopaths will take away the needs to imprison them all. We not only prevent future horrible crimes, but also save a significant amount of money from doing treatments instead of incarcerating all psychopaths which make our society become more acceptable and loving. 
Work Cited 
4 Cognitive Stages for Child Development. (2014, May 11). Retrieved December 1, 2015, from http://www.learningrx.com/4-cognitive-stages-for-child-development-faq.htm 
Kiels, K., & Buckholtz, J. (2010, October 1). Inside the Mind of a Psychopath. Retrieved November 10, 2015 
