The Disadvantages of Television Advertisements 
	Television advertisements started to appear in the 1940s and nothing stopped them from becoming one of the most common advertising methods today. Television advertisements are greatly appealing and they have the ability to make strong connections with the audience. However, after all of the research that I had done on advertising, I believe that television advertisements has many drawbacks on society, and that more advertising restrictions should be applied. 
	Television advertisements give companies opportunities to spread details about their products to consumers. For example, companies can let consumers know about all the different choices that they are offering. Furthermore, Television advertisements utilize visuals and audio to convey the message which facilitate the catching of the attention of consumers. Thus, there are mainly effective at introducing new products. Moreover, companies have the ability to present their television advertising according to their market needs. For instance, companies can choose showing a commercial between different cartoon shows if they were targeting parents to buy products or services for their children. Despite all the previous advantages, television advertising has many serious disadvantages that overcome its positive side. Such disadvantages are wasting money, overwhelming people, lowering people's self-esteem, and demolishing small business. 
	Television advertising is very expensive and the longer the airing time, the higher the cost. According to Anthony Crupi, a marketing reporter for Adweek news (2011), an investigation that was done by a New York independent media agency, the average price of viewing a 30 seconds commercial on television in 2011 was $108,956. Also, a lot of money is spent on preparing the commercial itself. According to Nancy Wagner, a business reporter from Chron media agency, commercials produced by an advertising agency cost around $342,000 on average for a 30-second commercial. Companies cover their advertising costs by increasing the prices of their products, which means that costumers are paying for the advertising as well as the products. People should donate this advertisement's money or spend it on helping less fortunate people who need assistance in their life instead of giving it for making commercials. For instance, according to the marketing industry website, Emarketer (Aug 22, 2013), around 66. 4 billion dollars for television advertising only were spent on commercials here in the US in 2013, while college students are suffering from debt as they can't pay their educational loans. Moreover, taking people's money and spending it on advertisements is unwise, because during a commercial break, most people decide to change the channel or have a conversation about whatever they were just watching. Thus, they will not pay any attention to the commercial, and all the effort, time, and money will be completely wasted. 
	Advertising makes people more materialistic and less happy with their lives. Materialism is the tendency to consider material possessions and physical comfort as more significant than spiritual values as well as comfort. Materialistic people believe that they can feel happier if they bought more products. However, it has been proven that people who are doing that are actually less happy, despite the fact that they own a lot of different expensive products. One study from Tufts University, conducted by Tim Kasser a psychologist at Tufts University (2002), sums the effects of materialism on people: People who are highly materialistic have lower personal well-being and psychological health than those who believe that materialistic pursuits are relatively unimportant. The pursuit of materials, drives people to become overwhelmed that they cannot feel satisfied with anything, and they become addicted to buying products that they usually don't need. Nonetheless, one of the main causes of materialism is Advertising. A research, conducted by two psychologists (Buijzen & Valkenburg, 2003), concluded that exposure to advertising triggers materialistic values in children. Children who frequently watched television commercials during the experiment held stronger materialistic values than their peers who watched less commercials. Moreover, according to George Monbiot, a reporter at The Guardian (2013, December 09), a paper, published in Psychological Science, stated that people in a controlled experiment who were repeatedly exposed to commercials of luxury goods, experienced increases in material desire, anxiety and depression. The researchers, who conducted the paper, point out that, as people are repeatedly exposed to what is assumed to be the perfect images through advertisements, these effects (material desire, anxiety and depression) are enhanced more. 
	Advertisements do more than just advertising products, especially to women. Advertisements that feature beauty products actually lower women self-esteem. Nowadays, perceptions of style and beauty have been dreadfully distorted. Many women have low-self esteem because they feel they should be thinner and more attractive as well as flawless, just like the fake photoshoped models that they see in advertisements. According to an article, publish by Science Daily (2010, October 26), an experiment was conducted on a group of women and the results supported the claims that commercials effect female consumers self-esteem. The researchers conclude that the exposure to beauty-enhancing products in advertisements definitely lowers women's self-esteem. Female consumers evaluates themselves negatively after viewing an advertisement featuring a beauty product. Advertisements for beauty-enhancing products appear to make them feel that their current level of attractiveness is different and lower from what they would normally be. The reason for that is because women appear to compare themselves to the commercial image's. This can be a serious problem since having low self-esteem could lead to other psychological illnesses such as depression and severe anxiety. 
	In summary, I believe that companies should be allowed to advertise as much as they do now. Restrictions and more attention to the commercials' materials must be applied. Wasting money, causing people to become materialistic, and the undermining on women's feeling should be stopped. This power tool that can transform ordinary objects into highly desirable products should be utilize to educate people about health, financial, and environmental issues so people can contribute in preventing them from happening. 
