Draft#3 
April 27, 2016 
Digital Technology has Positive Influence on Students' Study 
Digital technology, also known as information and communication technology (ICT), constantly gives rise to people's attention when it comes to its non-negligible influence on students' study. With smartphones, tablets and personal computers exploding on the market, the young generation are inevitably influenced by those digital products, so is their study. According to Chen et al. (2015), 86 percent of undergraduates own a smartphone, and nearly half (47 percent) own a tablet. The high ownership indicates widespread use of digital products for study. Internet serves as a great platform where information communicates and integrates and students can have access to it with the help of their digital gadgets. Expanding access to education information, providing flexible study schedule and increasing teaching diversity in class, digital technology stands out in reforming the traditional learning and teaching mode and it brings wonderful benefits to students' life. 
Digital technology provides more convenient access to information which is of much help to students' study. <Name> is a professor in Materials Engineering at Purdue University and every other day he will upload some lecture videos to the Internet to help students review and digest the learning materials. According to my interview with <Name> on February 24, 2016, he embraces digital technology with great enthusiasm and encourages his students to use their laptops or tablets to watch the videos or search for study resources. And his students like those lecture videos because if they can't attend a class they can watch the video to catch up with other students. Digital technology in fact increases the communication between <Name> and his students. His students can learn more than what they are taught in class and professor can get feedback from the comments under the videos. It is believed that both the teacher and students gather more useful information which facilitates teaching and studying. According to Wardlow (2014), technology brings tutors and mentors all over the world to students. Studying from teachers from all over the world and having access to more study resources will definitely broaden students' horizon and enable them to learn more thoroughly. 
Digital technology liberates students from traditional study mode and provide more flexible schedule. Mbah (2010) reported that "ICT is considered to exploit the flexibility of training. The rhythm of study, the allocation of time and the availability of teachers can allow better articulation between private life (studies) as well as a better allocation of time between the various uses," (para. 28). Digital technology provides more access to study resources thus enabling students to learn without the limitation of time and places. If you want to learn a new language, there is always an App in the Appstore which can help you to learn new words and sentences. If you want to study a new software, there are always online videos which teach people how to use it step by step. Study becomes so convenient and accessible that students can adjust their schedule effortlessly to balance their private life and study. <Name>, a student in Mechanical Engineering at Purdue, said that he felt his study efficiency had improved because he could learn according to his own schedule with the help of his ipad or smartphone, reducing the possibility of wasting time. Never can study mode be so "mobile" and students can enjoy the freedom of allocating their time on their own now, (<Name>, personal communication, February 22, 2016). 
Technology and digital media are helping educators do their jobs better and students can benefit from the diversity of teaching method. According to Dwyer (2011), "more teachers than ever are incorporating interactive games, activities, lesson plans, and simulations into the classroom. Sixty-two percent of teachers say they use digital media twice a week or more and 24 percent say they use it every day to help them teach. The numbers of teachers using TV and video content in the classroom is even higher. Over 80 percent of teachers say they use TV or video to teach a lesson at least once a month and 76 percent are streaming it from the web," (para. 2). There is no doubt that the widespread use of technology media in class will attract students and motivate them to learn if they feel study can be more interesting with the presence of digital products. After all, "Integrating technology in education everyday helps students stay engaged. Today's students love technology so they are sure to be interested in learning if they can use the tools they love," (para. 7), Wainwright (n.d.) asserted. 
However, digital technology has some disadvantages as well, which have attracted our teachers' attention. Richtel (2012) argued that a majority of teachers hold the belief that digital technology can impair their study abilities such as attention spans if they indulge in digital technology, and students are more likely to give up once they encounter challenging problems for which they can't find easy solutions on the Internet. But in fact not all students are addicted to Internet and digital products. Take myself for example, when I was first introduced to the smartphone, those convenient functions appealed to me so much that I couldn't help exploring the new functions of my smartphone day and night. But with time going by, I was attuned to the presence of my phone and I wouldn't be distracted by it anymore. What's more, if students can find their own way to utilize digital products for study, they won't be devastated by them. I can now use smartphone to memorize new words in the early morning read e-books before class, and do homework online with my laptop at night. After all of the work, I will reward myself with watching a video online to fresh my mind. I feel I am at a good balance between study and recreation and can use digital products rationally. As a result, my study efficiency gets improved and my life is much more enjoyable than before. 
After all of the discussion above, we can come to the conclusion that digital products affect students' study positively in terms of offering students more accessible resources for study, helping students allocating time flexibly and making class time more interesting. If digital technology is utilized properly, students will benefit from it greatly without being distracted by it. And it can be foreseen that study will become more and more rely on digital technology in the future and students' study efficiency will get improved consistently. 
