Introduction 
In a modern world we are living in right now, we can access music on-to-go and almost at everywhere. Music has existed for so long and it has been giving astounding effects on the listeners, such as making the listeners to feel good and connected to the music. As an illustration for this, many restaurants play some music to create a delightful environment for the customers to enjoy their time there. Thus, music plays an exceptionally important role in almost everyone's life, especially in students' lives. This is due to the fact that most students listen to music while they are studying and acquiring knowledge. For instance, even when I am studying or doing my homework, I prefer to do it while listening to music because it avoids me from feeling sleepy. However, I believe most of the students who have this habit do not know precisely what are the effects of listening to music while learning, including myself. Therefore, it is important to discover how music affects students' learning processes so that students can plan their learning activities better. 
The benefits of listening to music while learning 
Listening to music while learning will make the students perform better cognitively as it is thought that background music facilitates and improves cognitive performance (Angel, Polzella, & Elvers, 2010, p. 1063). Moreover, music helps the students from being distracted by any unwanted noise. Dr. Hollich stated that music makes students focus more while studying as it blocks the unwanted noise from distracting them, thus; this focusing effect will help to improve cognitive performance. However, he mentioned that music might be distracting and might disrupt the students' learning processes if they listen to it while completing a very complicated task. Besides, it is thought that students' performances were disrupted in the presence of loud music at high volumes (Dolegui, 2013, p. 2). Dr. Hollich agreed that if the volume of the music is too high especially if it exceeds 78 decibels, it will become a noise and make the body to get stressed, thus; cognitive performances of the students will be disrupted. 
Cognitive dissonance involves thinking, accruing knowledge, and making choices, which all of these causes stress. When students are studying, they will do a lot of activities that involve thinking in order to accept and understand the new knowledge that they are learning, hence these things contribute to cognitive dissonance which causes stress to the students. It is claimed that pleasant music helped to overcome the effects of cognitive dissonance as it helped the mind kept the opposing cognitions in stressful thinking (Perlovsky, A. Cabanac, Bonniot-Cabanac, & M. Cabanac, 2013, p. 6-8). Furthermore, Dr. Hollich concluded that music helps making the students feel energized. He said that music helps calm students down in stressful situations and adds the element of fun to studying. He gave an example of his son who would feel more willingly to study if there's music playing because music gives the sense of fun to studying, thus; it helps avoiding the sleepiness or boredom to come in. Music acts as a ball of energy and spreads it to the students, helping them feel energized every time they listen to the music. 
Dr. Hollich mentioned that "context effect" which is the environment where the students are studying might influence the memory of the things they are learning. He said, "If you listen to the same music that you studied with while you're being tested on it, there are some evidences that you would actually remember the things you have studied better". Also, he suggested that students can choose to listen to certain songs for each topic that they are learning, and they can listen to the songs before taking up the tests so that they can recall what they have learnt better. However, since it is well known by everyone that students cannot listen to music while taking examinations or tests, Dr. Hollich suggested that students can hum the songs in their head when they are taking the test to recall back what have learnt using this "context effect". It is important for the students to consider other people in the classroom too so that their humming won't disturb other people. Students can try to get the benefits from this "context effect" when doing their homework, too. This "context effect" will make it easier for the students to remember the things they have studied when they are in the same context that they studied in before. Therefore, it is important for students and educators to take advantage of these benefits of listening to music on learning processes. 
Suggestions to take advantage of the benefits music gives 
As listening to music gives numerous beneficial effects to the students while studying, it is important for students to have their awareness about how music can help them. For instance, they should be aware that they shouldn't be listening to music while learning a very complicated material or listening to the music at the volume level that is too high. Besides that, they should know that music can help to remember the learning materials better by using the "context effect", thus; they should try to implement this as a way of helping them to learn, too. Moreover, educators can also play some music in class while students are doing the uncomplicated stuffs as it will avoid the students from feeling sleepy. Educational institutions can make "music rooms" with different genre of music playing in each of them as many students have different taste of music. During the gap time in between classes, students can go to any "music room" that they prefer that day and spend their time to study or do their homework there. 
Conclusion 
	All in all, music helps in improving cognitive performances of the students as it makes students to be able to focus more on their learning activities. Besides, music boosts students' moods and reduces the pressure of studying as it gives the sense of fun to studying. Moreover, music helps to improves students' abilities to remember what they have learnt better. All of these show that music is very helpful and beneficial for the students, hence both the students and the educators should take advantage of the various favorable effects music gives. 
