P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15, 2015 
Can Hydrogen Fuel Replace Fossil Fuel? 
		Alternative energy, the two words that many of us had seen and heard as we approach the second decade of this new millennium. The ever-growing population on this earth means that the usage of available sources of energy mainly fossil fuels has been increasing. However, the reliance on energy from fossil fuels can harm our environment through many side effects by polluting the air that can threaten the health of human, the emission of carbon dioxide that can increase the chances of global warming, and the geopolitical tensions arising from the non- uniform distribution of fossil resources throughout the world (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Therefore, this is where alternative energy comes to mind. One of the promising alternatives is hydrogen fuel. The main reason for us to find an alternative energy is to overcome the problem concerning the usage of fossil fuel. Thus, in order to reduce the air pollution in the world, hydrogen fuel should be used to replace fossil fuels. 
Hydrogen fuel is a fuel made up of pure hydrogen in a liquid form. The fuel can be used in two ways; the first way is to used it similarly as petroleum where it combust to produce energy. The second way is to use it in a fuel cell system where the hydrogen fuel will react with oxygen in an electrolyte to produce electrical energy. Using hydrogen in a fuel cell system is more common as most of the automobile companies are testing the fuel cell engine system in their test cars. Fuel cells have strong benefits over conventional combustion-based technologies currently used in vehicles. If pure hydrogen is used as a fuel, the only by-products are heat and water (Haugen & Cothran, 2006). This would greatly increase the air quality of our atmosphere as it does not releases any harmful greenhouse gases mainly carbon dioxide (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Based on a measured data, 1000 kilowatt-hours of electricity produced in a stationary fuel cell power create no more than an ounce of pollution. In other hand, the equivalent amount of electricity produced by conventional combusting generating technologies will emit 25 pounds of pollutants (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). This will greatly decrease the amount of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere for up to 2 million kg per year, thus provide a clean and healthy environment. In conclusion, hydrogen fuel is environmental friendly that can help reduce air pollution. 
		Not only hydrogen fuel will not have an impact on the air pollution, but the fuel also can produce more energy compared to a common fossil fuel. Hydrogen fuel is a very efficient fuel source compared to the traditional petroleum based source energy. A common fuel cell can produce electricity that would be used for fuel cell cars. It produces electricity that has a potential efficiency of 60% (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). In comparison, the common type of petroleum based fuel that is gasoline that is used in gasoline engines can only operate with about 25% efficiency. It is widely used only to produce motion such as moving some type of transportation vehicle (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Since the energy in a fuel cell is created electrochemically, and do not burn fuel, they are more profoundly more efficient than combustion systems. It has been technically proven that hydrogen is much more efficient as a source of fuel than gasoline as it has a higher energy density per unit mass than gasoline does. This means hydrogen fuel car would need much less fuel to travel greater distances than cars powered by gasoline would be able to. Statistically, according to the analysis of results from the first two years of the U.S. Department of Energy's fuel cell learning demonstration based on a fleet of 77 fuel cell vehicles showed that fuel cell efficiency at one-quarter power as tested on a dynamometer reached 52.2-58.1%, close to the target efficiency of 60% (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Moreover, hydrogen fuel cell vehicles use electric motor in which they use up to 40-60% of the fuel's energy. This would correspond to more than a 50% reduction in fuel consumption as compared to gasoline fuel vehicle. 
		The main problem with using hydrogen fuel is the way of obtaining the fuel itself. Since hydrogen exists as a gaseous state on earth, there must be a way in order for it to be liquefied and be used as a fuel. For hydrogen to be used as a fuel, it needs to be extracted first from the compounds that contain hydrogen so that it can be isolated into the form of independent molecules. The extraction process needs a certain application for a certain level of purity (Sorensen, 2005). Some of the processes extracting hydrogen are reforming the carbohydrates of biomass, and splitting water molecule thermally, electrolytically, or photochemically (Crabtree & Dresselhaus, 2008). Even though by using hydrogen fuel, the by-product of is only water, the carbon footprint that is left from the reaction to produce hydrogen fuel can have the same impact just as much as from the usage of fossil fuels. Thus, it defeats the purpose of using hydrogen as an alternative fuel to reduce the air pollution. Even so, the amounts of research behind producing hydrogen fuel are a lot. There will be a way where hydrogen fuel can be produce without leaving any carbon footprint and the hydrogen fuel ecosystem will be free from giving any pollution. 
		In a nutshell, the exploitation of fossil fuels as an energy source is reaching its limit due to the vast development of transportation. The amount of pollutants in this world can only be increase if nothing is done towards the air pollution caused by the usage of fossil fuel. Therefore, hydrogen fuel has the promising factor to be the alternative towards fossil fuel. This is because of the hydrogen fuel ability only to produce non-toxic by-product when it is used. It also can produce a lot more energy per amount of the fuel compared to the petroleum that is globally used. If hydrogen can replace fossil fuel as the leading fuel, the world would be cleaner and greener. 
