28/11/2015 
The feasibility of electric vehicle's use in China 
An electric vehicle (EV), also referred to as an electric drive vehicle, uses one or more electric motors or traction motors for propulsion. The development of the electric vehicles has started in the 19th century, but the topic about use of electric vehicles just become hot and popular recently because the environment nowadays especially in China begins to be worse and worse and all the people realize that they should come up with some solution to handle it. Facing this topic, some critics support to continue to use motor vehicles and state that it is not necessary for people in China to start to use electric vehicles to enhance the society because of its immature development. However, in my opinion, the use of the electric vehicles in China is exactly expectant and feasible. And the reasons which can totally support my opinion will be separately listed as follows. 
First and foremost, electric vehicles can efficiently save non-renewable energy resource because electric vehicle only use electric as energy to move, which means that this kind of vehicles do not need to use gasoline any more. It is all known that gasoline is refined by petroleum and almost machines nowadays depend on petroleum. With the development of the technology in China, most of Chinese become richer and are able to afford a motor vehicle. In this case, the demand of motor vehicles achieved are being achieved rapidly. Actually, the number of motor vehicles maintains capacity of 1. 92 billion. Obviously, as a country which has the most population in the world, China's cost of petroleum is extremely huge. So, with the occurrence of the electric vehicles, the problem of rare non-renewable energy resource in China can reasonable improved. Assuming that, when almost Chinese try to use electric vehicles, the use of petroleum will be absolutely decreased. The government can save a lot of rare energy resource to develop some other new projects. However, some people states that motor vehicle is still better because the gasoline can make it have more impetus than battery. To this point, there is an explicit statement given by Professor Hua Cai who is an assistant professor in the school of industrial engineering at Purdue University. Professor Cai states that nowadays the companies in China which produce the electric vehicles also notice this problem, so they are also develop some new kind of battery to make sure the motivation of electric vehicles equal that of gasoline vehicles. In this situation, those people's worries will rapidly solved in the future. Therefore, the use of battery vehicles seem to be necessary because of saving the rare non-renewable energy resource. 
Moreover, the use of the electric for vehicles can widely reduce the exhaust of pollution. Each gasoline car produce a lot of emission to which can easily cause air pollution. In today's China, the problem of air pollution is extremely serious, the sky in all the Chinese cities are always grey. In other words, people even cannot see the really blue sky day by day. The research from the Chinese environmental protection administration states the nowadays the pollution from the motor vehicles gradually becomes the most important reason to cause the haze in China. The principal of this research claims that the emission from the motor vehicles seriously influences people's health and environment and the government begins to limit the demand of the gasoline vehicles. In this case, because of using battery, the electric vehicles can easily develop this problem. A paper which named "Research on Development Electric Vehicles in China" points out that the electric vehicles do not discharge any exhaust which is harmful to the environment and people's health. It seems that using electric vehicle to replace the motor vehicle is a benign way to enhance the environment, but some critic points out it is not convenient for all the people to use battery cars because there is a little battery station nowadays. To this problem, if someone carefully do some research on the development of the electric vehicles, he or she will find that more and more local government in China gradually begin to generalize the use of electric vehicle such as using it as taxi and plan to build to more battery station. So, this worry can immediately handle by the promotion of the government. As a result, no emission is also an essential reason for the use of the electric vehicles. 
Finally, although some people may points out that the cost of electric vehicles is a little expensive and they worry that almost Chinese are not willing to pay for it, the electric vehicles can continuously help people save their money because of the cheap cost of the battery. It is known that all the people should use gasoline to refuel their motor vehicles, as I mentioned above, gasoline is becomes less and less recently, which means that the sale of it will gradually increase. In this situation, when a person buy a motor vehicle in a low price compare to the electric vehicle, they will spend lots of money on feeding their motor vehicles. However, to the electric vehicles, it can be easily charged by electric. As a clean energy, electric is exactly easier to get, so the cost of people to charge their vehicles is totally cheaper than that of gasoline vehicles. In other words, people will exactly save their money if they choose to use electric vehicles but not gasoline vehicles in a long period. 
In short, through the above reasons, we can clearly know almost advantages brought form the electric vehicles. The electric vehicles can not only save the rare energy resource but also efficient develop and enhance the China's environment. So, promoting the use of the electric vehicles seems to be feasible and necessary. And all the worries from some people to the battery vehicles can also be solved by different kinds of solutions. At now, not just in China, most of countries have tried to use the electric vehicles. The development in the future of the electric vehicles will be brighter and better with the more experiments. 
