Argumentative Essay (Final Draft) 
March 29, 2015 
831 words 
Hydrogen Power 
Introduction 
In recent times Hydrogen Power has emerged as a strong alternative to fossil fuels and even various other sources of energy like Hydro Power and Nuclear Power. The conventionally used sources of energy need to be replaced with cleaner and more powerful renewable resources on which even our future generations could bet. In the lead to save the environment from global warming and other natural imbalances, we need to delve into the advantages of Hydrogen Power, which make it an ideal resource to sustain our future power economy. In this paper, I would be discussing the importance of Hydrogen power as a energy resource and its potential to become ultimate source of energy. I would first be discussing the environmental impact of hydrogen power, then the cost, abundance, renewability and ease of transportation of hydrogen power. 
Environmental Impact of Hydrogen Power 
In the past few years the pollution caused from emissions of carbon dioxide and other harmful gases from fossil fuels has been raised time and time again. Hydrogen, however, release only water when it is converted to energy, which is unlike the waste and pollution that is produced by traditional fossil fuels. On the other hand natural imbalances caused due to sources of energy like hydro and wind have also become major concerns. Aquatic life has been hardly hit by the construction of dams that are used to generate hydropower. On the other hand Nuclear Power due its various risks has come to become less popular among the energy resources. 
Cost Affectivity of Hydrogen Power 
According to <Name>, a <position> from Purdue University, the infrastructural cost associated with a hydrogen power plant is much less than what is involved in a hydro power dam or a nuclear reactor. He further stated that, hydrogen power plants could last for decades without any issues whereas dams might need regular repair work and maintenance, and might even needed to be rebuilt which would require a huge amount of capital. He also discussed how nuclear waste was difficult to dispose off, once power is generated, and that no such dangerous/radioactive byproduct was associated with hydrogen power. Disposing nuclear waste is a technical task and requires special containers that are both expensive and difficult to dispose. 
The Potential Abundance of Hydrogen Power 
The hydrogen fuel, which is presently derived from natural gas, may seem like an inefficient source of energy to some, but actually the energy released after the combustion of this fuel is far more powerful and environmental friendly than natural gas. The process more than breaks even as the energy generated is efficient enough than what is produced from using natural gas directly. . This also speaks to the renewable nature of Hydrogen power. Specifically, Cortright, Davda and Dumesic, state that Hydrogen power has the potential of being derived from water, which is the most abundantly available resource on earth. Moreover, another academic article by Mazloomi and Gomes, states that hydrogen could be used in junction with presently renewable sources of energy like solar power and wind power. This makes hydrogen a great energy carrier for use in industry and homes. 
Easy Transport and Storage of Hydrogen Fuel 
According to Emre, our expert on hydrogen power, Hydrogen fuel can easily be transported through pipelines without any heavy costs involved in the process. Emre further said that transportation of hydrogen via pipelines is being done in various parts of the United States, and that the same could be done on a bigger scale. Hydrogen is stored in liquid form which makes it really easy to manage as it requires less volume. Therefore smaller fuel tanks of hydrogen power produce the same amount of energy as do the bigger tanks of various other fossil fuels like gasoline. 
Conclusion 
In order to make our world a better place to breathe and live we need serious consideration on using Hydrogen as a power source. Not only can hydrogen be a great source of energy but it could also function extremely well as a energy carrier, thus making our future generations independent. In a fast growing economy, where every nation is seeking to build better infrastructures to accommodate the population growth, our power needs our increasing day by day. To match up with these power needs we need to use Hydrogen fuel to the fullest, and make it the ultimate energy resource. 
