April 27, 2016
Bio-inspired Robotics: A Step Further
Bio-inspired robots is a category of robots that is inspired by biological systems. To study on the bio-inspired robots, a crossing inter-discipline, bio-inspired robotics emerged to figure out ways to emulate features of animals in the last few decades of 20th century (Delcomyn, 2007). The importance of conducting research in this field is that bio-inspiration can be used as a mean to improve the performance of the robots and bio-inspired robotics can be as test-beds to investigate biological questions. Though bio-inspired robots have growing importance, the major obstacles need to be determined to accelerate the development in this field. Based on the prior research about the technical and the financial obstacles of bio-inspired robotics, this essay is going to draw a sound conclusion to compare the role of the financial factors and the technical factor played in the development of bio-inspired robotics, which is one step further than the previous interview report and synthesis paper. Though financial factors play an important role, the technical issues, such as the difficulty in the construction and application overweighs the financial issues, causing it difficult to be commercialized.
First of all, financial issues are not as serious as imagine. Even though, <name> indicated that the lack of funding hinged the development in this field (<name>, personal communication, February 26, 2016), the real situation is that the increases in patents issued, articles published on scholarly journals and the research grants shows a 5 1/2-fold increase in bioinspired activity since 2000 (Fermanian et al, 2013), which is a strong sign indicates that the money invests into academies is far more than enough. It is also anticipated that by 2030, bio-inspiration could account for $425 billion of US gross domestic product (GDP) in terms of 2013 dollars (Fermanian et al, 2013). In conclusion, the financial situation in this field is fine after all, and will have an enormous progress in the future.
In addition, the financial problems are due to the complex technical issues. Technical obstacles cause it difficult to apply the bio-inspired robots to real life, leading to its poor behavior in the market. Inventor cannot find a good company to invest and customers cannot find a good product to buy. One of the reasons is that bio-inspired robots are not as robust as enough. According to a news on BBC (2105), robotic surgery has already linked to 144 deaths in the US. Though, only a minority of the deaths are related directly to technical errors, the possible misuse and the plausible ways to reduce accidents should be taken into consideration to increase the robustness of the medical robots. Consequently, it's hard for customers to trust a bio-inspired robots to do crucial jobs, which limits its use in everyday life. Another reason is the high price of the robots. The most popular commercial humanoid robots, NAO, cost surprisingly $8,000 for each (Sebastien, 2016). The high price increases barrier for people to get in touch with robots, which is also caused by the technical obstacles in manufacturing and design process. As for the hardware, according to the interview with Mr. <name> (2016), the small size of flapping robots causes it challenging to integrate electrical and mechanical components on the flapping robots. As for the software, implementing intelligent control algorithm is also problematic (Lu, 2011). They are also possible reasons for the unacceptable high price of the bio-inspired robots, reducing the possibility of commercial use, also leading to the limited choices of investment.
On the other hand, the argument that financial problems are more urgent is not tenable. In the interview, <name> use the example that a recent spin-off of the robotics lab in Georgia tech put up a project on crowdfunding website to show the need of the investment in this field. In my point of view, this is actually a sign of urgent need of solving technical obstacles in this field. A reasonable funding seeking process is to design a mature product first and then to show the product to possible investors, rather than to reveal a premature product to attract funding from ordinary people. An experienced investor can view the product and the company in a critical perspective, but ordinary people are not as skeptical as him. The fact that this project could not get sufficient investment from investors means that this product was not plausible technically to come onto the market in the experts' view. However, this company bypassed the technical obstacles and try to attract funding using the novel concept product. This is not good for the development of this field in the long run.
To sum up, the obstacles in bio-inspired robotics is mainly caused by technical issues rather than financial issues. Technical difficulties, such as difficulties in design, manufacture and application overweighs the financial issues. Some of the technical difficulties are even the cause of the financial issues. Anyway, the field of bio-inspired robotics is vibrant and continuously improving. If all the difficulties lifted above is solved, if we take one step further in solving these problems, it will not be a dream that bio-inspired robots enter our offices and homes.
Reference
Delcomyn, F. (2007). Biologically inspired robots. INTECH Open Access Publisher.
Deng, X., Schenato, L., & Sastry, S. S. (2006). Flapping flight for biomimetic robotic insects: Part II-flight control design. Robotics, IEEE Transactions on,22(4), 789-803.
Fermanian Business & Economic Institute. (2013). Bioinspiration: An Economic Progress Report (Rep.). San Diego, CA: Point Loma Nazarene University.
Kemp, C. C., Edsinger, A., & Torres-Jara, E. (2007). Challenges for robot manipulation in human environments. IEEE Robotics and Automation Magazine, 14(1), 20.
Lu, P. G. Y. (2011). Mechanical engineering challenges in humanoid robotics (Doctoral dissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology).
Robotic surgery linked to 144 deaths in the US - BBC News. (2015, July 22). Retrieved April 10, 2016, from http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-33609495
Sebastien. (n.d.). Nao Robot Price How much does the Nao robot cost? Retrieved April 10, 2016, from http://www.about-robots.com/nao-robot-price-how-much-does-the-nao-robot-cost.html
2
