Argumentative Essay 
	My topic is about genetically modified(GM) foods. In our daily life, sometimes the food in our meals contain GM crops. When referring to the GM foods, different people have quite different points of view on them. Some people consider GM foods as a good source of food supply while others who oppose the production of GM foods would think they are harmful in a way. In my opinion, the genetically modified foods appearing in current global food market have more benefits than their harm to people. 
	The major reasons why some people stay against GM foods include these following aspects. First, they believe that as most of he genetically modified foods are engineered to be resistant to insects, there will be some toxicants added to them which may be harmful to people. Therefore, they think GM foods has no benefits for people to plant. Secondly, they claim that GM crops will have a risk to the ecological environment that they grow up and may be a threat to the other plants around them. Thirdly, they think GM foods should not be made into products and sold on food market. 
	In terms of the first opposition to the GM foods, I think they are partially right. Admittedly, the toxicants are used in GM foods according to the researches. These kind of chemicals have a chance to cause reaction to some people. However, the amount of the toxicants will not be that large to harm people in a severe way. They are engineered to be better resistant to weed, pest and diseases with those chemicals inside. Therefore, they can be more strong and tenacious to survive in some area that has extreme climate and environment such as drought and cold. [I am going to add more research results and statistics later to support my standpoint] From this we can see, the GM foods are beneficial to people as they can provide foods steadily even in extreme conditions. [I will provide more details and examples] 
	For the claim that GM crops will have a risk to the ecological environment that they grow up and may be a threat to the other plants around them, people who say this believe the GM foods will change the structural formation of the soil as they are like exotic crops. I do not agree with this. Through the researches they show that GM foods have some positive impacts on the environment. [Add research results and examples later] The most convincing example is that in the are of San Joaquin Valley, soil salinity has become a serious problem which means almost no crops can grow up there. Later people found a gene from the grey angrove called "Avicennia marina" and transferred it into a tobacco plant. After that, the plant can grow on the soil in the San Joaquin Valley and let local people plant tobacco and make a good use of their soil. This example show that people can use the method of genetically modification on crops and plants to make them have suitable features under different planting conditions so as to make a full use of the soil with different properties. 
	[This paragraph is going to address the questions on GM foods product appearing on market. The examples will be about the GM foods labeling.] 
	[This paragraph will provide more support to my statement such as the work done by the researchers and scientists to improve current GM foods. It will include the sustainability of the GM foods as well.] 
	[Conclusion Paragraph.] 
Reference 
	[Sources used] 
