	In today's day and age where the natural resources are being depleted at alarming rates, we need to devise newer methods to generate and use power in our daily lives. Cars require fuel such as petrol or diesel to run, and the consumption of these fuels with the current amounts is a big reason to worry. Keeping this in mind, car manufacturers have started taking the battery-powered electric motor seriously. There have been great strides made in the development of the batteries used in electric cars. Electric vehicles with the current technology are more suited for city driving, compared to the gas-powered car. Electric vehicles are amazing but they aren't the best option when it comes to highway driving or long distance driving. Instead, gas powered cars and hybrids are better alternatives for such driving scenarios. My topic of discussion focuses on the development of the electric vehicles (EV) since the early 2000s and how they could be a feasible option to replace the traditional gasoline powered internal combustion engine (ICE) in cities and areas where cars are used in a similar manner. 
	Electric cars have been around for a long time. They came in as early as the early 1900s. Big automotive brands such as Ford and GM were already working on propelling out electric vehicles that could be side runners with their flagship gas cars. Electric vehicles have always attracted the attention of car manufacturers, as well as buyers. These cars have always had this hidden charm that the gas powered cars lack. I believe, this charm comes from the sustainability aspect that walks hand in hand with this type of automotive transportation, one based on electricity. There are no nasty fuel guzzling motors, shelling out puffy smoke and engines that make all kinds of noises. Many buyers even in the early phases of development in this sphere were attracted towards electric cars, and often invested in them. Though one big problem that these cars presented at the time was that they didn't deliver, in terms of the performance of the car. The electric motor at the time wasn't powerful enough, nor did it use the energy in the most efficient way. This led to the decline of the electric vehicle. 
	The electric vehicle resurfaced in the early 2000s. In the current age, there have been tremendous advances that have been made in the technology. The electric car now is made of sophisticated technology and components made of high quality. 
The electric car is powered by a battery, which powers the electric motor and various other components of the car. The battery, which is now being used in majority of the electric vehicles, is the Lithium-ion battery (Li-ion). It is a very powerful battery and it has a life span of 7-8 years if used under specified conditions. 
	The electric vehicle (EV) has zero carbon footprints while the car is use for a period of 7-8 years. That is only because after 7-8 years the battery pack has to be replaced with a new one. The battery pack uses up energy while it is being produced, but that's about it. Once it is up and running in the car, the car causes no environmental pollution, simply because the car runs on electricity. The disposal of these batteries appeared to be a problem, but engineers at Tesla devised methods to recycle these batteries and make new batteries out of the used ones. Also, since the cost of these batteries are very high, and themselves make up for majority of the car's cost, replacing a battery pack causes quite a handsome amount of money. For the same reasons, Tesla along with Panasonic has set up new factories, which are solely directed towards manufacturing batteries in ways that will bring down the cost of these batteries by a big margin. Henceforth, making electric cars affordable for the masses (Wiliams, E.J., personal communication, 2014). 
	Electric vehicles are amazing, and they can very well replace gas powered cars, although not all gas powered cars. Electric vehicles are the best city for driving in the city. Cities usually have a lot of traffic and because of that, one usually drives in the 'stop and go, stop and go' technique. Since EVs run on electric motors, they are perfect to be used in such an environment. Moreover, EVs use regenerative breaking which save power and prolong battery life. The battery life is well suited for distances covered within the city for everyday driving. The EVs aren't suited as much for driving for long distances, that is, driving on the highway for long distances and so on. For such kind of driving, gas powered cars or even hybrids are more suited options. Hybrids too are very promising with further development coming in the technology. Hybrids use an internal combustion engine as well as an electric motor for propulsion. These cars have the best of both worlds and are well suited for city use as well as highway use. Having said that, the hybrids still can't match the promising aspects of the EVs, in context of the environment. 
	The electric vehicle has zero maintenance costs while they are in use. If there's ever a problem regarding the performance of the car, engineers sitting at the company workshops can fix your car by accessing the details by connecting through the Internet with the car. All this can happen overnight without the owner having to bother to take the car to the mechanic and have it fixed. The gas powered cars have very high maintenance, especially when compared to the EVs. Besides that, the fuel cost too has to be included in the expenses, for all the years that one uses the car. 
	I would like to conclude by saying that though the electric vehicles have their own flaws, they are a promising way of transport in the immediate future. They are very well suited for city use and with further advancements in technology they could expand that scope and cover broader areas of use. The electric vehicle has always been a promising aspect and shall continue to be so. The electric vehicles are environmentally friendly, efficient for city use, user friendly, cost efficient and hassle free. The Technology isn't perfect and fit for use everywhere, but it holds great potential to expand and become even better. I'm counting on electric vehicles and so far, they have lived up to a lot of my expectations. 
