The Responsibility of Purdue Dining Court 
	Ha Tran, who is an assistant manager of Hillenbrand Dining Court at Purdue University, told about the problems of the dining courts. She said in the interview, which I conducted with her a month ago, that "it is true that Purdue Dining Courts do not only serve nutrition balanced food. Since we are pursing the variety of food, there are both unhealthy and healthy food in the dining court." Also, she insisted that customers of the dining court are all adults so that the customers should have responsibility to intake nutrient food. Meanwhile, others who are worried about students having obese argue that Purdue Dining Court should serve nutrient food. Personally, Purdue University Dining Court have to serve nutrition balanced food to the students with several reasons such as the obesity rate of university students, unawareness of nutrition from students, and the fact that students get most nutrition information from the school. 
First, nutrition balanced meal is needed for students via the dining courts because of the high obesity rate of university students. A report about the obesity rate in the United States, released by Ogden, Flegal, Carroll, and Kit (the date of release), says that one- third of adults and 17% of adolescents in the United States are obese. By defining a body mass index (BMI), a measure of body fat, based on height and weight, the research shows that the prevalence of obesity has not changed significantly between 2011 and 2012; however, the prevalence of obesity has to be cautious due to the high rate of obesity. More significant and serious results can also be drawn from this report. The report shows 12 -19y, which is an age that most students are, has 20.5% of obesity rate. This rate is higher than average obesity rate of 2-19y. One of the main reason of having obesity and overweight is the habit that we eat. Since we are college students and live on campus, most of us have to use dining courts, which are directly related to the eating habit. Dining courts affect mostly on our health. Therefore, It is necessary for dining courts to serve nutrient food. 
On the other hand, Ha Tran, who is an assistant manager of Hillenbrand Dining Court, also mentioned about the food, which is not nutrient, has been served at the dining courts. She had a same concern as I had. The concern was the students who have freely chosen their food do not have proper nutrition. Tran agreed with this problem but told that Purdue Food Service cannot force student to make a positive decision on food because the students are mostly adults. However, I disagree with her opinion with two reasons. 
First reason is the indifferent of nutrition knowledge from university students. Ali Barzegari, Mosen Ebrahimi, Mohammad Azizi and Kazem Ranjbar researched about how college students intake proper nutrition or have proper knowledge. The researchers made a questionnaire to collect the information. The questions are about five sections such as attitudes towards food nutrition, body composition, the food groups and ingredients and so on. Average correct response rate is about late 50%. The main cause of low nutritional awareness is lack of information. The research says that the many students feel that it is impossible to know the nutrition without any information provided. As the research insists, many students are ignorant to the nutrition of food that they eat. Second reason is that influence from the school that affects students with the nutrition information. Heinz Freisling and Karin Haas also worked on about nutrition and adolescents related mass media and fruit and vegetable. Heinz and Karin realized the nutrition towards adolescents are important especially the consumption of fruit and vegetable. They wanted figure what influenced students about their nutrition that they intake. The study shows that 46% of adolescents are influences by TV programs, 45% percent of adolescents are influenced by their relatives or friends and 34% of adolescents are influenced by their school. This study implies not only that the TV programs influence the nutrition that adolescents take but also schools are also influencing the nutrition of their students. Since the proper eating habit comes from the proper knowledge which is mostly informed at school, Purdue University especially in dining court should inform the proper nutrition because the nutrition information that students have and get is mostly from the school. 
	As the articles above, the unawareness of the importance of nutrition from the university students leads to the obese and overweight. This is the reason why Purdue University Dining Court should serve nutrient food. Moreover, they need to inform the nutrition of food to student because the school is the one of the biggest way to get information about the nutrition effect. 
