Traditional Martial Arts and Modern Sports 
Traditional Martial Arts and Modern Sports 
What is the origin of many of the competitive sports nowadays? This question has haunted in my mind for several years. I have been practiced kendo and archery for years. I know that these two kind of sports can not come into existence for no reason. What we can see from them every day are only superficial rules of competition. From doing research on the deeper part of history, equipments development, techniques development, and cultural influences, I found out that there is a strong relationship between these two kinds of competitive sports and their former forms- kenjutsu( traditional Japanese sword art) and traditional archery. Differences are also inevitable in many parts such as basic techniques, equipments and philosophies. This conclusion can definitely contribute to the protection of not only kenjutsu and traditional archery but also many other kinds of traditional martial arts which are unique parts of traditional cultures. What's more, it can also promote the perfection of the training system and rules of some specific sports. 
Modern kendo is the continuation of ancient kenjutsu and the reflection of some special history periods. From the interview of Imafuji Sensei, I got to know that both Meiji Reform and the prohibition of martial arts have great impacts to the development of kendo, which directly caused the differences in hitting techniques and foot works between modern kendo and kenjutsu. In modern kendo, people use gentle but quick hits to get points efficiently. But in kenjutsu, which is a practical combat martial art, those weak hits are not proper because they can not cause major wounds to kill the enemies. The difference of footwork is caused by different equipments. Kendo shinai( training bamboo sword) is longer than the bokken( wooden sword) and katana( metal sword) used in kenjutsu, which makes it harder to hold and keep balance while moving in big motions. So, the footwork in modern kendo is mainly small but dense steps. On the contrary, the footwork in kenjutsu is much bigger and the body center of gravity rise and fall frequently. From the photo below, we can see that the kendo before the Second World War is a combination of kenjutsu and modern kendo. But it is interesting to see that modern kendo still keeps ten sets of kata( kendo form) practice. Although this number in kenjutsu is usually fifty or even more, we can still find out that modern kendo inherits this important tradition from its ancestor. Kata is not the only thing which modern kendo and kenjutsu has in common. The inner philosophy still remains the same. Both of them have a requirement of respect, courage and steadiness, which are also part of the samurai culture. 
Figure 1: Kendo before the Second World War 
is a combination of kenjutsu and modern kendo 
In archery, the relationship becomes more complex, because this is a world wide sport which has existed for thousands of years. In the article"The Asian war bow", Nieminen(2010) holds the point that"The Turko-Mongol composite recurve bow"(p.1) made a great contribution to the development of modern laminated material used in modern bows. In ancient Asia, people used organic glues to glue horn, tendon and wood/bamboo together in order to make the bow limbs. Although this kind of bow can be easily effected by bad weather, this design still spread quickly in most of the Asia countries and promoted the development of modern glass fiber reinforced epoxy resin and wood laminated bow limbs in 20th century. In the article "The First York" Jan(2014) argues that modern archery competition is developed from " a sport for English gentlemen"(p.1) in the second half of the 18th century. From this photo, we can see that the archers in the beginning of 20th century are still using traditional English long bows to shoot in tournaments. Now, we attach different accessories like stabilizer and arrow rest to the modern target bows to increase the accuracy. But the step by step development of equipments also followed the history trend. In shooting technique aspect, although traditional Asian use thumb to pull the string, which is quite different from the Mediterranean style( three fingers style) and release aid used in modern archery competitions, the key points of back muscle control and body balance are still the same. 
Figure 2: An archer shooting in a archery tournament in 1908 Figure 3: Traditional Chinese shooting style in 
Ying Gao's book Martial arts: The proper use of a bow 
From what I just discussed above, we can easily see the close relationship between modern competitive kendo and ancient kenjutsu, traditional archery and modern competitive archery. Although a lot of differences have already emerged because of the specific history and technology gap, the similarities cannot be overlooked. After that, we can draw the conclusion that to whom want to get access to those traditional martial arts, participating in the related sports which have more systematic training techniques can be a good start. To whom want to be successful in particular sports, they can trace back to the history and find out more details about what their ancestors have done to reach the goal. I believe both of these two kinds of people can benefit from this research. 
Key words: kendo, kenjutsu, traditional bow, traditional archery, traditional martial arts 
