Can dynamic earphones be replaced by balanced armature earphones---- balanced earphones and dynamic earphones in new technology 
Nowadays, our earphones approach a very high level due to the application of technology. Some may say not only balanced armature earphones, but also dynamic earphones get development from new technology, so it is no reason for dynamic earphones being replaced by balanced armature earphones. But in my opinion, the earphones which benefit more from new technology will survive in the free market. Hence, in this paper. I want to compare which kind of earphones benefit more from new technology like custom-fit cover, multiple sound transducers, etc. After my research, I find balanced armature earphones can get more benefits from these new technology, so I can get the conclusion that balanced armature earphones will replace dynamic earphones in near future. 
Do you know what the people values the most? Undoubtedly, it is health. According to the paper which I used in my synthesis paper, the sound from the earphones can easily to hurt human [zs1]being's eardrums, nerves, even brains. However, in some specific environment which is full of noises, people have to increase the volume of their earphones, if they really want to appreciate the music in their portable music players. Some companies choose the Noise Cancelling technology. The earphones which apply this technology, can collect the noises in the environment, and produce opposing waves to cancel these noises. In fact, these opposing waves will affect the quality of music obviously. For an example, there is a section of wave which is similar to the wave of the music. The Noise cancelling earphone will recognize this section of wave from the music as noise, so it will cancel it and you will not hear this part of music. That's why none of high fidelity earphones will apply this technology. Instead, these high fidelity earphones apply custom-fit cover to realize noise isolation. Every custom-fit cover of earphones is customized according to the shape ear canal and ear drum, and made of flexible material. It avoids the intervals from earphones to ear canals. As the result, only music, but not noise from earphones which apply custom-fit cover can deliver to eardrums. So this technology can help people to keep their ears healthy when they want to listen to music in a noisy environment. 
Noise Cancelling earphones custom-fit cover 
We have already known how important the custom-fit cover is for earphone. The other technology I want to talk is multiple sound transducers. The earphones which have more than one sound transducers are called multi-driver earphones. Each sound transducer just works in their specific frequency range. The music from the music players (e.g., mp3 plyers) transmit the digital signal to the frequency dividers. On the other hand, I conclude that multi-driver earphones have a wider frequency range. In my mind, the frequency dividers deliver a different digital signal to each sound transducer of earphones. So, at the same time individuals' eardrums can receive different sounds from different sound transducers at the same time, and these sounds are mixed together by our brains. At beginning of the this century, when Etymotic Research (a famous earphone company) applied balance armature technology on earphones, a lot of people laughed at them, because at that time, the frequency range of one single balanced armature was really poor. However, by the intelligence of engineers, some balanced armature sound transducers which are responsible for different frequency are combined together. Definitely, this technology improve balanced armature earphones a lot. In the other hand, this technology has also been used on its competitors--- dynamic earphones in these years. In the end, which earphones with these technologies have better performances? 
The first balanced armature earphone jh13(8 sounds transdusers) 
from Etymotic Research 
In my analysis, the custom-fit cover is a notable progress for dynamic earphones and balanced armature earphones. Unfortunately, both earphones can get the same benefit from this technology, so it is not helpful to compare which earphones will be replaced. However, I don't think these two earphones will get the same benefit from the multi-drive technology. Owning the reason that the balanced armature sound transducers are smaller than dynamic sound transducers, the balanced armature earphones can hold more sound transducers, like UM3 from Westone have three transducers and Jh13 even have eight transducers! Furthermore, the frequency range is link to the size of transducers for dynamic. It is better for the bigger dynamic transducers to be responsible for the low frequency part and it's better for the smaller dynamic transducers to be responsible for the high frequency part. Since, there have to be a big size dynamic transducers to be responsible for the low frequency part, the quantity of transducers of dynamic earphones cannot be more than 2. In this contrast, multi- driver technology benefit balanced armature earphones far more than dynamic earphones. 
As a result, I believe that the earphones' development cannot leave new technology. Which earphones can get more benefit from new technology will be chosen by consumers. Hence, I analysis balanced armature earphones will replace dynamic earphones in near future. 
Reference List 
1. Harvey, J., & Dyer, M. (2011, January 25). Active crossover for use with multi-driver headphones. Retrieved April 27, 2007. 
