4/10/16 
Engl106i 
P5d1 
Issues about LGBT teens 
Homosexual people has been receiving public discriminations for so many years and there have been many issues going on with young LGBT people such as homeless, violence and psychological problems. Most people are not familiar with LGBT people, normally have bias on them and be afraid of this community. 
Parents always tell their kids to stay away from the people they know who are homosexual because they think homosexual teens might hurt their kids and have but effect on their kids. In my opinion, we could call it discrimination, in a world that dominated by heterosexuality, people could not deny the existence of other kinds of sexual orientation. LGBT people are just humans and they also prove the diversity of the nature. It is not a kind of mental or physical problem and they should not be regarded as weird people. Kids keep receiving wrong ideas from their parents, society, religions from a generation to next generation and then LGBT people are suffering from social judgment every single day. They are people, so they deserve their rights of equality, they should stand up and make their own voice. To eliminate discriminations, social organization should provide information about LGBT people to the public and let them know that LGBT people also need care and protection, they are not monsters or sick person, they born with their sexual orientation just as any people born with a fixed gender that no one could make their own decision on it. I hope that there would be one day, any symbols of LGBT people would gone, and they would be treated just like any normal people in the society. 
Many parents could not acknowledge that their kids are LGBTs, once they found out that their kids are dating people who have same gender, parents become anxious. LGBT teens are afraid to tell their parents their true sexual orientation because thet think who they are might hurt their parents feeling, they might be kicked out from home, treated differently by family members. In my point of view, parents are shelters of their kids, and kids should be loved, be trusted, be equalized no matter who kids are and who kids love. The relationship between LGBT people are same as every heterosexual couple. Some people think that people who be labeled by LGBT means they are doing something ugly such as sleeping around and might transmit disease. Do some of the heterosexual person have more than one sexual partner in their daily life? The answer is obviously yes. However, in a homosexual relationship, people also want to be loyal with their love one just as any other people in the world. 
In conclusion, people's discriminations toward homosexual people come from their lack of knowledge about this kind of people and make the harsh judgment depending on their own imaginations. LGBT people are under unimaginable social pressure. We should care about them, and learn more about them. 
