A Tale of two Eras 
There is more to Indian Cinema than just the ongoing success of the contemporary Bollywood. Its roots are embedded to way long back that now it is called the old school Bollywood. Even though the present Hindi film industry has evolved in many ways, it has taken a lot of tip-offs from the old Hindi industry. In times of Raj Kapoor around the 90s, Indian Hindi cinema had quite a bit of its international following. However, the existing Hindi film industry has not only survived since then but has, in fact thrived over the last century portraying the remarkable presence it made both domestically and globally. Hindi cinema became global making complex changes in all the aspects of cinema- aesthetics, production, plot and consumption of Hindi films. Coming from a three-generation film fraternity, I would like to explore the changes Bollywood adapted to since the old school Bollywood's transformation. Primarily, contemporary Hindi film industry is more sought-after and lucrative than the traditional Bollywood industry. 
Firstly, old school Bollywood's movies were made in black and white and the movie posters where painted with free hand. While currently, new Hindi movies are made in color incorporating the advanced technology and the movie postures are digital motion pictures that are designed with high-ending equipment. Formerly, Hindi movies where not made with heavy budgets and hence most song locations would be shot in a closed studio with certain scenic wallpapers. Nonetheless, present movies are shot in panoramic locations in abroad and most movies are made with high budgets. For instance, the movie Bahubali was made in many languages on a budget of eighteen million and said to have grossed over eighty-eight million dollars worldwide. It became the highest grossing film within India and the third highest Indian film worldwide. 
Secondly, I would like to focus on the specific theme that Bollywood has maintained from the very beginning of its evolution and has not changed ever since. The idea of Hindi films being song-dance duets and family drama musicals has not modified at all. Previously as well, the main target of Hindi films was to connect the plot of the movies with the audiences and hence most of the movies were based on usual family dramas. Presently, there are many new movies that came up with good scripts that focus on global and national issues. For instance, the movie Kanchi focuses on sex trafficking in Bombay, and Masaan, centers on the rigid Indian caste system. Even though the above-mentioned movie is different from a usual Hindi film, the central theme of Masaan hits the emotions of audience where they can connect with the female protagonist facing problems. Therefore, the proliferation of Bollywood has not affected the targets and themes of a standard Hindi film. 
Thirdly, contemporary Bollywood is more popular and is notably notorious than the traditional Bollywood. Although Bollywood's seeds lie within the old school industry, the current industry is more cinematically equivalent to the spices used in Indian cooking Bowes, 2013. Each film that is now made is unique in its own genre; let's say a romance, comedy, action and a melodrama plot, all of them invariably heighten every aspect that are in a film. For instance, the sentimental between the mother and the hero in the movie Kapoor&Sons does not only elevate hero's performance but it is the supporting character of mother's action that complimented the scene. Moreover, in the movie Bahubali, the villain's character was given the same weightage as the hero's. This kind of upraising of every character was not common in the olden times where only the hero was given more weightage in films. Nowadays people appreciate the newer technology that each cinema adapts striking a balance between the narrative and the graphics that it uses. In addition people are going to multiplexes and theatres to watch movies whereas in olden times people there hardly used to be a theatre in every city. 
Consequently, Mishra portrays that the making of films have changed from the very beginning where films are being more than just mere entertainment to people and each film replaces the older vocabulary of cinema Mishra, 2009. Current films over an aesthetic experience of a high order where cinema tends to be more like a book or a daily newspaper where people are connected to their favorite films. However, there are very few films being made that are based on issues such as unemployment, corruption and criminalization of politics. In an interview conducted by Rao, people felt the need for Bollywood to expand its territory than just making dramatic films even though most of them enjoy watching them. The current mindsets of individuals have changed from watching films for mere pleasure and they prefer to see Bollywood doing something more than the commercial factor Rao, 2007. 
Lastly, in conclusion, even though Hindi film industry has unfolded a progressive change since the past decade, it is now foremost for Bollywood to keep striving for greater lengths in making more issue oriented films with the new sort of technical finesse. Nevertheless, Bollywood constructed a league of its own, despite the modifications it had to go through from the old school film industry. A recent comparative study of current and past Bollywood has suggested many changes that Bollywood had undergone Baraiya, 2015. As such as, initially, same and repeated stories were shown with dancing styles being fixed and particular. While, now the narrative technique is complex and many stories are experimented with many actors having different action and dance styles. This kind of change in the presentation of a Hindi film has affected the audience as well as the industry in good light. Regardless, though the drama factor has been constant, each and every character in current Hindi films is portrayed with heroic importance. All in all, the globalization of Hindi cinema is on the rise with unimaginable and exclusive movies on the tray. 
