When Should the Parents Let the Teenagers to Make Their Own Decisions? 
	It is always difficult for parents when the time comes to decide the proper time to let the teenagers to make their own decisions. Most of the time, conflicts happen between the parents and the teenagers when they are deciding the proper time. The parents think that their teenagers are too young to be independent while the teenagers think they are old enough to make major decisions. I believe even though the teenagers might make some mistakes in making decisions, the parents should let their teenagers to make their own decisions as they enter middle school with proper guidance along with them. 
The main reason why the parents are hesitating to have their children to take the responsibility for their decision-making because they are worried. Main reasons that the parents are delaying the proper time to let their teens to make their own decision is that they are still too young and reckless. They are saying that the teenagers are not yet mature enough, which might cause serious consequences. 
Despite the parents' worries however, the teenagers should be given the chance to make their own decision as soon as possible because the more the parents delay to let them to make their own decisions, the worse the parent-teen relationship will get. Although the parent-teen relationship slightly changes as the kids enter the adolescence, the parents are still the most influential factor in their lives. Therefore, they want to prove that they are not just kids anymore; they want to earn the trust from their parents. However, when the teenagers get denied for their decisions from their parents, they take this as their "parent(s) do not trust him or her to make his or her own decisions" (Apter,2009). When they get denied from their parents, the quarrel between them and their parents gets worse because the denial implies that the parents, who should always be supporting and giving trust, didn't give the trust they want. This trust relates to the teenagers' self-esteem as well. According to the interview with <Name>, a teenager who has a positive relationship with his or her parents displays higher confidence in decision-making than others who do not have positive relationship. This positive relationship between the parents and the teenagers is called "secure attachment". However, when this secure attachment is not set up in parent-teen relationship, the teenagers display low self-esteem which further relates to the problems establishing autonomy and closeness in relationships with others (Nauert, n.d.). Therefore, the parents should be aware of the slight change in their relationship with their children and try to give the trust the teenagers want. 
Peer pressure plays another part in the teenagers' desire for decision-making besides earning trust from their parents. Children encounter so many people from different backgrounds with different values as they enter middle school. They experience this during elementary school as well, but at that time they do not have their values set up yet and this unorganized values make them confused as they face others with totally different thoughts. As their friendship is getting deeper and more complex, it affects them in many aspects, including making decisions. In the article by Maria Guzman, she says "Although the negative peer influence is over emphasized, more can be done to help teenagers experience the family and the peer group as mutually constructive environments". She also mentioned that "peer friendships can be a safe place for youth to explore their identity, learn about social norms, and practice their autonomy" (2007). Peer pressure might display negative aspects to the parents in the first place. However, when the parents consider the positive effect of it, it might reduce their worries that this peer pressure might lead their teenagers in a wrong way. 
	Although we cannot determine the exact period, now we have a slight idea when to let teenagers to make their own decisions. Many different factors, such as earning trust and peer pressure, play different roles in teenagers' desire for decision-making. The parents should let their teenagers to take responsibility of their own decisions when the kids enter middle school. However, since their decision-making ability is not completely set up yet, parents should provide guidance until the teenagers feel comfortable with making decisions so that they can move on to major decision-making. 
