F5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 8, 2015 
Lying Through Omission 
In our everyday life, various social media disseminate information to us, like newspaper, broadcasting and so forth, and we are surrounded by different kinds of news. Due to the authority of journalism, we tend to believe what journalists tell us, and journalism has a great effect on public opinion. However, sometimes, journalists lie by omission on purpose when they report news, which usually leads to serious damage to our society. According to my interview with <name>, as the public, we should be "informed consumers" when we spread the information (personal communication, March 31, 2015). We ought to go out and check out the information we receive from all kinds of channels. We cannot blindly rely on only one resource, like an article in a newspaper or a blog on the Internet. Why should we be careful about propagating news? Via my research through the whole semester, I find my answers for this question. 
First, lying by omission causes irreparable damage. According to Deni Elliott and Charles Culver (1992), journalistic deception "is sometimes just as morally problematic for journalists to withhold true information as it is to give false information" (p83). This kind of behavior has an important influence on public awareness. Furthermore, it is even able to ruin people's life. Take myself as an example. As I mentioned in my Formal Proposal, a few months ago, I saw a piece of news on the official news website that showed some doctors were taking selfies when performing an operation. In the photos, they were holding scalpels and wearing surgical masks, and the patient was lying on the operating table unconsciously. From spectators' perspective, I became very outraged with these doctors as other readers did since I thought they did not take patient's life into account and they were unprofessional. I forgot to track the source of the news and just believed it. I reposted the news and let more people know about this case. After a few days, the net citizens became more and more violent. The angry net citizens dug out the personal information of these doctors by human flesh search, and the doctors' life had been extremely influenced. A lot of outraged people went to their hospital and their house and censured those doctors. One of the vice-president of this hospital was even dismissed due to this case. Nevertheless, it turned out that the reason why those doctors took pictures during an operation was that they finally saved the leg of this patient after performing an operation for more than 7 hours without food and drinks. They thought it was a miracle. In addition, they got the permission from the patient's family before they took selfies. However, what the net citizens did did ruined their life. It was not only the net citizens but also journalists who pushed this incident, which had an extremely negative effect on those parties' life. 
Furthermore, somebody would say it was the fault of the press, not the fault of net citizens because they just believed that the press is the most authoritative organization to disseminate information. However, as the public, we need to check the reality of the news before we spread it. Although in Ettema and Glasser's study (1998), some journalists claim that what they do is just objectively gathering information instead of moral judgement, persisting in objectivity is an idealized and visionary behavior. Therefore, we cannot count on the journalists to check the objectivity of their own reports, and as the instance I mentioned before, net citizens should take most of the responsibility of the influence of those doctors. We spread news as reporters in our daily life through Twitter, Facebook and some other media on the Internet, so we have the responsibility to conform the authenticity of the information. Nevertheless, it does not mean that it is acceptable that journalists lie through omission when they report news. Even though the press is so powerful that it can lead the public opinion, it is our duty to decide which news we should believe and disseminate. 
My study on lying through omission in journalism shows that the public ought to cheat the information which the press spread with caution. If the net citizens do not tend to be "informed consumers", it will lead to really negative influence on the society and people's life. Moreover, like the real journalists, we should also be responsible for the authenticity of the information we disseminate. That is the conclusion I get from the research I have this semester. 
Reference 
Elliot, Deni and Culver, Charles (1992) Defining and analyzing journalistic deception. Journal of Mass Media Ethics 7(2), pp. 69-84. 
Ettema, J. S. , & Glasser, T. L. (1998), Custodians of conscience: Investigative journalism and pubic virtue. New York: Columbia University Press. 
