P5D1 Argumentative essay 
April 16th, 2015 
Should Everyone Develop His or Her Leadership Skills? 
In recent years, universities are paying growing attentions on students' leadership experiences. Statistics shows that students who have more leadership experiences have more advantages in admission processes. Though plenty of students have a opposite point of view: "Some students like in engineering major should not focus on developing leadership skills but professional experiences, otherwise they can hardly find a job in a terrible employment status," I believe that leadership experiences are far more important than professional knowledge. 
"Surely not every are potentially a leader," Professor <name> said in his open course, "but it not means that you are not required to develop leadership skills because before being a leader of a team, you need to be the leader of your life." Although engineering major students are not required to do management jobs after their graduation, they do need to manage their time and their life. As we all know, a good leader usually has a lot of qualities like honesty, excellent communication skills, sense of humor, confidence, creativity and so on. These qualities are also the key factors to success for engineering students. For example, Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder of Facebook, was a computer science student in Harvard University. However it's rarely acknowledged that he is also a psychology major student that he has learned large amount of knowledge about humanity such that he is versatile person instead of a programming nerd. Without inspiration, creativity and communications skills, it's impossible for Mark Zuckerberg to build Facebook and being one of the richest people in the world. 
Despite the factor that engineering student need leadership experience to refine their life, they may convert their jobs to managements positions for some reason. It's pretty fair that an outstanding engineer is promoted to a manager position and takes in charge of a whole team. In this kind of situations, a manager lack of leadership skills would lead the whole team to failure. Leadership is the way you lead the team to success. "Radically different styles --- think Steve Jobs, Bill Campbell, and Andy Grove -- can all lead to great outcomes, " Ben Horowitz wrote in his book The Hard Thing about Hard Things, "Perhaps the most important attribute required to be a successful CEO is leadership." Leadership in this kind of view is an approach to success more than a quality. Just as the three world-famous CEOs mentioned in Ben's book, all of them are first engineers, and then CEOs that their successes are all based on both professional skills and leadership skills. 
However there do have some opposite examples to support the leadership unnecessary theory. For instance, Stephen William Hawking, well-known scientist who suffered ALS for a long period that he even cannot talk and move. His extraordinary professional knowledge leads him to success without leadership stuffs. Usually these situations always happened on some outstanding scientists that they seldom contact and interact with other people and the only job they do is researching and developing. For these people, spending time on developing so-called leadership skills is a waste of time and extremely meaningless that they would rather spend time on professional skills to finding breakthrough in their research. 
As examples mentioned above, both professional skills and leadership can bring you success. Nevertheless, leadership seems significant general situations and only regarded unnecessary in some extreme cases. Generally speaking, being a technology nerd and lacking of leadership skills usually result in a trouble. Leadership is not only the ability to lead a team to success, but also a kind of quality to build a rich and colorful life. 
