Working with Academic advisers 
	Recently, as the economics of china developed greatly, more and more parents decide to send their children studying abroad. However, when these children who study in the America begin their life in the university, they meet a lot problems. One of the most common problems is that they can't work well with their academic advisers who play an important role in the American university. Finally, the problems lead to many other troubles and a bad consequence. Some of the people, including me, think these problems are caused by the different education cultural between the America and China. The hardness to change the habits that created in the china and the wrong understanding of Academic advisers' advantage are also contribute to the problems a lot. 
	First of all, there is no way around the fact that the origin of all the problems is come from the different education cultural between China and America. Some people who never seen or experience the two education system don't understand the difference between these two place. They may say that the purpose of the system is educational, so the difference is not very big. However, every people who have learned or directly participate in these systems will say that those are totally two worlds. Therese 2003, who tough in the china for several years, wrote in his journal that the education system in the China is very strict and the communication between students and teachers is missing. Teachers tells every things in their classes and every questions have standard answers. So, students seldom ask their teachers questions and always solves question by themselves. Grades are an important facts that decide students' performance in the school. Students have to study hard in order to get the good grades to make their parents pleasant. This also reduce the time and chance that students can communicate with their teachers. Living in this environment for almost twelve years, Chinese students all hold habits that never talk with teacher and solves questions by themselves. On the other hand, American teachers encourage students communicate with them. This is a feature for America education system. So, academic advisers, as a part of the system, obviously have this feature too. Finally, when advisers require students to communicate with them actively, Chinese students are more used to solve questions by themselves. The consequence is students can't work well with their advisers. 
	Some people may say students can change their habits in order to live better in the university. However, changing habits is not as easily as people think. A habits always needs a long time to build up and also need several months or years to change. This is acknowledged by many science. Wendy, Leona, & Melissa Guerrero. 2005 describe in their research paper that the habits have great power. People will only change habits immediately when the environment totally can't allow them to do the same thing. Chinese students live in the environment for almost twelve years. The habits, such as solving problems on their own or fearing teachers, have become a part of students' live. They must spend many time to change it. Especially, the university don't have any requirement about students have to see their advisers. So it is hard for students to change their habits and let them try to find academic advisers to solve their questions. During the time that students try to change their habits, it is still not easily for them to work will with their advisers. So, the hardness to change habits is a big fact that influence the disconnection. 
	On the other hand, the misunderstanding about the work of advisers also influence the communication between Chinese students and advisers. For any Chinese students, especially who can't work will with advisers, they think advisers are useless for them. For example, one of my friends describe that the only thing that adviser can do is just giving him the PIN number to choose classes. But, in another interview with my adviser, <name> say that academic advisers and help students a lot. They can provide many information or direction for students to solves the problems. They can also provide many helps about the students' academic career and their lives in the university. Many students don't know the advantage of academic advisers, so they think advisers as useless to them. Finally, since they think advisers have no help for them, they won't try to find advisers help them. So, I think the misunderstanding about academic advisers also lead to the disconnection between students and advisers. <name>, personal communication, October 30, 2015 
	To conclusion, the origin of the problems is the cultural difference between China and America. These difference let Chinese students build up some habits that don't fit with the America education environment. The hardness of changing habits also let it more hard for students to use to communicate with advisers. The wrong idea about the function or advantage also influence the work between Chinese students and advisers. 
Cited page 
Therese. 2003. An Innocent Abroad: 
Teaching American Society and Culture in China. Interdisciplinary Humanities, 202, 95-102. http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=12750995&site=ehost-live 
Wood, W., Tam, L., & Witt, M. G. 2005. 
Changing Circumstances, Disrupting Habits. Journal Of Personality And Social Psychology, 886, 918-933. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.88.6. 918 http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=pdh&AN=2005-06516-003&site=ehost-live 
