The Indispensability of Face-to-face Meeting Between Headquarters and Subsidiaries 
Lots of companies use meetings to communicate between the headquarters and subsidiaries. Meeting is a way that managers use to listen to subordinates' reports and deliver mission to subordinates in person. Traditional face-to-face meeting and virtual meeting are the two main meeting ways corporations use. Virtual meeting is a way that managers can have meeting between headquarters and branch companies by the online program. The other meeting, face-to-face meeting, is a way that managers meet in person in a specific location. In my opinion, traditional face-to-face meeting plays a very important role in the connection between headquarters and subsidiary companies and cannot be replaced by online meeting. 
Face-to-face meeting plays an important role to cultivating the tacit cooperation between headquarters and subsidiary companies since meeting subordinates in person increases managers' in headquarters control scale of performance in subsidiaries. According to Loppacher, Cagliano and Spina (2010), many companies send trustworthy auditors or executives from headquarters to subsidiaries to check financial performance and conduct conference to listen to the reports. Auditors and Executives meet employees in person in subsidiaries, which can help managers from headquarters gather the most reliable information of branch companies in order to increase managers' control scale of subsidiaries. If auditors or executives find any problems happened in some departments during the meeting, they can talk to the director of the department and check some related documents immediately. So executives can analyze information by combining the information gained from the director and these documents. The face-to-face contact between executives and subordinates in branch companies can enhance the familiarity between executives and subordinates. Once executives and subordinates become more familiar with each other's working styles because of the face-to-face meeting, they can finish mission more rapidly and excellently. Because managers in headquarters can get acquainted with employees in subsidiaries due to the contact in person, they have more tacit cooperation. And the tacit cooperation can assist company to gain a better consequence of missions. 
Meeting employees in person can improve workers' loyalty to companies. My interviewee <name> , an MBA student with working experience, said that executives could encourage employees by visiting branch companies. The encouragement from executives can motivate employees to put more passion into work. The more energy and endeavor that employees put into the company, the more loyalty they have to the company. Subordinates can more opportunities to get in touch with executives in headquarters by the face-to-face meeting, so they can feel the charm of leaders and become more loyal. The face-to-face contact can bring better effect to gain employees' loyalty than online meeting. The benefits of face-to-face meeting can be proved by some politician's speech activities. Most politicians go to different places to hold speeches or meetings with people during the elections period. Because politicians know the importance of face-to-face meeting and positive consequences traditional face-to-face meeting can bring to their election. Politicians would like to meet people in person to gain more support by people because they know the advantages of face-to-face meeting. The face-to-face meeting can also bring the same good effect because of the personal charm of executives from headquarters. 
Some people think online meeting can replace traditional face-to-face meeting, however, I disagree with this statement. Firstly reason is that the both the article written by Loppacher, Cagliano and Spina (2010) and the chapter of Sigu's book (2007) only refer that sending executives to branch companies is the most effective way to gain the reliable financial performance of subsidiaries. In addition, these two articles mention the importance of the face-to-face meeting. Secondly, online meeting is not safe enough for managers to deliver some classified information since hackers can attack the online program that serves the virtual meeting. If hackers give the classified information to the company's competitors, the company may encounter severe problems. So the safest way to exchange information between headquarters and subsidiaries is to use traditional face-to-face meeting. Lastly, some problems occurred in subsidiaries are caused by the culture diversity. Online meeting cannot easily solve this kind of problem since it requires managers to go to the subsidiary company and know more about the culture so that managers can come up with some useful solutions. 
In conclusion, face-to-face meeting is irreplaceable for managers to communicate and gain information from subordinates in branch companies. Although the face-to-face meeting is vital for connection between headquarters and subsidiaries, the online meeting is also a good way for managers to communicate with subordinates. So I suggest companies can use traditional face-to-face meeting to communicate within companies. Meanwhile, they can use online meeting to deliver some unimportant information. In this way, traditional face-to-face meeting is the most important communication way and online meeting is the ancillary way. 
