Meats and Fruits Impact Teenagers physical health 
Puberty is the most significant period of time in people's life, because teenager's physical and mental development occurs in adolescence. Teenagers not only become taller and heavier visibly in adolescence, but also their organs become stronger to support the body structure and transfer nutrition in body. Definitely, teenagers need a lot of nutrition for physical growth, but what kind of food can provide large amount of protein and mineral for physical growth? Nutrition in fruits are effective sources to prevent or cure some diseases. 
There are various fruits in our daily life, but not all fruits prevent or cure all diseases. Basically, the specific fruits would prevent, remit even cure specific disease. Peach and banana can prevent teenagers to become anemic. People are called anemic, because they get anemia caused by iron deficiency. Anemia is the most prevalent disease among teenagers, and insufficient hemoglobin are produced by cell causing teenagers to feel tired, dizzy and cold. Carol N. Meredith and Johanna T. Dwyer showed that 4.1% boys and 2.8% girls are anemic between eleven ages and fourteen ages, and 7.2% older adolescent girls get anemia. It is hard to say that the relatively a high proportion of teenagers become anemic due to intaking few fruits. However, the iron-rich fruits such as peach and banana actually can cure or prevent anemia, because theses fruits contain much iron which absorbed by teenagers making cell to generate more hemoglobin. 
Peaches and banana, these two specific fruits are used to prevent or cure anemia, because these two fruits contain abundant iron and anemic need iron to produce hemoglobin becoming health. Another disease is prevalent among people, although not prevalent among teenagers, young people can eat specific fruits to prevent getting this disease when they are older. Researchers found that eating fruits prevent getting heart disease by analysing data. 
Oranges and lemons can lower the risk of heart disease and stroke. Harvard-based Nurses' Health Study and Health Professional Follow-up Study collected data about health and dietary habits from 110,000 men and women for 14 years showing that people have lower chance to get cardiovascular disease if they intake plenty fruits and vegetables. Furthermore, Harvard guys show more specific data to explain their research. People who ate 8 or more fruits everyday were 30 percent less to get heart attack or stroke than people who only ate 1. 5 fruits. Inappropriate eating habits last for a long time would trigger cardiovascular disease, because these disease all are not acute. So, fruits have no function to cure some disease only by eating plenty fruits for several days.people should have a good eating habits intaking sufficient fruits to prevent cardiovascular disease since they are teenagers. 
Normally, teenagers have no idea about how fruits bring benefit to their physical growth and they do not trust that eating fruits can really cure or remit some disease. Fruits can not only prevent some heart disease and anemia, but also can remit or cure skin disease. I got acute urticaria last year December, but I did not go to hospital to cure it immediately. Unfortunately, I got chronic urticaria and there were no medicine can totally cure chronic urticaria. However, a doctor suggested that fruits maybe can remit this disease. So, I tried to eat three apples, three oranges, threes oranges and some medicines everyday. Miracles show up, because less urticaria appears on my skin and the frequency of urticaria occurring is reduced in everyday. However, I am sure whether the medicine works or fruits work. So, I stopped to intake one apple, one orange, one banana and the same amount of medicine everyday, but more urticaria showed up on my skin and became worse. I am now absolutely sure that fruits can cure or remit my skin problem, although I can not explain which substance in those fruits cures urticaria. 
Some people said that my experience is not a valid evidence to show that how fruits are important in our daily life. Instead of eating fruits to prevent some disease, teenagers should do more exercise to improve immunity preventing diseases, because their organs and bones would be stronger if teenagers often do exercise. while doing exercise can raise immunity to prevent some disease, it is unfeasible for teenagers who do not have much time to do exercise every day, thus teenagers are encouraged to eat plenty of fruits to prevent disease and improve physical growth. 
fruits and meats are very common in our meal, but teenagers do not know how to balance fruits and meats which they need to intake every day. So, it is important to make teenagers knowing the various nutrition in fruits and meats, and they can choose foods depending on what kind of nutrition they need to absorb in a particular period of time. Fruits bring benefit for teenager's physical growth as well as prevent or remit some disease. Although teenagers should do more exercise such as playing basketball or swimming to strengthen their bone or make their organs stronger being health, doing exercise would cost a lot of time. So, teenagers can eat fruits to achieve the same aim as doing exercise. In the future, I want to search and collect data about how many vitamin, mineral and protein in some specific fruits and meats choosing "king of fruits" and "king of meats." 
