The Negative Side Using Technology Instead of 
Animals in Experiment 
Animal experiment uses and applies in wide range whenever in history or in the present. It contributes a lot in the development of human beings from various areas, such as medical sciences, psychology and anatomy. But at same time, animal protectors question its legitimacy since it is cruel and ignore animal right. In order to solve the problem about legitimacy and ethic, using technology to instead of animals in experiment become a way that most people support with and expect on. However, after researching, in my opinion, using technology to replace animals in experiments is not always a perfect way and has many negative sides. 
	First of all, compared with using animals in experiment, using technology has many limitations. 
According to Katsnelson (2013), technology is not mature now. The acuity of result from technology is a mystery because we cannot evaluate the data and result from new technology, only if we have human data or the high-quality data from animal to compare with. Unfortunately, we do not have them either now. The one of most important use of animal experiment is to test drugs. If we use the immature technology, they may cause great danger of the health of human beings. 
Also, the technology is impractical since it is innovate. As my interviewee, <name>, a research assistant in animal experiments, said new technology need people pay huge attention on because any emergence may happen in any time due to the instability of new technology, such as cell culture. Cell culture is a model of living environment of cell. It can help to imitate the effect of drug on human cells. However, this technology needs to be care in any time because the cell in petri dish is unstable and easy to die. 
Most importantly, innovate technology always need huge amount of money. The research and development on technology all need investment. In one article (Katsnelson, 2013), it mentions that a leader of Human Toxome Project, which research on developing advanced, non-animal lab tests for toxicity testing, believes animal experiment can be replace completely with enough investment. However, I believe it mush cost a lot. 
Secondly, beside the limitation of technology, replacing animals by others will also cause big mess on the existing research. For those people already are doing the experiment using animals, their thought will be influenced (Katsnelson, 2013). For example, imagining an old researcher spent his half on one experiment. For now, you want change his experiment subjects into computer or other technology instead of animals, it must cause him a long time know how to operate it and how to adopt it. His research method may completely be changed and messed up. My point on this is to adopt a new method will cause people much time and definitely affect their thought on the pervious research. 
Thirdly, unlike the animal protectors' thought, replacing animals by others actually do not help any animals in the research. According to Yanying, because of huge demand of research animals, they are cultivated and grew by specific companies for the purpose of using in research. If no longer use them in experiment, they will not exist in this world. Their purpose of live is to be used in research. Some protectors may state that the research animals should be released in the nature. However, without the cultivation of people, those small animals, such as mice and rabbits may also die because of predator or others. Most seriously, if we do not use animal anymore, those companies grew them will bankrupt and the employees will lose their job, even may cause negative effect on economy and employment rate. 
From those evidences, I believe replacing animals by technology is not always a good idea and have many negative effects. According to my pervious research, not all results support my opinion. The most influenced source is the interview I done. She gave me many real-life experiences and evidences make me question that benefits of using technology in experiment. Although I believe it is not a perfect way, I still cannot judge the right or wrong about animal experiment. I also cannot deny the feasibility of eliminating animals in experiment using technology. However, the future of replacing animal by technology in experiment will be harsh and difficult to achieve in short time I think. In addition, during the investigation, I found many stories about that the animal protectors try to stop the animal experiment. One of example is the laboratory in Milan. They pushed pressure to the researchers in order to stop animal experiment by broking into the lab and messing up the label on the cage, and even use their own lives to threat researchers. I think this action is not appropriate and we need to think more logically about the animal experiment and technology. 
Reference Lists 
Katsnelson, A. (2013, June 10). Will we ever. eliminate animal experimentation? BBC. Retrieved from http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20130609-will-we-ever-end-animal-testing 
Pan, Yanying. Personal interview. 3 March 2015. 
