P5D1 
11/18/2015 
Soccer culture dominates the progress of soccer 
As soccer has dramatically growing influences in people's life, a reflection that why the competitiveness among clubs or countries differs obviously is generated. Sometimes, sorrow because of favorite team's defeat will impact a soccer fan's emotion for several days, while excitement come from the victory will motivate someone's everyday in the next month. Based on the interview with <name> and article materials published, I strongly reckon that how well a team plays is almost attributed to the soccer culture. 
Furthermore, in the article" What Soccer means to the world", the author Tony Karon mentioned another form of soccer culture: globalization. Due to the globalization, very face of nationhood is changing over the world. It is easily seen that athletes in those most impactive football club, Manchester United and Real Madrid, respectively have their race's skin color. This phenomenon positively reflects that soccer has already contained variety in the earth. The connotation of soccer is much more profound than differences or conflicts among races. As the stream of each race gathers into the ocean of soccer, a great soccer culture forms. Communication of worldwide soccer presents and begin to develop towards higher level. Realizing the benefits of that, president of Real Madrid, Florentino, consistently imports the best player from every corner of the world. And this is probably the reason why Madrid FC has been considered as one of the grandest club throughout the history. A glance at the list of player of Madrid FC, James Roderigez from Columbia, Luka Modric from Kroatia, Christiano Ronaldo from Portugal, etc. It is exactly the graceful cooperation created by these genius that brings their club one more championship of champions league. This kind of soccer culture is generally recognized by people and actually is the most essential element that prompt the modern soccer. 
Admittedly, some critics would say that fundings and government's support play more important roles in the grade of a soccer team. I don't deny the existence of their influences, but as a matter of fact, fundings or government's support can be affected by great soccer culture, which can be proved by fandoms' actions. For instance, when Wenger, the manager of Arsenal, did not bought any players to enhance strength of his team, Arsenal fans organized several parades to protest Wenger's negative act even though Arsenal possesses the most sufficient cash storage in Europe. Impacted by fans' behaviors, Wenger bought the most valuable Mid field player, Mezut Ozil, and since then, by the organization of Ozil, Arsenal gradually became unstoppable in the league. This is exactly how fandoms' enthusiasm and responsibility make the club change, and increase intrusion of funding into construction of club. And if see this condition in big picture, that soccer culture is more powerful than fundings and authority proves my disagreement with those critics. Protest called by people in China also forces government to replace the president of relative apartment. This is another evidence that government's support is less essential than soccer culture, the loyalty and sincerity to the soccer. 
Conclusively, if anybody asks what makes a team so successful, I would always respond soccer culture as answer. Soccer culture is like a mentality of human, an intention to make soccer more perfect, and a spontaneous as well as subjective instinct. Therefore, any problems hamper the progress of soccer can be overpowered, eliminated by soccer culture. Somebody may doubt that no one can define the concept of soccer culture. Of course, I may not , either. But the only thing I know is that humanity is able to dominate the fate of a team, and the same time, soccer culture forms, together with "you will never alone" sung by fandoms of Liverpool standing in the Anfield Stadium. 
