Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
11/15/2015 
Breakfast's Health Benefits Versus Its Costs 
	Breakfast consumption has been established as a healthy dietary habit and is followed by the majority of the society, although this notion of breakfast has been challenged recently. As cited by Mc Crory (2014), 16% and 12% of American men and women regularly skipped breakfast between 2009 and 2010. Seemingly valid reasons such as unclear health benefits and avoidable costs of breakfast appear to have promoted people to skip the meal. A closer examination, though, would reveal these reasons to be, by nature, rather illogical. People should regularly consume breakfast because the nutrition and health benefits of breakfast outweigh its cost. 
	Breakfast is proven by multiple studies to have positive effects on mood and cognition, so breakfast consumption should be practiced to promote a sense of well-being. Among the studies, one adolescent study (Defeyter and Russo, 2013) concluded that breakfast-skipping adolescents who were fed breakfast show an overall increase in self-reported mood and satiety, and perform better at cognitive tasks, especially when the tasks require memorization or are mentally demanding. Another study (Benton & Parker, 1998) examined breakfast and cognition in adults by recruiting college students (mean age of 21. 3 years) as experimental subjects, and has also concluded that the increase in blood glucose after consuming breakfast leads to better memory. The opposite is observed in <name> (2015) dietary counseling of college students, where many students report feeling tired, sleepy, or deprived after skipping breakfast. Judging from the existing sources, the memory-improving properties of breakfast are promising, so breakfast should be regularly consumed in order for one to stay focused. 
	Despite the benefits of consuming breakfast, a large number of people still choose to skip breakfast, and the major reason for doing so is to lose weight (Levitsky & Pacanowski, 2014). Inconsistencies in breakfast-weight studies, though, do not support such a property of breakfast omission. Because of the effect of reducing satiety, skipping breakfast is not as simple as removing calories from daily energy intake: some of the energy may be regained later in the day. Mc Crory (2014) summarized three models describing different energy intake patterns when breakfast is skipped. The three models are under-compensation, perfect compensation, and over-compensation. An under-compensation pattern would result in a long-term weight loss, an over-compensation pattern would result in a long-term weight gain, whereas a perfect compensation would result in no weight gain/loss. Theoretically, one of the three patterns should be able to explain the outcomes of skipping breakfast, but since all three patterns have been identified in breakfast and body weight studies (Levitsky & Pacanowski, 2013; Kobayashi et al., 2014; O'Neil, Nicklas, & Fulgoni, 2014), researchers could not establish a consensus on the effect of breakfast. Instead of supporting the three models as stated above, some researchers (Dhurandhar et al., 2014; Mc Crory, 2014) hypothesize that the effect of breakfast consumption habits on reducing body weight should be explained by a different process: it is the change in diet style, not the superiority of a particular breakfast pattern, which causes weight loss. However, Dhurandhar et al. (2014) debunked their own hypothesis after they have gathered enough data, while Mc Crory (2014) had not yet gathered enough evidence for this hypothesis. In short, currently researchers cannot determine the exact effects of breakfast on body weight. 
If one really wishes to lose weight, he/she should consider following certain scientifically based weight loss plans instead of relying on skipping breakfast. A few popular weight loss plans, Atkins, Zone, Ornish, LEARN, Weight Watchers and Mediterranean diet, have all been experimentally confirmed to have weight-loss properties (Matarese & Pories, 2014). Comparing to the unreliable method of skipping breakfast, these well-designed weight loss plans are experimentally shown to be effective and reliable for the purpose of losing weight. Because of this, body weight should not become a reason for people to skip breakfast. 
As stated in previous paragraphs, there are many studies that examine the diverse health benefits of breakfast. From a different perspective, there has not been any study that explicitly reports breakfast consumption to be detrimental to human health in any aspect either. In other words, health consequence is not a reason to skip breakfast. Yet, healthiness may not be the only factor for determining a meal's importance. With all of the benefits of breakfast, it can still be argued that, breakfast should be skipped to avoid costing too much money or time. 
Indeed, breakfast omission may appear to be a good way to reduce money expenditure, especially when the costs of traditional American breakfast foods, for example, bacon and eggs, have been rising during recent years (White, 2014). However, in most breakfast consumption/omission trials (Levitsky & Pacanowski, 2013; Kobayashi et al., 2014), researchers almost always find a statistically significant increase in energy intake at subsequent meals, regardless of the type of energy pattern reported by the trial. In other words, a portion of the surplus of wealth gained from skipping breakfast will be spent on lunch or dinner. If breakfast omission is shown to lead to perfect-compensation or over-compensation during subsequent meals, as supported by certain studies (Kobayashi et al., 2014; O'Neil, Nicklas, & Fulgoni, 2014), then there might even be a net loss of wealth because more food is purchased throughout the day. Hence, as long as one does not rely on a buffet-style lunch, the net gain of wealth achieved by skipping breakfast will likely be much less significant than the full cost of breakfast. 
The time spent in eating breakfast seems unavoidable, but a closer examination of the issue infers that some of the "lost" time may be regained through increases in cognitive abilities. The increase in sense of well-being after consuming breakfast (<name>, 2015) and improve in cognition (Defeyter & Russo, 2013) can in turn increase productivity. In this way, although a certain amount of time will be lost while eating breakfast, time will be saved back by making the rest of the day more efficient. Combining these pieces of information, it can be concluded that, although breakfast costs both money and time, these costs are largely complemented by the benefits of breakfast. The net costs are low, so they should not stand out as reasons for one to skip breakfast. 
	Current evidence suggests that breakfast consumption has multiple health benefits such as improvements on mood, cognition and potential benefits on maintaining body weight. No evidence has been found to support negative effects of breakfast on human health. The money and time spent in consuming breakfast are valid, but are in fact small in magnitude, so they should not be convincing enough to discourage people from eating the meal. Hence, to summarize, regular breakfast consumption is worth its cost, and should be followed as a standard practice to improve health. 
