23 November 2015 
Social Media influence Teenagers 
The controversial arguments about effect of social media toward teenagers (especially college students) have been increasing recently. Most people in society now concern about negative aspect toward teenager on social media, such as cyber bullying, mental illness or false information. Because people too focus on those issues and forget to realize the importance of social media. The main function of social media is a share space that can spread information in faster and quicker way; therefore, it can creates the benefit that outweigh the negative aspects that teenagers can get form using it. We should encourage teenager use more social media rather than limit it because it improves teenager's life style, education, or even future careers. 
Social media can facilitate friendship and family relationship by chatting and posting pictures or articles. Teenager in college sometime experience depression, loneliness and pressure. Therefore, social media become a place for teenagers to seek out support from friend and family or give them a place to express their emotion. This can not only bring happiness but also build up better mental health. Throughout my research on the statistic of American nursing journal, it stated, "On a scale of every 100 people, 75 out of 100 teenagers receive emotional support, 76 out of 100 teenagers get into companionship, and 75 out of 100 teenagers receive an instrumental aid while using social media". This statistic mean that almost 75 percent of teenager can receive mental support and mental support means better health. In addition social media is better than phone when experience time difference, because it let you post anything at any time. For those teenagers who are too shy of talking in public, posting daily life experience is the other way to improve social life and allow them to make new friends. 
After experience college life, teenager is going to turn into young adult. They start to face internship and new job. Social media can become a great assist tool for them. When they try to market company's products, social media can help advertise with less cost than using other ways and spread the information faster toward social media users. Like what Canada business article, "Social Media and Business: A Necessary Partnership", states in its article, "In order to reach their long range goals, a business needs to have a solid social media strategy that focuses on marketing itself effectively. (Groff 6)". Second assists is young adult can use it as a space for problem solving on company's products. For instance, they can ask users on social media by posting some questions when they encounter obstacles and see what is the suggestion and ideas to solve the problems. To gather people's opinions and ideas can not only solve problems but also read people's reviews to improve products. Most important of all, for young adult who want to create their own business, social media is a great tool for small or median size companies grow when facing larger companies' competition base on the speed of information spreading. 
After teenager get their new job and enter the society, we cannot only concern about ourselves but also help others around the world. When using social media, we can know variety of news from different country and start to be aware of it. This is the start point to realize the important of them and tried to help out. For instance, the dictatorship government block most of the news from their country. Social media becomes a tool for people break the government block to connect the outside world. Arab spring is example of teenagers participate and facilitate social media in revolutions or social movements. They successfully spread the message of brutality of the security apparatus, unemployment, rising prices, and corruption of their country to the world and let the world realize and start to concern about those issues. Social media can also become a place for teenager to gather people who have similar ideas about changing the society and protest to the world. Black lives matter is the great example of it. Groups of teenagers who believe that the society need to have same value of skin colors by using social media to gather people to protect black folks. In addition, people can also create charity to collect donation from worldwide in a short time in order to provide better care to people who need help immediately. On the other hand, teenagers can use social media to help government. The Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill is the great example of it. According to the article, "Improving the Accessibility of Social Media in Government", it stated "The Environmental Protection Agency, however, has also used its existing social media muscle to communicate how it is monitoring and responding to potential public health and environmental concerns." (Howard 1). Teenagers are the main users of social media muscles, because of their help; social media provides citizen better health and environment concern. Fed Space is another government operation that teenagers can help for improving. As the same article from previous quote, it stated "Social media and government is the new way that agencies or officials share or gather information, collaborate with the public in addressing the grand challenges for the 21st century or build better policy through online engagement. (Howard 2). For example, teenagers can be helpers for federal agencies to find out some crimes users that show on TV or newspapers. Just like the recent news, a couple got arrested for Ohio bank robbery after posting picture on Facebook. Teenagers spread the post and lead police to track down the couple. 
	The increase of teenage social media users creates benefit but also cost. Some people argue that social media create severe damage toward teenager, but it can solved by law and education. A share place means your personal information can spread to people around the worlds with legal access to your personal profile. According to an observational study, "How Safe do Teenagers Behave on Facebook", stated that, "social media created unintended consequences of revealing these sorts of risky information include damaged reputation, gossip, stalking, identity-theft and the use of personal information by third parties" (Vanderhaven 1). However, this can be solved by better regulate online software such as amazon did on their security. They used public PGP key to let worldwide professional software engineer to improve their security. Another issue is minority people put false information and create a big influence in others' life. Further consequence might let other people end up losing the ability of getting a job. For example, there is a news article called "Using Social Media as a Weapon to harm victims" wrote, "a local community Web site with a social media forum in it was the source of the libelous rants accusing him of being a pedophile and a drug addict. The libelous postings about Cooley negatively impacted his ability to find work in Blairsville and surrounding communities" (Aziriel 1). At this point, law is the only solution to deal with them. Social media need to create a better term of illustrate the severe consequence if sharing illegal or false information online. Educational is another great option for limit the risk behaviors that teenagers have on social media. Mental illness, depression and obesity are also negative concern from social media. These health effects consider being really serious. Learning from one of the article, "Health Effects of Media on Children and Adolescents", it mentioned, "Recent evidence of teenage users' illness raises concerns about media's effects on aggression, sexual behavior, substance use, disordered eating, and academic difficulties." (Strasburger 271) and another article called "Sexting, Selfies and Self-harm: Young People, Social Media and the Performance of Self-development", it mentioned, "Based on his visits to other schools and universities, the incidence of mental illness among teenagers appeared to be rising. This was manifest in eating disorders, self-harm, abuse of supplements to "bulk up" in the gym, obsessive compulsive disorders and even attempts at suicide." (Gabriel 1). In order to solve these problems, friends and family are your best support by giving you positive energy. The biggest problem on social media is still cyberbullying, because company cannot prevent people rights of speech. The best way to deal with is just ignore and have a positive view toward them. 
	Social media is just a multifunctional tool. It is not good or bad itself. The reason why people think it is bad for teenagers is that there are some minority make it worse off. Therefore, we are not supposed to limit the use of social media rather than using policies to regulate peoples' behaviors. When people sign up an account on social media, most people do not read the term of use because of the wordiness. There are better way to implement those policies. For instance, make term of use in one single page, because most people will feel impatient when they have to scroll so many pages and read them all. Second suggestions is make important policy guidelines noticeable instead of using the same font. Another suggestion for improving software is toward people who try to post offense words or comments; the software should bring up a warning and say what policy you violate. If you violate policies in a certain limit, your account will get ban. These solutions will let social media become a better regulate share space for teenagers and create big amount of positive effects toward users. 
Works citied 
Azriel, Joshua. "Using social media as a weapon to harm victims: recent court case show need to amend section 230 of the communications decency act." Journal of Internet Law 15. 1 (2011): 3-10. Web. 
Gabriel, Fleur. "Sexting, Selfies and Self-harm: Young People, Social Media and the Performance of Self-development." Media International Australia Incorporating Culture and Policy 151 (2014): 104. Web. 
Groff, Adam. "Social Media and Business: A Necessary Partnership." Social Media and Business: A Necessary Partnership. 5 Jan. 2015. Web. 27 Nov. 2015 
Hurst, Greg. "Teenagers Warned of Mental Health Risk from Social Media." 6 Dec. 2013. 	Web. 27 Nov. 2015. 
Hampton, Keith. "Social Networking Sites and Our Lives." Pew Research Center Internet Science Tech RSS. 15 June 2011. Web. 18 Sept. 2015. 
Strasburger, Victor C, Amy B Jordan, and Ed Donnerstein. "Health Effects of Media on Children and Adolescents." Pediatrics 125. 4 (2010): 756-67. Web. 
Vanderhoven, Ellen, et al. "How Safe do Teenagers Behave on Facebook? an Observational 	Study." PLo S One 9. 8 (2014): e104036. Pro Quest. Web. 27 Nov. 2015. 
