The Verdict: Academic and Social Aspects of Culture Shock 
Abstract 
	Every international student experiences culture shock whenever they go to a different country. Culture shock can be both positive and negative, and can affect different aspects of life like academics, social, economical, and political. In this argumentative essay, various resources and interview with <position>, <place>, <name>, helped in determination of social and academic barriers for international students. Most researchers just talked about the negative effects related to culture shock and they always mentioned how the social life of international students is impacted. Some experimenters linked the negative social impacts on a student's lifestyle are directly proportional to academics. A conclusion was drawn that culture shock affects the social life of international students, but doesn't directly impacts the academic life and possible ways to reduce the impact of culture shock among international students was discussed. 
The Verdict: Academic and Social Aspects of Culture Shock 
Introduction 
Shock is a sudden experience when a person is distressed. Culture is defined as beliefs of a certain group of people or a society. Hence, culture shock is when a person experiences a new culture and starts feeling dejected. Culture shock starts off with the honeymoon stage, where the person is excited about the change, and is followed by the second stage, which is called distortion, in which change starts to become less interesting and exciting. The next stage after distortion is called Adjustment stage, when the person begins to get comfortable with the new culture, and the final stage is called Mastery stage where the new culture starts to feel like a second home. Culture shock is a common concern among international students travelling to United States. According to the Institute of International Education (2014), the total international enrollment in the United States was 886,052 and out of that 11. 6 % were Indian students coming in second to Chinese in total international enrollment. Despite the common beliefs that culture shock negatively affects the social and academic life of international students; I argue that culture shock doesn't have a direct impact on academic life of international students. 
Challenges Faced by International Students 
Koenigstein (2012) states that international students have more rigid curriculum that makes them academically efficient as compared to domestic students, and international students are highly motivated to succeed in American Universities despite their other concerns. Araujo (2011) mentioned about six areas where international student have adjustment issues: English language proficiency, social support, length of stay in the US, perceived discrimination or prejudice, establishing relationship with Americans, and homesickness. Although the articles doesn't directly talks about academic or social barriers, but these adjustment issues can be indirectly linked with both of them. For example, having language issues can be a problem for some international for understanding academic material and discrimination can also cause international students to be socially more neglected. Xia (2009) talks about the psychological impacts of culture shock on international students like verbal and nonverbal communication. Stress is the one of the major negative impact of culture shock that can further lead to depression, anxiety, and helplessness. 
Case Study: America and India 
There are various academic and social differences between the American and the Indian education system. In the American education system extracurricular activities are given equal importance with academics, whereas in the Indian education system, extracurricular activities are hardly given any importance. Indian education system offers more flexibility in determination of subjects as to its American counterpart and is more math intensive, as stated by Chaubal (2011). Gooch (2015) discusses various lifestyle differences between Indian and American students; major issues faced by Indian students are language, food, and other social aspects. There wasn't anyplace in the article where culture shock being a barrier for international students was mentioned. The video (Life of an international student, 2013) lists salient features of American universities: American universities are built like their own cities and most of them are college towns with everything around the college related to it. The libraries are huge and open 24 hours where you can meet the students of same academic interests. US universities have big stadiums defining rich sports culture usually American football. 
Opposition 
Wu et al. (2014) talks about both academic as well as social barriers for international students. For determining the barriers, a survey was conducted in which ten students were chosen and their responses were noted. Hence researchers concluded the following things the academic barriers that hamper international students progress: interaction with professors, isolation from classmates, language barrier, and pressure of parents' expectation. Besides academic barriers, various social barriers were also considered: communication patterns, notion of punctuality, and prejudice against international students. Language barrier and less interaction with professors can be an obstruction for international students to do well in academics, and prejudice against international students can also be a social disadvantage for them. This clearly gives a valid opposition to my stand that culture shock impacts both social and academic life of international students equally. 
Counter Argument 
