P5d3 Argumentative Essay 
May 1, 2015 
Argumentative Essay on Swatting: A Hoax with a Deadly Sense of Humor 
Swatting, a term that is becoming even more popular among gamers by the day. But what exactly is 'swatting'? To sum it up briefly, it involves a delinquent making a prank call to force the police to send in a SWAT team to the premises of an unaware and innocent victim. As you can see, swatting is a big problem in the USA and it is considered a dangerous crime. Despite that fact, efforts to neutralize swatting have had a run into a stone wall. In my opinion, the greatest reason is because people do not consider swatting much of 'a big deal' and hence does nothing to prevent it. However, I believe swatting should be regulated quickly and efficiently. In order to do so, we must increase its public awareness and heavily involve certain parties to do their part in stopping this potential threat which include: the police, the legislature, the hackers, and the general public. 
First, let us talk about what our law enforcement agencies can do. Since swatting revolves around a fake emergency call to 911, our constabulary should create a system that can differentiate between prank calls and real emergency calls. They should also change the way they respond to such cases. Instead of immediately sending in an entire SWAT team to raid that area, they could first send one or two uniformed personnel to check the actual situation. If these precautions still fail, they could redeem themselves by quickly locating the suspect. This is because usually the perpetrator could remain unknown despite of months of searching. 
Next, I argue that lawmakers should create stricter punishments to swatters. Swatting is still rampant due to the fact that it does not justify a harsh enough punishment. In the event of someone going to trial for swatting, the court would usually only sentence them to house arrest, probations, fines, or a year or two in prison. I think that something as dangerous as swatting deserves a more severe consequence, such as ten years of imprisonment. However, some people would argue that most swatters are either children or teenagers and that any rougher penalty would be going too far. I strongly disagree with their statements. Even though they are minors, they should also be prepared for the aftermath should they even dare to swat. This is because swatting involves risking human lives which should not be taken lightly. Therefore, they should be judged equally as an adult despite of their younger age. 
Ever wondered why the police tend to either take a long time to find any suspects or fail in their investigations entirely? This is because swatters usually use sophisticated programs to mask their true identity. To add insult to injury, these applications are readily available on the internet for anyone to use. These applications are provided by numerous hackers for free and they do not require any level of skill to utilize. Because the tools required for swatting is very easy to access, it is no wonder people do it more often. I trust it is the hacker's responsibility to remove easy access to such programs so we can reduce any potential swatters in the future. If we can make it difficult for people to acquire the means of swatting, then people would turn away from the practice. 
Finally, the efforts of the people mentioned above would be in vain if individuals like us do not support it. For that reason, we should concern ourselves about swatting as well. But what can we do about a problem as difficult and complex as swatting? For starters, we can simply raise awareness about swatting to other people. This can be done by sharing information about swatting to the close people in your lives and tell them to spread the message. If the government sees that many people think this is a problem, it will give them an incentive to act in haste and decisively. Furthermore, we can prevent the swatters themselves if they happen to be someone you know. You can lecture them about why swatting is a dangerous prank and hopefully stop them entirely. 
Swatting could be very troubling if we do not start handling it from now. If we are to be successful, it is best if we take early precautions before the problem can no longer be contained. This is why I urge everyone to do their part to set these precautions into effect. Law enforcement agencies should make sure that the emergency call is real. Legislators should impose strict laws to prosecute swatters. Hackers should remove the means swatters use to do easy swatting. And ultimately, we should spread the word about swatting and be aware of anyone around us who could be a swatter. Hopefully, these types of efforts could eventually erase the practice of swatting. 
