Argumentative Essay 
Purdue University 
(Final Draft ) 
Argumentative Essay 
Have you ever heard about Purdue Airport? I think you have heard about it before, but have you ever visit Purdue Airport? Do you know it is a great idea for Purdue students to learn how to fly airplane. This is because Purdue provides students with all the sources they need to become a pilot. Flying airplane is safe affordable and not very difficult. 
Some may say flying airplane is expensive and useless. Students will need to spend a lot of money to do flight training, because they need to pay both for instructor and renting the airplane. Also most flight school require students to purchase insurance which can also cost a lot. Even though students have enough money to do the flight training, getting a pilot license can be useless for most students since it is impossible for students to buy an airplane on their own. This means even with a pilot license student still cannot get a lot of chances to fly. What can you do with a pilot license? 
Students can get flight training by joining PPI.(Purdue Pilot Inc) Once students join PPI, they can get a lot of benefits for their flight training. First of all, PPI covers students' liability insurance which is up to 100000 dollars. Second, students can save 20-40 dollars once by renting PPI's airplane. Getting a pilot certificate requires students to get at least 40 hours flight training, so students can save up to 800 dollars by flying PPI's airplane. So how much will it cost if student try to do flight training with PPI? According to the PPI's website, student usually need to spend 7000$ cover their fight training and the flight test. If the students do the flight training with flight school like Lafayette Aviation, student usually have to spend at least 11000 dollars. (Purdue Pilot Inc, 2015) Some people may ask whether the pilot license is useful or not? Students do not have to worry whether they have enough money to purchase an airplane or not because most private pilots do not have their own airplane. It is very common for private pilot to rent an airplane to fly. Renting an airplane may cost 150 dollars per hour. Once students get their private pilot license they can fly both warrior(single engine aircraft) and jet(small engine aircraft). They can do some flight travel if they want. 
Getting a pilot license won't cost to that much. But is it hard to learn how to fly airplane? It is not difficult to fly an airplane.I have done flight training several times and I do not think flight training is very difficult even because I do not have flying experience before and my major does not have any connection to aircraft. My instructor is very patient. He clearly explained me what are all the equipments on aircraft for. The aircraft itself is not difficult to operate. I have to pay attention to the wind speed and wind's direction because the wind can change to direction of aircraft. The most important thing is I have to make airplane turn and make the airplane go up and down. It takes quit a long time to know how to control the direction. Besides training I can also learn about the structure and function about airplane by reading the materials provide by FAA. All the materials are on FAA's website for free. (FAA. 2015) With the help of these materials and the flight instructor, it can be much easier for me to learn flying. 
Some air crash happened recently, so people may concern about the safety of learning how to fly. Actually flight training is pretty safe and is even safer than lots of other transportation(FAA, 2006) The instructor will try to guarantee students safety, even when students make some mistakes. The technology on the aircraft can also help pilot avoid some kind of danger. Bran Davis a senior student major in Professional Flight Technology also works as an flight instructor shared several flight experiences with me. There was once he made a big mistake while he was still a student pilot. Fortunately, with the help of his instructor they avoided the dangerous situation. There was once he did a night flight when he was really tired so when it was the time for him to take off for landing, he forgot to bring the aircraft's nose up. That was a big mistake because if he doesn't bring the airplane's nose up it may hit the ground. He was scared at that point and his instructor took over the control of airplane and brought the nose up. Since the instructor is with student all the time and he/she can always take the control of airplane, so they can help student avoid the bad situations. Another story he told me was about flying in the bad weather. There was one summer, he and his friends were one a trip to Florida. There came a thunderstorm during his trip. The thunderstorm created a lot of change in wind speed and direction. The changing wind made it difficult for pilot to control the airplane because everything is so unpredictable. It was lucky that Davis got a radar in he airplane. The radar could tell him where all the thunderstorm activities are so he could avoid them. Besides radar the engine heat can melt the ice while the pilot is flying through the snow. With the help of technologies on the aircraft the risk can be much lower. (FAA, 2004) 
In conclusion, flying is interesting and safe. You can find out how beautiful is Purdue University when you see it from the sky. Learning how to fly airplane is really a great idea for Purdue Students. I know it is not possible for all of you to have flight training. But you can still have a chance to fly. Lafayette Aviation has a program called dream flight which means you get a chance to fly with an instructor for half an hour. During this flight the instructor will let you control the airplane so you can have idea how it feels like to be a pilot. The dream fly only cost you 80 bucks. All the thing you have to do is call Lafayette Aviation to sign up for a dream flight then you can have your first real flying course. So why not go and have this personal experience now! 
Reference Page 
https://engineering.purdue.edu/PPI/learn.php (Purdue Pilot Inc. 2015) 
Federal Aviation Administration(2006) Student Pilot Guide 
http://www.faa.gov/regulations_policies/handbooks_manuals/aviation/media/faa-h-8083-27a.pdf 
Federal Aviation Administration (2004) Airplane Flying Handbook Chapter 1 and 2 http://www.faa.gov/regulations_policies/handbooks_manuals/aircraft/airplane_handbook/ 
http://www.faa.gov/training_testing/ (Federal Aviation Administration, 2015) 
[Type text][Type text][Type text] 
3 
Argumentative Essay 
1 
Argumentative Essay 
