11/28/2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Following the previous interview report, I have develop further thinking into my topic of the role of government and how non-government-organization(NGO) can take part of government and act as an individual. My interviewee brings more idea which is completely different from some of the research resources had discussed. Some of the research paper had stated that roles of government can be taken placed by other NGO. For instance, the role of influence the government and providing social welfare or health care. However, during the interview, I see that those are the only aspect of government that has argument about whether it can be replaced or not. In fact, I start to understand that the role of government is to establish rule for markets to work, system of reputation so that investors can feel secure to invest their money into the market. It is true that some of the conservative government take laissez-faire to the market. However the foundation is still constructed by the government. On this argumentative essay, I hold a definite position toward opposing the idea of replacing the government with a series of non-government-organizations. It is neither reliable nor possible to achieve. 
If we consider the non-government-organization in its way of operation, we can draw the connection to the title "non-profit". A core part of NGO is that they use their social connections between a social capital with the part where demands. Social Capital is a type of collection of a framework of social resource which is willing to provide to individual or the individual forming a collection. Briefly, it is a group of provider to individual or a collection of individual. The demand doesn't have to be connect with money, it also can be social or culture related. Some NGO had involved in providing social welfare. As they are doing so, they have to attract social capital who has the resource to provide a service to the public. They need to attract the group and form a combination which the NGO will be a medium between the service providers or suppliers and receivers. 
More than that, the NGO can work efficiently when there's a good social infrastructure exists. The strong connection can be draw without any obstacle. However, the NGO can't exist by its own due to its non-profit characteristic. This is the first point I want to argue, the NGO act as a center part which help the receiver and provider's connection, but its role end at the facilitated level. It can't provide any service by itself. This is a specific example I use social welfare which I have demonstrated in the previous interview report which the NGO have so less accessible resource compare to a government so it can't push a social welfare project to a large population scale. Then I stress that the NGO can facilitate the parts where individual hardly get its demanding voice to a big company and a big company can hardly help an individual. With NGO, the part can work more fluently just like an engine work with the lubricant. 
The other aspect we can expect the government pay a great attention to is the election and the campaign made by government. Political campaigning or marketing is an important part of pre-election process. Voter will receive rather large amount of information from each political party about their ideology and politic policy. Parties will make effort to make slogans or leadership as strong and as clear as possible enable the voters to support them and also vote for them. Though the action of campaigning, public gain knowledge about the parties and also develop better thinking on their expectation to the next government. This action of campaigning also enable the voters and parties to "make most appropriate and satisfactory decisions". [Para#3] The political marketing involves so many different individual to act together. We can see them doing talks on TV, they make presentations and public talk to the public. They also do debates on TV so that people can gain much better idea on their ideology and policies. 
What's the benefit for the fore mentioned actions are they can bring the public a briefer, strong and clearer idea than a white book which tells you the administrative program in few hundred pages. The existence of political campaigning can result in a promotion the government into a better organization. The variety of political campaigning can lead to individual thinking. It's one of crucial role of government to express its ideology to the public understand and support it. Some may claim if a country have only one political party then it shouldn't need to campaign its ideology enable to get support from public. It is true but then it is a form of monopoly. However, it is important to express a party's administration program so that the country can have development by gaining different idea from different people. It is true that sometimes political campaigning cost money but compare the benefit it can bring to the society as a whole, it still brings more than its cost. The role of government is on political campaigning is clear and important. It's also important to speak with the power of authority. It's hard to imagine a NGO will represent a party to do its campaign. It won't gain as much support as the party done by itself because the trusteeship of a NGO is not comparable to a party. Meanwhile, the presenting of the party itself shows honesty and authority. 
Health care, a topic which I have mentioned specifically as an example in the interview report, is a part where get a lot of NGO involved all around the world. "The problem is not one of the lack of technological solution to these problem of an injury or disease, but rather the one of inability to distribute and deliver these information to those in need." Said the author. In some of the developing or undeveloped countries, a key obstacle which kept them from develop is diseases and poverty. In this text it discusses a small community in an undeveloped country accept help from an organization. This organization receive IMF or World Bank's budget on some health program. The organization then use the money to provide help to the local residence in the community. This organization is exist as a transitional part between the money invested and the people who need the help. It uses the money to find the resources which can help the community. It is a fact that the service they can provide can help the local people more than the number on the bank account. But there is still limitations. For instance, if the organization want to help people in larger scale, a city or a province, it is going to require more than provide the service but to publish the information about the detail of help program. Also they are recognized by the local people as a representative of the original resource provider so they have the responsibility to the outcome of help. Last but not least, they have to post their budget plan on a public space so that people can know they spend money correctly and efficiently. 
In conclusion, the role of government can be very important not just to the party itself but to the bigger society or even to a country. The time when we gain more information about a political party is during the campaigning not reading their White book about their own ideology. When we consider the action of campaigning or marketing more than just a gain support from the society but help the party to get better or even the future government to be better, it becomes a crucial part of a government's role to succeed on the campaigning part. Campaigning will bring comparison between different parties, the comparison can help each party to develop. More than that, I see NGO has advantage on gaining support from local community and individual companies. Nevertheless, when they have to apply their duty to a larger scale which covers more population, and more resources. A NGO will be overwhelmed and hardly apply. The NGO always have very small amount of accessible resource than even a small government. They usually have less resource belong to themselves which rely them more or less on external body of financing. Those factors make a NGO to replace a government's role almost impossible to achieve. More than that, it's true that a government's succession can be crucial to a larger society's succession. 
Reference: 
1. Chenhall, Robert H., Hall, Matthew, and Smith, David. "Social Capital and Management Control Systems: A Study of a Non-government Organization." Accounting, Organizations and Society 35. 8 (2010): 737-56. Print. 
2. Raftopoulou, Effi, and Margaret Hogg. "The Political Role of Government-sponsored Social Marketing Campaigns." European Journal of Marketing 44.7/8 (2010): 1206-227. Web. 
3. Poore, P. "Availability of Quality Vaccines: Policies of a Non-government Organization." Vaccine 10. 13 (1992): 958-60. Web. 
