Landscape architects need to redesign continuously 
People like to visit parks in order to get rid of working pressure and refresh themselves. In light of this, landscape architects do their best to design attractive parks. Yet, they sometimes made mistakes unintentional. The mistakes may cause vital issue or just make visitors feel uncomfortable for a short instant. In some cases, landscape architects avoid to redesign parks in order to save the costs or pass the buck. In other cases, they think the mistakes are so small that they need not to qualify. Landscape architects should redesign their parks and remove or correct the bad things. 
First, landscape architects must ensure the safety of parks. Bryant Park which located near the New York Library is a good example. It used to be considered as one of the most dangerous place in New York. The reason why some people break into the park and commit crime is that other people cannot look through the fence, which make bad guys think they are relatively safe. Obviously, this is a design error. The landscape architect admit is mistake and the situation became better after the park has been redesigned and the fence were removed. However, some people questioned this decision because the crime proportion at night was increased. But the general number of crime is decreased apparently. Therefore, it is a great example that the landscape architect made an advisable decision to redesign the park and cause a positive result. 
Second, some activities must be built in order to intensify people's personal safety. For instance, landscape architects rebuilt the Central Park's Loop because two people died in traffic accidents made by bicyclists. Initially, landscape architects designed bike way in park loop because the main function of Central Park is cultural, which means it's designed for people. Exercise is an important need for human, and the outdoor exercise area is scarce, especially in middle of Manhattan. For this reason, it is necessary to allow people ride bike and jog at Central Park's pathway. Consequently, the activity place cannot be demolished, but landscape architects realized that the design error threated the safety of people, which is a pressing issue. Hence, they separated the ways of drivers, cyclists and pedestrians. In consequence, traffic accidents have been significantly reduced, and visitors' personal security have been guaranteed. In conclusion, landscape architects solved the security problem and keep the function of parks at the same time by change the original design in the proper way. 
Third, landscape architects must consider about the timeliness and aging of building materials. For example, Owensboro Park is a skate park which located in Kentucky. This park was built in 1999, and most of the skate ramps were built out of wood. Because the rain, sun and ice kept deteriorating the plywood and support beams on the ramps, these ramps are too dangerous to use. After the park has been built, powder-coated steel began to be widely used. The landscape architect select this steel to rebuilt the park and ramps in order to match the standards of equipment and ramps today, which means they are expected to last at least 20 years. Moreover, they are going to build an in- ground skating area, which is more durable. In consequence, the safety of skaters is ensured, and the park officials could expect an ongoing revenue stream from the admission in next 20 years. This example shows that it is important to pay attention to technological advancements and use them to improve currently situation. Moreover, landscape architects need to consider about the properties of building materials when they design parks. In the example above, wood is obviously a bad material to build outdoor skate ramps. In short, landscape architect dealt with the material unsuitable for outdoor environment and increased security for skaters on this matter. 
Based on the discussion above, landscape architects need to keep revising their park plans and correct the error even if the parks were already built. Visibility, main function and about the usage life of building materials must be assured. Certainly, other essential factors should be satisfied as much as possible. Hence, the corrections of design mistakes are necessary. Although the rebuilding can modify the initial mistake, this process cost more money and time than doing well in the beginning. Modification is a kind of "scratches the surface of a problem". To remedy this situation, landscape architects should analyze the natural and constructed condition before they decide building material and have supervision to pursue full implementation of construction documents. Furthermore, they need to consider the design as a cyclical and iterative process. Inspection is the way to avoid the troubles after parks are built improperly. 
