Class: ENGL 106 
The Truth of The Glass Ceiling Phenomenon 
For decades of years, the issues of equality and equity based on gender have always be a controversial social problem attract people's attentions in China. In China's workplaces, people witnessed the development of tons of excellent enterprises and intelligent leaders, however, none of those successful business works related to women or at least for the past ten years we severely heard of a world-known Chinese female leader. Basically, China seems under the control of male leaders. For this phenomenon, sociologists and fellow educators used Glass Ceiling this definition to describe females' dilemma, which refers to there exist transparent obstacles that impeded businesswomen from reaching a high level position in the companies and achieve higher career goals. What reasons may contribute to the explanation of this phenomenon? Why the society always takes women as vulnerable group? Those questions can truly arouse people's reflection. 
	To begin with, gender stereotype is one of the main reasons causes this problem. Looking back on the history of China, most of the emperors and politicians are all male, female forbid interfered in politics and business. There even has a traditional proverb perfectly described ancient women's condition, which is "Inability constitutes the very virtue of a woman". Like my interviewer Ms. <name> said "At any point in time, the actual distribution of men and women in the society depend not simply on the current existing allocation rules, but on the legacies of past allocation rules and past gender-specific labor force participation rates."Personal Communication, March 25,2016 Definitely, nowadays gender discrimination is like a by-product of the historical legacies. " Gender discrimination now is so deeply embedded in organizational life as to be virtually indiscernible. Even the women who feel its impact are often hard-pressed to know what hit them."Debra& Joyce, 2000 People take for granted that men should be the person work outside, women should undertake the responsibilities to take care the whole families. For example, once a woman gives a birth for a baby, they are anticipated to quit job in order to take care the baby instead of work outside. The consequence is that once she comes back to the company, she will find herself demoted after her maternity leave. 
In addition, gender earnings differential is also an essential reason cannot be neglected. Women make considerable contributions to corporations but still get paid less than men who have the same positions as them in the company. Some male leaders are willing to arrange significant projects to male workers rather than female workers as a result of the stereotype to women that they are weaker than men and lack work experiences. As a result, in the company, male workers gain more working experiences and eventually get promotions; on the other hand, female workers still get nothing. Clearly enough, gender stereotype ingrained in people's mind and becomes the big obstacle blocked female from reaching a high level position in the business world. 
	However whether the gender stereotype is the only answer for the Glass Ceiling phenomenon is actually a new question need to ask. I clearly heard many different voices and thinks for the Glass Ceiling. "I don't care whether my executives have a y chromosome, but I want their priority not to be work-life balance, but rather, helping my company to ethically develop the best products in the world." Marty Nemko, 2014 This means, for a company a person can bring how much economic benefits to the company is the most important factor deciding who can sit in the boardroom compare to the gender difference. Oppositely, women's communication styles, certain behaviors to handle things are the reason why they can't be a leader of a company and not suitable to be a leader. Compare to men, women are more irresolute and hesitant when they face some big and important decisions. We can say that this means women are more cautious than men, but as a person who works as a leader, the indirect communication with customers and handling matters can definitely lose many potential customers and let the whole company take finical risks. 
Reference 
Meyerson, D. E., & Fletcher, J. K. 2000, Jan. A modest manifesto for shattering the glass ceiling. Harvard Business Review, 78, 126-136. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com/docview/227837787?accountid=13360 
Applewhite, A. 2002. Why so few women? IEEE Spectr. IEEE Spectrum, 395, 65-66. doi:10.1109/6. 999801 
