Wake Up, Only Admitting System is the Key 
In today society of China, Gaokao, the Chinese national college entrance exam, is always a heat topic in education. The main reason is that it influences or even decides one's life in high school and university. However, I could merely agree with part of that statement. In educational system, there is one part called university admitting system including diversified selection criteria, multiple opportunities, and organized admission committee, with each of them impacting on students' development and opportunities of going to university. While in China, Gaokao is only one of those criteria included in the system. As a result, it is the system behind the Gaokao that shapes students' entire development in high school and their future. 
To begin with, university admitting systems influence students' development considerably with admitting criteria. The system contains various criteria, through which the universities evaluate students' performance and ability in many aspects. Those criteria in some degree push students to work hard and to be competitive for being qualified by university. Therefore, different criteria have distinctively boosted influences on student. Take standard test as an example. Standard tests help student lay solid intellectual foundation for upcoming university life. In terms of those standard tests such as Gaokao, SAT, and TOEFL, they have students concentrated on learning, guaranteeing students to receive those fundamental knowledge required by tests. "Stricter standards and increased testing are better preparing school students for college" asserted by Louis V. Gerstner Jr. in "The Tests We Know We Need", posted on New York Times. In Jan. 1998, Public Agenda found that 66% of college professors said "elementary and high schools expect students to learn too little." By Mar. 2002, after a surge in testing and the passing of NCLB, that figure dropped to 47% "in direct support of higher expectations, strengthened standards and better test, provided by Public Agenda of the article "Where's the Backlash? Students Say They Don't Fret Standardized Tests." Although the knowledge may seem to be only useful in tests, it gradually shapes students' habits to relate themselves more to social events, and forms their own judgments towards arguable issues. Beside those standard tests, there are many other kinds of criteria could be considered. Application essay is one of them. It helps students to think about their choices rationally and encourage them to plan for their future career. While some universities ask students to write down their reasons of applying such university, some require students to write down thoughts such as how the world shapes their dreams. For instance, one topic of Essay for 2015 application of Purdue University is that "Discuss an accomplishment or event, formal or informal, that marked your transition from childhood to adulthood within your culture, community, or family" According to Kelton Render, the counselor of admission committee in Purdue, he said "when students think about those questions, most of them start reflecting of their life, seeking for their goals, dream, and they themselves. After such reflection, the way to the future becomes more clear and brighter because, through a process of thinking, they would be steadfast to realize dreams." Moreover, as one of the criteria, rewards receiving never loses its influence on encouraging students to develop inside out instead of solely intellectually, cultivating their personalities positively. "In academic competitions, not everyone wins or receives a trophy. Those who didn't win can learn to be gracious losers without allowing the loss to damage their self-esteem or hinder their willingness to participate in future competitions" said by Kristine Tucker whose articles have been featured in many online publications. In order to enrich resume or experience, students in high school would make efforts to take part it competitions. Even though this might be too harsh for students, it actually forces them to learn comprehensively and deeply. Finally, not only could rewards make deep impressions on university but importantly enhance students' personality as well. 
The system, for international students, in the US is more complicated, requiring SAT, GPA, application essay, rewards, recommendation letters, and TOEFL. As a result, students in the US are always considered to be more creative, thoughtful and well-rounded. However, not two university admitting systems are exactly the same. For most of universities in China, they use Gaokao as the only criterion throughout the admitting process. Thus, students become scored-oriented and only care about scores from tests. "The system influenced by Gaokao could be regarded as conveyor belt because it conveys outcomes-oriented students." said by Gregory Kristof, a student studying abroad in Tsinghua University, in his article of "Don't Kowtow to the Gaokao." Studying within such system, unfortunately, students passively become one-sided. 
Secondly, Opportunities of going to top universities, provided by different university admitting system, are different. On one hand, the obvious example should be how many times that students have for tests. According to College Board, students could take 7 times of SAT at most in a year. By doing so, the US admitting system let students to show the best to university and prevent a situation that the very test determines one's future. On the contrary, Gaokao, as I have mentioned is an only way to university to most students, is held only once a year in China. Therefore, like the title I put for on another essay I wrote, it is a one-shot gambling. Students put their 12-year effort on this test. Once they fail, the way out is to quit or wait one more year. University is a place providing more chances and opportunities to students, isn't it? However, under such system in China, could one deny that luck doesn't play a role in it? Luck should not take part in this game. On the other hand, another example is that the difference of opportunities exists in choosing universities when one apply and after being accepted. Last year, I had applied at least 10 universities around the US and finally received 6 offers. Having compared those universities, I chose to study in Purdue University after all. By allowing students to apply unlimited universities and choose universities which accept them, the system protects equal opportunities for every students. On the opposite, According to the policy applied in Gaokao, before knowing the scores, students have to complete a form of priority of university they want to get in after the Gaokao. Moreover, after being accepted by the certain university, one is only allowed to enter that university and no alternations remained on the platform. Application ends at that point. In this situation, guessing the scores, students might be over cautious, worrying about missing top university or not being accepted. Because when guessing the scores, suffering the same feeling as that in gambling, one may overestimate or underestimate one's score. Therefore, this rule probably led higher-scored students missing top universities if they underestimated. 
As a consequence, in terms of opportunity, there is a gap between two systems. Maybe the gap is not distinctive enough to be noticed. However, it has great impact on student. Regarding the difference of opportunities, students probably prefer the one that has more chances and, thus, some talents may choose to study abroad instead of staying in China, taking a chance in the "gambling." 
Finally, there is another system-admission committee protecting the equal opportunity. In each admitting system, even the one in the US, there are conflicts during reviewing students' materials. Therefore, the admission committee exists as lubricant, reducing conflict and ensuring fairness to maximum extent. For example, according to Kelton Render, one counselor working admission committee in Purdue University, when students are on the border of lines, he would bring students' materials to the committee and have discussions with other counselors in order to make it fair both to those students and other applicants. Through this method, guarantee of fair decision is made. What's more, in order to keep personal criteria away from reviewing applications, 	admission committee holds training for each qualified counselor every summer, prior to the start of application, based on his statement. Again, fairness is protected. Nevertheless, even there is one thing called admission committee in China, it does not have the functions of protecting the opportunities. As a student studied in Chinese high school for three years, I know that the admitting procedure is inflexible. Universities accept students by ranking students with scores of Gaokao and the committee does not have to worry about the rest of work once it set up the scores line because the computers place students automatically. Consequently, the entire university admitting process in China, for most of cases, only involves the selection based on the scores, without considering other aspects of students. And this definitely harms the opportunities that students have for enrolling in top universities, which confirms students' idea of leaving and push them to vote for a fairer system quietly. 
In conclusion, as an indispensable part of education system, university admitting system has positive influences on students. First of all, the criteria used during the reviewing of application have impacts on students' development. Secondly, the rules of application system influence the opportunity of students being accepted by university. Unfortunately, the admitting system in China neither include so much criteria nor protection of opportunities. Consequently, on the one hand, that most universities take tests as the only criterion makes student less creativity, even less development in other aspects. On the other hand, as a result of unequal opportunity provided by university admitting system, students have to consider studying abroad as their ways out of such dilemma, in order to have better academic progress in future. To change this situation, alternations are necessary. They should be about the university admitting system which is the bridge between students and university. Only those alternations could solve the dilemma that China meets. Only those alternations could help students develop thoughtfully and stop the brain drain happening in China. Wake up, only the university admitting system is the key. 
