	 Argumentative Essay Final 
December 9TH, 2015 
The Influence of Hip Hop Dance to People 
My topic is about the influence of hip hop dance in people's lives and I have researched about it in different perspectives to specify it. Hip hop dance is becoming increasingly popular in today's society as young adults are more willing to seek out and join hip hop dance clubs. Some educators are even considering allowing hip hop dance classes, as they believe it will enrichen campus life and strength students' bodies. My position is that hip hop dance could bring many benefits and change a person's life in a positive way. 
Hip hop dance could improve people's body system and bring people a healthier life style when they do hip hop movements regularly. From my previous interview, many dance movements need certain muscles, so people usually do variety training in order to strengthen and tone those muscles. (<name>, personal communication, October. 8TH, 2015) Also, it is a good way for dancers to develop the sense of balance when dancers make a series of movements. (<name>, personal communication, October. 8TH, 2015) So I think that hip hop dance is really beneficial for muscle at first. Then I learnt that dancing could improve health system to fight against diseases and prevent disabilities, "The health benefits associated with a comprehensive physical fitness program may also be achieved through dance. The aerobic fitness component of dance improves the strength and efficiency of the cardiorespiratory system and reduces excess body fat, which plays a major role in the increased risk of chronic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and heart disease,"(Ward, 2008). Dancing is an efficient exercise to improve body quality, especially for those who are diabetic and even some hospitals use dance to help the disabled recover. Therefore, hip hop dance can illustrate people's life greatly and enhance health quality. 
Hip hop dance could shape people's characteristics and develop abilities which are beneficial for future. According to Johnson(2011), the hip hop dance influences characteristics of young people. Hip hop dance battles allow dancers to get together and develop team spirit through fighting for their dance studios' reputation. (Johnson 2011) Hip hop dance also stimulates these young dancers' innovation. Adults enjoy the advantages that dance brings, but elementary students as well enjoy those advantages. Battisti(2011) summarizes that some educators allow students to have dance classes and these students benefit from dance classes a lot. Dancing can help young children with social, mental and emotional abilities, and even their future direction as, "Creating exciting and productive classes to inspire future artists is the first step to introducing dance education,"(Battisti, 2011). 
Hip hop culture can have advantageous influence on youth and the development of society. From my research, the quantities of benefits indicate that it would help lead people to a bright future. There is an interview that talks about how hip hop dance can help people understand science, which will promote children's study and society's development. In this interview, it is stated that, "We have all types of educators who come on board, and they talk about using hip-hop, you know, in understanding engineering and technology as well as all types of lessons, including the social sciences and language arts,"(Lee, 2013). Therefore, students can learn a lot from those hip hop lessons. Many young people build confidence about themselves through hip hop dance as well. There is one article that talks about how one tiny community travelled to teach Inuit youngsters about breakdancing and hip-hop culture. According to that article, "More important, they also instilled a sense of confidence and self-worth in the youths, many of whom come from troubled homes,"(Seilstad, 2015). 
However, some people hold the opinion that hip hop culture may impact young students in a bad way, for example creating a distraction from studying. However, from evidence previously stated, I believe that hip hop brings more long-lasting advantages versus disadvantages. People could learn a lot from hip hop and improve themselves. People could overcome those little difficulties on their own if they have enough persistence. 
In conclusion, hip hop dance has taken up an important position in today's society. Under people's modification and improvement, it will bring people benefits on physical, mental and social levels. Not just youth, all kinds of people can develop themselves through dancing regularly. 
