Protect Other Species: Rules and Conditions 
	Due to the development of humans, many species, including wild mammals and insects, are on the edge of extinction. Public and associations had established many rules and nature preservation areas to protect endangered species. According to the "News network show" of China. I notice that there are many restrictions on scientific use of insects and animals at the same time. Human have spent many time, efforts and money on animals' protection. I'm curious about the reason why we are protecting them? People hold different views. Some of them may say animals should be protected because they are powerless; some may say it's too cruel to watch an endangered species to extinct. The fact is that many people don't really see the problem in an objective angel. It's true that there are many animals need the protection from human, but for those animals that don't have the ability to live by themselves, the protections for them are too much. In other words, the protection is necessary, but not for all species. 
	There are some brilliant engineers who invented small electronic equipment that can control insects, like cockroaches. They stabbed the device into insect's body in order to change the transmission of electrical signal, and then used a remote control to control their behaviors. With the cheap raw material, the cost of insect robots is really low, but many people think that is too cruel or violating ethical rule to control insects by putting an electronic device in their head. From my personal view, scientists have done nothing wrong. When scientists have experiments on insect, they are just doing the same things as other predator. Human stands on the top level of food chain. We are using other species for experiments because such experiments may give us a better life. Think it this way, if a lion hunted down a deer, we won't see it as a cruel thing, because lions need food, and they are on a higher level of food chain. Lions have to survive themselves. So what's the different between our "cruel" actions and wild animals' necessary hunting? On the other hand, the huge number of insects can't be easily extinct by our experiment. 
In China, there is a well-known animal ---- panda. Panda is the symbol of endangered animal in the world, but I don't think it is really necessary for us to protect them. Government spent millions of dollars establishing nature protection areas for them. In a zoo, pandas even get more attention from zookeeper comparing to other animals. They have been taken good care from the day they were born. However, due to the low efficient reproduction strategy and the demand for special food, the population of panda is still small. The fun fact I learnt from my school research about panda is that they have the digestive system of a carnivore, as well as carnivore-specific genes, and thus deriving little energy and little protein from consuming bamboos (Dierenfeld 1982). Although pandas have sharp claws and tooth, it's still hard for them to survive in wild by eating only bamboos. In other words, they don't have the ability to keep themselves alive. They will disappear from the world without our protection, even though Chinese government has already built a wonderful habitat for panda. Pandas don't have the ability to survive on earth by themselves, so why are we still wasting resources and money protecting them? The breeder and feeding process make no difference between panda and livestock. Human is the only reason that they are still alive. We are like the "guardian" for panda's entire life. If we see problems from the perspective of 'natural selection theory', the extinction of panda is the choice of nature. Vestigial stomach and digest system lead panda to their population's reduction. Human is not God, so why do we need to protect them? We are not special from other species. Ten thousand years ago from now, human was a weak species (Letter to Nature 2003). Predators like bears and tigers killed people following their animal instinct. Would they protect us if we were on the edge of extinction? They wouldn't. Protection for those species that can't survive by themselves seems unreasonable by the theory, and I'm a supporter of reducing the unnecessary protection. 
Although I listed two example of species that should not protect, there are still some animals or insects that worth our protection. For instance, polar bear is an endangered species that needs our help. There are more than 20 thousand polar bears in the North Pole, which is one half comparing to past, from recent research (Polar Bear Ursus Maritimus 2008). Their extinction is caused by humans' over-speed development. Our industrial developments raised the global temperature and destroyed many forest, moorland. Polar bear's habitats decrease as the ice started to melt. Unlike panda, polar bear have the ability to survive in their habitats and they are playing the role as cleaner in North Pole. Polar bear will eat the dead body of whale or other kinds of fish in order to keep themselves alive and keep the ocean clean. They are playing a significant role on earth. Different from those animals that can't live by themselves, polar bear have the ability to survive without humans' all day protection, and due to our over-speed industrial development human are responsible for their decreasing population too. We can easily find out that human should protect polar bears for many reasons. 
From previous examples and arguments, giving appropriate protection those animals that can survive by themselves after our help and stopping wasting resources on those disability animals are what should do. There are more than 8. 7 million species living on the same planet with us (Lee 2011). Some of them will disappear from our world, and there will be new species born on earth. We should not protect every species by farming them, what human should do is to keep the diversity of species with appropriate rules. Protect those functional species that are endangered and stop wasting resources on species that can't live by themselves after our help. 
Reference 
Dierenfeld, E. S. (1982). Utilization of bamboo by the giant panda. Journal of Nutrition 112: 636-641. 
Lee, S. (23 August 2011). Number of species on Earth tagged at 8. 7 million. Nature. Retrieved from http://www.nature.com/news/2011/110823/full/news.2011.498.html 
Schliebe, S., Wiig, ., Derocher, A. & Lunn, N. (IUCN SSC Polar Bear Specialist Group) (2008). Ursus maritimus. IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Retrieved from http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/lps101132/www.fws.gov/endangered/factsheets/polar_bear.pdf 
White, D.; Asfaw, B.; De Gusta, D.; Gilbert, H.; Richards, G. D.; Suwa, G.; Howell, F. C. (2003). Pleistocene Homo sapiens from Middle Awash, Ethiopia. Nature 423 (6491): 742-747. Retrieved from http://www.nature.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/nature/journal/v423/n6941/full/nature01669.html 
