Argumentative Essay, Draft 3 
4/21/2016 
How Opportunity Cost Plays An Important Role In Our Daily Lives 
According to Parkin (2010), who is a highly ranked professor in the department of economics from the University of Western Ontario, an opportunity cost of an event is the cost of the preeminent alternative that we must waive in order to get it - meaning that it is the loss of potential gain from an alternative when another alternative is chosen. With that in mind, it is apparent that some knowledge in the microeconomic field is of much importance - even to the everyday man - as we make daily decisions. Thus, I will be looking at the exposure to opportunity cost that people need so they can, in turn, make more rational decisions. 
Previous research conducted by Frederick, Novemsky, Wang, Dhar, & Nowlis (2009) conclude that consumers often fail to develop calculated alternatives in order to consider the opportunity costs of a purchase. This is because consumers are more inclined to get straight to the point rather than stipulate other possibilities. For example, according to Frederick, Novemsky, Wang, Dhar, & Nowlis (2009), "when participants were permitted to ask questions about some opportunity (such as going to see a film in a foreign city) before deciding whether to do it, their inquiries pertained almost exclusively to the focal event rather than to possible alternatives (such as visiting a museum or attending a sporting event)." (p. 554). This goes to show that people are generally not very willing to explore possibilities other than the ones already directly ahead of them. Therefore, my claim is to give people the opportunity to make more rational decisions. 
I believe that my assertion is true as exposing people to opportunity cost should be a universal right. For example, according to Fischhoff, Slovic, and Lichtenstein (1978) and Tversky and Koehler (1994), "In studies of probability judgments, outcomes not explicitly represented are often ignored or underweighted." (p. 332). This just means that people, as a whole, are quite close-minded when it comes to making certain decisions and this is generally due to underlying information. The underlying information, in this case, would be opportunity cost. The counterargument is that people are social animals and so they just sometimes follow their instincts to make decisions. I would like to refute this by stating that, without any sort of prior knowledge, there is no way people are even able to follow their instincts to make decisions. This is purely because being able to make a decision would include weighing out the pros and cons of the matter at hand and so without any information regarding the particular matter, people are not able to weigh anything out. 
I also believe that my assertion is true because exposing people to opportunity cost is does not explicitly refer to financial situations and thus, would benefit everyone. Loewenstein and Prelec (1993) concluded that consumers selected differently when the alternative to dining out was described as "eating at home" in their research on intertemporal choice. This just means that even without bringing up the thought of numbers, people are still taking the fastest route to making a decision by selecting alternatives purely because of what they sound like rather than what they really are. A counterargument to my claim of giving people the opportunity to make more rational decisions would be that people are inevitably using the concept, even without actual knowledge of the term 'opportunity cost' - meaning that it is not necessary to learn the basics of an opportunity cost to be able to apply the concept in our daily lives. This may be true, but surely knowing what an opportunity cost is would broaden one's mind and make them think in a more intelligent manner when it comes to decision-making in the future. Opportunity cost is just as relevant in non-financial matters (whether one decides to study for an exam or decides to attend a house party would be an example of this) as it is in financial ones and would only be beneficial to those exposed to what it is. 
In conclusion, opportunity cost plays an important role in our daily lives, as it is a concept that is constantly being used when we make all sorts of decisions (whether it is a financial one, or not). Therefore, I truly believe that we should expose people to the likes of opportunity cost, as they would have more of an option as to what they are able to decide on in the future. There are no negative effects when it comes to being enlightened about a certain topic - especially when it is of such microeconomic value - which means that exposing people to what an opportunity cost is, would only benefit them in the long run. 
