P5d1_arp 
November 20, 2015 
How should we correctly deal with psychopaths in our society? 
	A lot of people think that our society should lock up all psychopaths, because psychopaths are considered extremely dangerous due to their biological lack of empathy, amazing skills of faking their emotions, or tendency of violent behavior. This is morally wrong. Although, in fact, our society has not yet found the absolute effective way to deal with them, due to the difficulty of the task and financial investment that our society would need in order to solve some aspect of the problem, there is still an effective method, that are currently practiced by many psychological institutes, to deal with psychopaths. The method is to handle psychopathic children as soon as possible. This method involves three steps: free mandatory psychological evaluation for children who are as young as 3 years old, intensive therapy treatment for children who have psychopathic tendencies, and social services of making sure children living under a healthy, loving conditions. 
	Mandatory psychological evaluation for children is the first step our society need to make in order to deal with psychopaths. We need to know where and what the problem is, therefore solving it more efficiently. Children from the ages 2 to 7 have not yet form logical judgement, but they do show emotional responses to their surroundings. When the children are as young as 3 years old, community should require parents to take their children to a local psychiatry to have a thorough psychological evaluation. From there, the psychiatrists can determine not only whether or not the children have psychopathic tendencies, but also whether they have other psychological problems such as autism, ADHD, anxieties, disorders, etc. Determining the right psychological state of the young children would give more time for the adults to know how to cope with it. 
Intensive therapy treatment is the second step in dealing with psychopath and also the most important step. Based on the psychological evaluation, the psychiatrists can figure out the most effective ways to improve the children's mentality, such as individual therapy, group therapy. Parents of these children would also be educated on how to handle and improve the children's psychological state. Psychopaths are usually at their worst, when they are all grown up, because they now have complete biological physicality, a more "intelligent" mind, and are impossibly able to be changed psychologically. Therefore, the younger the psychopathic person is, the more effective the treatments become. According to the article Inside the Mind of a Psychopath, written by Kiels and Buckholtz, "a new treatment for intractable juvenile offenders with psychopathic tendencies has had tremendous success. Michael Caldwell, a psychologist at the Mendota Juvenile Treatment Center in Madison, Wisconsin, uses intensive one-on-one therapy known as decompression aimed at ending the vicious cycle in which punishment for bad behaviors, which is in turn punished. Over time, the incarcerated youths in the Caldwell's program act out less frequently and become able to participate in standard rehabilitation services." This proves that psychopaths are not completely terrible people and needed to be disposed as much as possible like a lot of people assuming, because they can be effectively trained to be better under correct intensive treatment. 
	The third step of the method is to use social services to make sure the children living in a healthy, loving environment. This step is not only used for treatment young children with psychopathic tendencies, but it also is extremely necessary for all-age children, because that is the right the children deserve to have. By making sure that the children living under a decent environment, psychopathic children will more effectively improve their personality. Even if the psychopathic tendencies are genetics, these children will be less likely to act out of control, and less violent. There is nothing worse than the fact that a child with generic psychopathic traits lives with an abusive, unloving family, because the child would act out more dangerously. Children, psychopathic or not, are born to be loved, protected, forgiven, and taught to do right by their parents and community, so social services for children are extremely important and crucial. 
	With the method above, involving mandatory psychological treatment, intensive therapy treatment, and children social services, our society can efficiently handle psychopaths on a more advanced level. We no longer have the needs to catch and imprison psychopaths. We not only prevent future horrible crimes, but also save a significant amount from doing treatments instead of incarcerating all psychopaths. By using this method, we make our society become more acceptable and loving. 
Work Cited 
Kiels, K., & Buckholtz, J. (2010, October 1). Inside the Mind of a Psychopath. Retrieved November 10, 2015 
