Dec 4th 
Third Draft 
The Characters in the Watchman are respectable 
Watchmen is a comic book that was created by writer Alan Moore and artist Dave Gibbons. It was first published as a 12-issue miniseries by Detective Comics from September 1986 to October 1987, and it has also been remade as the film of the same name in 2009. The graphic novel Watchman is listed on Time Magazine's 100 best novels, and it is also the only comic book that achieves this honor and even the Hugo award. Actually, it could be called a landmark success of graphic novels. 
	However, though Watchman won a lot of honors, it is not as popular as other Detective Comics works like Batman among audiences. I think the reasons should be ascribed to its complex story-line and those unconventional characters. In specific, the protagonists in many of DC's works can be roughly defined as righteous, which we usually called "heroism;" while in the Watchman, most characters are wacky and unsatisfactory. The two factors even makes some readers disdain those characters and attribute this work into "anti-heroism." Nevertheless, there are still a group of people suppose that those characters are respectable because of their specialties and diathesis. I agree with them absolutely; in my opinion, those heroes in the story, no matter the disputed character "the Comedian" or the tragic character "Rorschach," their distingue qualities and sturdy volitions are strong enough for us to respect and learn from them. Therefore, in this paper, I will be arguing about what great qualities these characters have that make the readers respect them. 
	To approach this issue, learning the background of some characters will help us to understand them better. The two important characters in this story should be Rorschach and the Comedian. Rorschach's real name was Walter Kovacs, was a member of the vigilantes "masked heroes." He had an unfortunate childhood which was full of violence; his inferiority made him addicted into the powerful status "Rorschach," but he can also be defined as a great martyr who insisted his justice all the time. The Comedian was his colleague whose real name was Edward Blake, worked for the government after the "masked hero behavior" was banned. He seemed to be irritable and rude, but he also had outstanding discernment and wisdom. 
To begin with, an important quality both Blake and Kovacs have is that they are members of the vigilantes, the people who will to come forward to fight with the crimes. This also means they always combat for citizens voluntarily but not for personal motivation. On the other hand, their heroic behavior also makes me to associate some valiant people in reality. Recently, I heard a piece of news about a girl saved a drowning man from the river in front of her house. That girl was only 17 years old, and she was not strong enough to refloat an adult for sure; while as the time she saw there was a man who was drowning but nobody was willing to save him, she jumped into water without hesitation. In that girl's words, she just could not let the tragedy happen and ignore it. Equally, I think an important reason for the characters in Watchman to decide to be a "masked hero" is that they wanted to protect their society by replacing the impuissant polices to defeat the increasing criminals. Therefore, they should be respected by people because of their courage and royal qualities. 
However, there are also some people who argued that those vigilantes were just a group of powerful scoundrels, and they stood out just because they enjoyed the slaughter and reputation. These people also gave some instances like the Comedian showed a surge of enthusiasm in killing the captured soldiers during the Vietnam War, and Rorschach always used cruel method to torture his enemies. They thought that these examples could completely show that the "masked heroes" were actually wicked, or even have mental disorders. 
Therefore, to testify what those characters really look like, an essential factor we should learn about is the background of those characters. In fact, based on the personal interview I ever did with my Psychology class teacher assistant, <name>, it was truly that most of the vigilantes have mental disorders, such as the "Anti-social personality disorder" the Comedian suffered from, and the "Paranoid personality disorder" which Rorschach had. However, we also have evidence to both prove their disorders are the production of fighting with crimes and certify the brutal behaviors are not their real intentions. For example, according to the article "Rorschach Psychology Watchmen character" by Ambi Advaita, Rorschach was lenient to his enemy when he was a new vigilante. Nevertheless, his view to the society and crimes suddenly changed after he saw two kidnappers "had killed the girl in the most horrific and inhuman manner" (Advaita, 2008, p.2). That resulted in his mental to be instable, and makes him begin to create a powerful personality to help obliterating the crimes completely, which causes his mental disorder. I think this can also explain why he punishes the offenders in such a brutal way in the future; that's because he concludes it is only way to prevent them committed crimes again. Moreover, a more important factor we should pay attention to is the hero's own experience. As a matter of fact, it's uncreditable that a man who had a childhood like Kovacs's would grow into a man full of justice, because this kind of people experienced too much sorrow before, which could destroy their dream about the world easily. I have also read some similar cases that happened in the reality lately. For example, a man assisted an old woman who tripped in front of him; while that woman contrarily extorted him by accusing that man hurt her. After the case finished, that man would never assist strangers anymore because the reality broke his dream of the world. In the same way, it's really infrequent to find someone like Kovacs who kept enthusiasm to the society even though he was hurt by it before. Thus, I think the motivations of those "masked heroes" are actually sheer, without selfish desire, and their selfless and valiant behavior should be respected. 
	In conclusion, the characters in the Watchman can be came down to distingue because of their benefaction and disposition. Their heroic but also defective personalities in this story even highlight the major idea "anti-heroism", make the story to be more complicate, and also uncover the dark side of the world. 
Citation: 
"Watchmen Movie Book (Graphic Novel) Review and Information." Rorschach Psychology Watchmen Character. 16 Dec. <name>. Personal interview. 10 November. 2015. 
