Difference of Mathematical Learning Methods between 
Chinese and American High School Students 
April 9, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author Note 
Abstract 
These paper explored six published journals and article related to mathematical learning, and two interviews with two college students who were good at learning math in their high school. These paper's aim was to figure the difference of mathematical learning methods between Chinese and American high school students, and discussed the argument that American high school students' mathematical learning methods were better than that of Chinese high school students. 
Key Words: mathematical learning methods, high school, American, Chinese 
Difference of Mathematical Learning Methods between 
Chinese and American High School Students 
As an important implement widely used in commercial trade and scientific research, mathematics was undoubtedly one of the most important subjects in high school. To have a good command of mathematics, high school students should develop approximate ways to help them learn mathematics. These ways were also called mathematical learning methods, which could be doing a lot of exercises or spending excessive time studying math. In recent years, more and more Chinese high school students chose to study abroad in America to finish their high school education. These international high school students found that the mathematical learning methods that they developed in China were different from the methods used by American high school students. Many international high school students from China performed well in math exams so that they thought Chinese high school students' mathematical learning methods were better than that of American high school students. Through conducting several interviews and reading several articles related to comparative studies between American and Chinese students, I thought that American high school students' mathematical learning methods were better than that of Chinese high school students. 
"I found that Chinese high school students were not creative." One of my interviewees, <name>, said to me when I interviewed him. In China, high school students were assigned by their teachers to do a lot of similarly mathematical exercises (Fuligni and Stevenson, 1995, p.834). Doing these exercises aimed to develop students' skills of finding answers of mathematical exercises and help students respond to mathematical exercises quickly. However, this kind of practice would restrict students' creativity. Students could only deal with same kinds of exercises that they met before. They could not remain flexible when they were required to apply mathematics to solve problems in other areas such as physics (Wang and Lin, 2005, p.8). Furthermore, Chinese high school students tended to obey the instruction of their teachers and parents, which exacerbated their situation of losing creativities (Stevenson and Chen, 1995, p.1123-1124). "I always tried to found several approaches to solve same exercises with my classmates." <name> said to me when he introduced his favorite mathematical learning method. This kind of learning method could cultivate students' creativity because students needed to use their wits to create solution instead of copying solution. Many American high school students also used the same strategies when studying new mathematical knowledge. Therefore, American high school students' mathematical learning methods could cultivate creativity. 
However, Cohen (1985) argued that Chinese high school students always performed better than American high school students in math exams. Dillon (2010) supported that Chinese high school students proved their better mathematical learning methods by getting high scores in international math test. But, high scores did not mean that students had a good command of mathematical knowledge because Chinese high school students were trained to get high scores in any tests. Wang and Lin (2005) pointed out that Chinese high school students had high expectation of scores that they got in the math exams. In China, if high school students wanted to be admitted into good university, they were expected to receive high scores in college entrance examination (CEE). Mathematics score made up a large part of total score of CEE so that students always focused on the score instead of the knowledge that they learned. On the other hand, parents of Chinese high school students always set high standards in math to their children and parents would be angry if their children's math scores fell (Hess, Chang and Mcdevitt, 1987, p.185-186). Due to these factors, it was impossible for Chinese high school students to get low scores in any math exams. What they paid was the understanding of the mathematical knowledge that they learned. By comparison, American high school students did not focus too much on the scores that they got in math exams. What grabbed their attention was how to get profound understanding of the knowledge that they learned. "I always tried to prove the mathematical theories to help me get better understanding to the knowledge that I learned." Another interviewees, <name>, said to me in the interview. 
Mathematics was important for high school students to learn. Approximate mathematical learning methods could help students learn math well. American high school students' mathematical learning methods focused on cultivating students' creativity and helping students get profound understanding to mathematical knowledge that they learned. Chinese high school students' mathematical learning methods focused on training students the skills of solving similar mathematical exercises and helping students respond to exercises rapidly. Though Chinese high school students could get extremely high scores in math exams, Chinese high school students had a smattering of the mathematical knowledge that they learned and their creativities were restricted. Therefore, American high school students' mathematical learning methods were better. 
