Argumentative Essay Draft1 
11/24/2015 
Argumentative Essay 
INTRO Thesis Statement There was no actual fusion of sacred music and secular music in the Middle Ages 
Opposition paragraph: 
	Here are three reasons why I used to believe there was a fusion of sacred music and secular music in the Middle Ages. Firstly, polyphony (an important texture in Western music consisting of two or more simultaneous lines of independent melody) started in sacred music, but developed and formed in secular music. So polyphony is a combination, or fusion, because both sacred music and secular music contributed to it. Secondly, priests-composers, composing sacred music for their work, faced secular music in their daily lives after work, and secular music at that time was so welcomed that the priests could hardly refuse the secular elements in their composing of sacred music. This sacred-secular conflict the priests faced on their work and after work also caused into a fusion of sacred music and secular music in the Middle Ages. Thirdly, Medieval Motet which combines elements from both sacred music and secular music is a perfect example of fusion. Its topic is always about love and it is sung in vernacular language, however, by using the polyphony technique, it has religious component which is the use of phrases from Gregorian chant as its cantus-firmus (a pre-existing melody forming the basis of a polyphonic composition). 
Support paragraphs 1: 
	In Professor Sudano's opinion, there was no sacred-secular fusion in Western music history and polyphony is a kind of shared attributes. Because sacred music and secular music are two big "rivers" running parallel to each other, they never join together. They are conflicting, and they also have shared attributes such as notation and rhythm, just like the "soil" between the rivers. Polyphony is one kind of these shared attributes. It is true that both sacred music and secular music contributed to the development of polyphony, but it is fogging the issue to say polyphony is a fusion of sacred music and secular music. Polyphony is only a texture used in both sacred music and secular music, it neither belonged to sacred music nor belonged to secular music, so it could not be a fusion of sacred music and secular music in the Middle Ages. 
Support paragraphs 2:	 
	Sacred music and secular music influenced each other because of their creators, priest composers and secular musicians. Maybe a priest heard something when he was drinking beers on Saturday night, and on Sunday morning, he might want to some of those techniques in his composing of Mass. Maybe someone heard something sung in church on Sunday morning, and on Saturday night, he might want to try some of those phrases of melodies in his garage band. But most of time, even in most parts of the Middle Ages, according to <name>, "the church is church", and "drinking beers on Saturday night is drinking beers on Saturday night". Sacred music and secular music influenced each other in the Middle Ages, but they never fused into one "river". 
Support paragraphs 3: 
	<name> agreed with me that Medieval Motet could be an example of "fusion", but this example is only an exception. It was true that sacred music and secular music fused into Medieval Motet in the Middle Ages, however, what happened to the sacred and secular world then? They stopped doing like that. <name> pointed out that, Medieval Motet was not a common phenomenon, to support his idea, he compared the numbers of recorded Medieval Motet with the secular music and sacred music. The number of motets recorded is even far less than that of secular music. Although we don't know how many pieces of sacred and secular music were preserved, hardly any secular music were preserved compared with sacred music. This is because sacred music was preserved for church services, while secular music, "the music people listened to when they are drinking beers", had no need to be preserved. Today people have even less motet than secular music. Comparing with the two big rivers of sacred music and secular music, Medieval Motet was only a little tiny point, where the fusion belonged to. <name> showed me "tiny" using his fingers. In <name>'s idea, there was a fusion, a coming together, but that was more accidental than anything else. This is a kind of composition fallacy that I think the general sacred music and secular music once fused in the Middle Ages just because the part of Medieval Motet could be an example of "fusion". 
Conclusion: 
