Draft#1 
November 18, 2015 
Argumentative 
	There have been many issues and arguments about the injury problems for football players. All the other sports players such as basketball, soccer, baseball have injuries too, but why is football injuries more serious than other sports' injuries? It's because American football tend to have frequent head injuries. American football has significantly more head injuries than any other sports. This is because of the way the game of football is played. The characteristic of rule of the football tend to let the players be a little too aggressive. There is a debate about whether the football association should keep the rules the way it is or change a little. Also what else can the football association do to keep the players from getting injured frequently? The association need to go over what the issue is, what they have done in the past to make this situation better, and what they can do in the future to make the situation better. 
	The issue about American football today is that way too many players are getting hurt in all levels: high school, college, and professional. The problem about this is that a lot of those injuries are serious because they tend to be head injuries. More than 60 percent of the high school and college football players say that they have suffered from concussion injury at least once in their football career. Also, it is scientifically proven that most formal NFL players suffer from many brain diseases after they retire; they tend to have serious diseases such as concussion, ALS (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and CTE (Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy). These brain diseases are causing harm to football players' health. 
	The NFL (National Football League) and NCAA (The National Collegiate Athletic Association) have been trying hard to prevent injuries by adding rules, but it has not been a big help. They changed some rules to penalize player who lower his head to tackle another player; this is called "targeting" which does big damage to players' brains. However, according to NFL, the number of injuries actually has risen in the past years. Helmet companies such as Riddell, Schutt, and Xenith are trying hard to improve their protection technology to protect the players from getting injured. Simbex LLC, the company which invented Head Impact Telemetry System, and Riddell worked together to see the impacts on the helmets. However, it's hard to come up with a certain result because there are way too many scenarios how players get hit. 
	As now, the football association is not really doing much to protect the players. It says that there isn't enough scientific research that will help protect the players at this point. However, I believe the association definitely can find an alternative solution to protect players. I believe the associations don't want to lose profit from changing the rules. All that the association is doing right now is fining players that play dangerously. This will not solve anything because NFL players already make a lot of money so they do not have to worry too much about the fines; this will lead the aggressive players to keep on playing aggressively. The football association needs to change up the rules in order to truly protect the players from getting injured. 
	In conclusion, the football association looks like they are trying hard to protect the players from getting injured, but not hard enough. They made some adjustments to the rules, but they aren't really helpful in reality. Fining the players for playing too aggressively will have a significant change. The association isn't changing the rule because it thinks that it will lose profit if they change the rules; changing the rules will lead to less entertainment and less entertainment will lead to less fans. If the association really cares about the players' health, they need to make more adjustments to the rules that will actually be helpful to their health. 
