4/10/2016 
Learning an artistic skill as a child 
	Nowadays, more and more children begin learning art besides academic thing they learn at school. Some children learning an art feel the art is interesting and are satisfied because they like what they are learning. Others, However, feel they are being tortured to learn something they are not into at all. For example, some boys are forced by their parents to learn dance due to their parents' expectation. The common situation that more and more children, whether or not volunteers to learn at least one kind of art, are learning specialties raises a question that whether or not children should learn at least one kind of art while in their childhood. As a person who have learned dance for 4 years, I believe that a child who is interested in one art should learn that art. I highly recommend kids to learn a specialty when they are 4 years old. There are several reasons bellow. 
	First, I want to point out that learning an art does benefit children because art makes kids smarter. I found a report "Why Art makes Kids Smarter" (2014) about why children should learn at least one kind of art in their childhood, which says that children who spend time performing music or dance gain a whole set of creative and analytical skills. Children learning to play music or to dance get familiar with how to create new songs by themselves and how to find a more comfortable way to dance. These analytical and creative skills can be used for their academic curriculum and their test- prep. And children who are learning artistic skills tend to find a faster and efficient way to prepare test, also, some of them may find more than one way to solve a math problem. These analytical and creative skills can disappear quickly as soon as kids stop focusing on art and instead to do bunches of memorization, to follow directions of instructors. 
	Another benefit for children who are focusing on art is that they learned corporation. Corporation is very important for our society and human beings would create an unbelievable energy when they work together and corporation can be learn by 4 years old children. The dance professor, Dr. <name> of Purdue University I interviewed, said "to train kids' skill of corporation, a dance teacher may let 4 years old children hold each others hand to dance or have them hold a scarf between them so that they learned to dance each other with holding a scarf, which are two interesting and efficient ways to make children realize corporation. And for singing, students may learn to sing one song together by singing different sentences of that song and sometimes sing one sentence together." 
	Finally, Professor <name> mentions "learning an art can definitely develop a kid's quality of persistence, which is also one of important qualities for a person to possess if he/she wants to be successful in future." She adds "If a kid likes dancing, for instance, he/ she may be satisfied and happy at first time standing in dancing classroom. After a few weeks, however, he/ she may feel boring or fear to dance due to painful stretch and wants to give up. And at this time, if parents encourage their kids to keep dancing and told them that giving up is not the thing which he/she is supposed to do. And if this child keeps his/her parents' advice in mind and be persistent, then not only he/she learned an artistic skill, he/she also learned to be a persistent person." 
	Some people would argue that kids would under a lot of pressure if they learn a new thing besides learning academic curriculum at school. I would say that I understand this point of view. However, I do not think so. If this child does like the art he/she is learning and has a good management of time for himself/herself, then he/she would not feel tired or pressure. Furthermore, if this child does feel physically tired, he/she can reduce frequency of art class to once a week or once two weeks. 
	Others may say that learning an artistic skill would spend time of parents. Since a lot of parents need to work and sometimes go on duty, which means they do not have time to drive their children to lessons. I can see this concern and my suggestion is that parents could teach children how to go to classes by themselves. If parents worry about their kids' safety. They can look for art classes near their home. 
	Finally, there is no doubt that art do benefit children. I do suggest kids learn at least one artistic skill in their childhood, under the premise that kids love what they will learn or they are learning due to the reason that kids will feel under pressure both physically and psychologically and will cause opposite result if they are not into art. 
Reference 
Kalish,N,. (2014). Why Art Makes Kids Smarter. PARENTING. 
