Every Cloud Has a Silver Lining 
Paper 5 Draft 3 
April 27, 2015 
	After the Second World War, many professionals had to leave their country due to disasters that the conflict generated in their hometown and even their own homes. Out of all these people that suffered during the war, there is a group, the Jewish professionals, that went through an even worse tragedy, the Holocaust. During the Holocaust many Jews were forced to leave their houses and go to concentration camps where many of them starved to death or were poisoned by gas in the gas chambers. But some people were able to leave those countries that turned their back on them, such as my grandparents, who left Romania to go to Venezuela and start a new life where they could develop their former career which they were prohibited to do in a period of their lifetime. Just like my grandparents, they were many Jewish professionals that fled the old continent to start a new life in a different place, forming a new kind of diaspora. All these new Jewish immigrants greatly contributed to the development of their novel country with the skills they brought from their earlier nations and learned from their experiences in the Second World War. 
	According to Sheining & Barr (1997), many Jewish immigrants that went to Latin America were extremely helpful for the nation's development, contributing on the medical, educational and even economical field. Many Jews decided to go to Latin America due to the strict regulations existing to enter the United States and Canada. With the skills the Jews brought to their nations, they were able to help the country rise up and succeed in creating a kind of liberty that they were once taken away of. Many medics with top-notch degrees helped on the health system of the country, reducing the newborn mortality rate and aiding in rare diseases that were new to the continent but they knew how to treat from their European University knowledge. The professors quickly attained higher positions in the education system as they got more proficient with their knew language, they taught the new generations with a skill that only big European universities could give them at that time on top of all the experience they attained after being in the concentration camps. In the economical field there is a notable person that is important to point out, <name> , a survivor who fled the war and later became the Senior Research Fellow at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research in the United States. Many other economists also served for the government as well as private companies and helped them gain a vast amount of money, which they could later invest in companies inside the country in order to make the nation develop. 
	Jews also helped on other aspects that are not so related to academia in their new countries. It is important to state that not all of the Jews that arrived to different countries had a degree of some kind and therefore, they worked in different aspects that helped the nation grow. These people practiced different non-conventional jobs that also helped the country develop and triumph in non-academic aspects (Ruggiero, 2005). This portion of the Jews had experience in working on the field, and after roaming around in the big cities in their country without anything to work on, many of them decided to go to the fields of the country or get a small job in order to work for the farms, but after working in this area, they had a child who later grew to become a notable person in the development of a country. A great example to further explain this is L. Rafael Reif, the current president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose parents were Jewish immigrants that arrived to Venezuela escaping from the Holocaust and after having several small jobs such as photographers, they rose a child who now is one of the most important scholars in the world. 
	Another important aspect to point out is the immigrants' help to build the young country of Israel. Many of the Jews that went to Israel at the time of its independence went without having the knowledge of what would happen to them after arriving there. Many of the Jews decided to go to a Kibbutzim, a settlement where they lived in a community and worked on agricultural activities (Rosner, 1993). These Kibbutzim gradually grew in production and income around the biggest cities in Israel and made the base of the economy of the State of Israel as we know today. Currently, there are Kibbutzim that work on many aspects, varying from agriculture, plastic production and even high tech devices and account for about 40% of Israel's annual revenue. This means that the founding fathers' effort like David Ben Gurion's was enough to make a small nation succeed despite all the possible complications in a desert environment. 
	As we can see, all the survivor's determination to rise up in life after suffering from the cruel massacres of the Holocaust was worth it. Many countries gave them the opportunity to develop the careers they once had and the Nazis prohibited them to practice and then made the benefits of the decision they took. All the Jews that immigrated to new countries invested on it with their professional or practical skills that helped the nation develop afterwards thanks to all the productive work they practiced on the land, people or economy. The Jewish immigrant's spirit of survival, moral principles, knowledge and skills, work dedication and desire to excel greatly contributed to the development of their novel country. 
