How Mobile Phones Influence Sleep
	Some people think the mobile phone does not influence people's sleep or not that much, and they always put the cell phone under their pillows or on the bed when they fall asleep. As far as I worked in the English 106I course project "How Mobile Phones Influence Sleep", I absolutely consider using the mobile phone before sleeping influence people's sleep negatively. According to Thom e S, H renstam A, & Hagberg M, (2011), Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults--a prospective cohort study, there is an exact link between mobile phone and quality of sleep from young adults, and mobile phones affect young adults' sleep in a negative way.
	Some people might argue that the size of mobile phones are much smaller compared to other electronic devices, how could they influence people's sleep. Based on the personal interview with Doctor <name> (majored in the medical technology at <place> University, got a master's degree, the chief physician in Neurology Department), firstly, the blue light from the screen of the phone could prohibit the content of the hormone melatonin. The hormone melatonin is a chemical tryptamine which could be increased by people's sleeping and help people fall asleep in an efficient way. Secondly, there is too much information (words, pictures, and other thoughts) input by using the mobile phone, and this information will stimulate in people's brain which is an adverse reaction to sleep well. Thirdly, using the mobile phone before sleeping could form a poorly conditioned reflex with people's sleeping habit and bed.
	Some of us probably will say they feel they do have deep sleep even though they use mobile phones before sleeping, and there are no influences to their bodies caused by the mobile phone. Based on my research, there are some symptoms have already appeared related to this kind of behavior. Fossum I N, Nordnes L T, Storemark S S, Bjorvatn B, & Pallesen S, (2014), argue that firstly, using mobile phones to text, surf, and play before going to the bed could be linked with the relatively late chronotype, which means the delay of biological clock. Secondly, people who have access to the mobile phone will not be energetic in the morning, compared with the people who limits to use the mobile phone. Thirdly, the phase delay of circadian rhythm could be attracted if using the mobile phone excessively before going to sleep. It is not hard to see that using the mobile phone before falling asleep could cause the relatively late chronotype, and if people who use the mobile phone excessively, they will not be energetic on the morning and also may have the phase delay of circadian rhythm, which related to our sleep and caused a negative way in quality of sleep apparently.
	Someone who has the high addiction level of the mobile phone might chuckle because they think the people who have the low addiction level of the mobile phone suffers the same results, which is poor qualitative sleep, as theirs'. I can clearly tell these people they are wrong. There is a detailed research, Sah n S, Ozdemir K, Unsal A, & Temiz N, (2013) focuses on the relationship between the addiction level of the mobile phone and University students' quality of sleep, and states the people who have the higher addiction level of the mobile phone, will have worsened sleep quality. In the research, they evaluate the addiction level of the mobile phone with the Problematic Mobile Phone Use Scale, and evaluate the sleep quality with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, which consists of open-ended question and multiple-choice questions (answer as very good, fairly good, fairly bad, or very bad). The 0 to 3 points will be given based on each question, and the higher scores denote the poorer quality of sleep. The result of the research shows people who have the higher addiction level of the mobile phone, will have worsened sleep quality.
	In conclusion, I would like to tell people that the mobile phone could influence sleep quality, cause some health symptoms, and also the addiction level of the phone has correlation with sleep quality. Furthermore, there are many people noticed that the bad side of the mobile phone caused on their sleep and they did not use their mobile phone before sleeping, in order to have sleep with the good quality. From my perspective, using the mobile phone before sleeping is bad for your sleep.
Citation
1. Thom e, S., H renstam, A., & Hagberg, M. (2011). Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults-a prospective cohort study. BMC public health, 11(1), 1.
2. Docto <name> (personal communication, March 7, 2016).
3. Thom e, S., H renstam, A., & Hagberg, M. (2011). Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults-a prospective cohort study. BMC public health, 11(1), 1.
4. Thom e, S., H renstam, A., & Hagberg, M. (2011). Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults-a prospective cohort study. BMC public health, 11(1), 1.
2
