P5D1 
Apr. 10 2016 
Do Electric Devices Really Help Educatees Study? 
Nowadays, technology has been developing so fast that people cannot avoid utilizing these electric devices, and these technological products are also a preference of students when they study in universities. They like to stare at their phones, computers and i Pads in classes because they think those tools can help them study better. However, on the other side, some professors disagree with this point because they do think these advanced tools are distractions for students. Thus, there is a question: do electric devices really help educatees study better? In my opinion, these technological tools do help students study more efficiently if class audiences know how to employ them correctly and efficiently. 
Firstly, these electric devices can provide plant of useful background information to class audiences when they are listening to lectures which they are not familiar with. For instance, when students are listening to a lecture about a period history of another foreign country, there will be many terms and background information that they may not know, and these terms and information will be obstacles for class audiences to learn about. However, they can search the information on the Internet in order to help themselves to understand the professional terms and the topic which they are not familiar with. By doing this, class audiences will follow their professor easily and tightly in class. 
Furthermore, class audiences can talk about their own ideas quietly by using advanced tools. In some classes, such as sociology, literature and psychology, which encourage educatees to exchange their own opinions by communicating with each other, class audiences can talk quietly in an online community. For example, there is an app called Hotseat, which are used by students in sociology courses of Purdue University. By employing this app, class audiences have chances to express their ideas can come up with some questions, and then teaching assistants will help them solve the problems by typing rather than speaking out, so professors' teaching will not be disturbed by the communications. 
Moreover, regarding professors, advanced products are also helpful for them to teach. For example, most universities require their educatees to use Blackboard. In this website, some of students' assignments and other tasks will be graded automatically which can help educators save time to prepare their lecture content. Also, professors can offer assistances to students in their class who do not have good academic performances in time by keeping track on their students' performances on that website. Thus, educators can teach efficiently. 
However, some people think electric devices are distractions for educatees in class because they will text to their friends, play video games rather than focus on the lecture. This is true, and things like that will happen sometimes. But professors can easily avoid those things happening by making lectures more interesting. The reason why some students choose to entertain on their technological products instead of listening to the teacher is not that they do not want to study. It is just because when they listen to the professor, they feel boring, so it is hard for them to focus on the lecture. In my opinion, if professors can make their lectures more interesting and make some interactions with students in class, most students will prefer to pay attention to the lectures. 
Finally, another opinion of these tools' disadvantages is about cheating. Some people may say educatees can cheat easily when they are utilizing those electric products in means of texting with other ones or searching on the Internet. I agree with this point that some students use those products to cheat. However, it is also easy to avoid cheating happening. Educators need to make strict rules in the classrooms and tell listeners to behave themselves. When students are doing in class quizzes, professors can ask teaching assistants to walk around in classrooms to invigilate. What's more, professors can provide questions with answers in different orders for educatees. 
In conclusion, those technological products can help educatees study under high efficiency because they can employ electric devices to get countless resources and exchange their opinions in class, and educators can teach their students efficiently by utilizing the tools. Although there are some disadvantages, it is not hard to deal with those problems. In my opinion, technological products have more advantages than disadvantages, and they do help students have a higher study efficiency. Therefore, professors need to encourage class audiences to use technological products in class, and lead them to use them appropriately. 
