Argumentative Essay 
Although Korean students achieve tremendous success in many other fields of study, there are darks sides of these successes that only they know. Most of students in Korea are suffering from Korean education. Korean mothers encourage their children to stay up late and study, and students come back home at 2 am after studying at cram school. According to Asian Times 51% of the reason why they committee suicides is because of the failure of academic achievement and stress from studies. I believe that Korean students are getting too much pressures from the competitive environments and their mothers' excessive expectations. I suggest that it is necessary to change including evaluating other fields and changing mothers' opinions. 
I believe Korean students are getting too much stress from the competitive environments made by Korean education system which only focuses on academic success of students. Most of the students hope to go to top colleges in Korea because getting a job after they graduate is directly related to going to top universities. The problem is that the only way the students can go to top colleges is being successful academically by getting good grades. Students who are not academically successful because they are interested in other fields of study such as music, art or sports have no chance to go to good colleges. So, all students want to be successful academically even though the number of students who can go to top colleges is limited. Due to this condition, all students see each other as their competitors and they study endlessly hoping to get higher grades than others. They are always in pressure that they have to do better than others. Also, as students see others as their competitors, the atmosphere in the school is very unfriendly. So, students get too much stress because of this competitive environment that Korean education created. Moreover, most of the students keep studying after school by going to cram schools. They study in cram schools until midnight and finally sleep at 2 a.m. Then, they will wake up in the morning to study at school. It is impossible to not get a stress from this routine. To fix this problem, the government should make more universities and jobs related to other fields of study such as art, music or sports in order to expand the areas of study. Enlarging the realms of study will encourage students to study other fields and the competitiveness will drop. Then students will no longer get a stress from these competitive environments. 
The second reason that I believe Korean students are getting too much pressure is because students are under pressure of study even at home where they should feel most comfortable. Students are uncomfortable at home because of their mothers. Se Woong Koo from New York Times described Korean mothers as "Tiger mothers" because they always nitpick their children to study only which gives them a lot of stresses. Korean mothers are too obsessed with their children's academic successes because most of them believe that the only way their children can be successful is from academic achievements. They put their children in cram schools and make them to study all day. As Korean mothers give stresses to their children at home, these students do not have any places to have a rest and get rid of the stresses they got from schools and cram schools. To fix this problem, it would be good to make more dramas that encourages other fields of study such as music, art or sports. It might sound crazy but there was actually a case similar to this. There was a drama called "Beethoven Virus" that showed people enjoying playing musical instruments, overcoming their limits, and changing their personalities by making an orchestra and playing music together. It also showed that people can be successful by playing musical instruments. This drama inspired lots of Korean parents to allow their children to play musical instruments. 
People may say it is not necessary to change this competitiveness as Koreans were able to have the tremendous achievements due to human power. They might be right; however, by encouraging the students to practice the other fields such as art, sports and music, and not just focusing on academic success to have more human power, there will be different kinds of achievements that might favor us more than just an economical achievement. 
In conclusion, I believe that Korean students feel stressed from academically emulous environments and "Tiger mothers" at home. My suggestions to solve this problem are enlarging the realms of study and expanding the types of job, and persuading "Tiger mothers" with dramas. 
