First Draft 
November 18, 2015 
Food in dining court: the reason of obesity? 
An old Chinese saying, "Hunger breeds discontentment", perfectly illustrates the importance of food-only when people are not hungry can they live, study and work well. However, people nowadays are focusing on something beyond-they are controlling their health condition and are preferring healthy diet. During the time when I was having my meal in the dining court, I found that some people were apparently suffered from obesity. Then a question came into my mind: does the food in the dining court lead to the obesity? Healthy food contains two aspects. First, it should be fresh and clean. Dirty or decomposed food will definitely do harm to our health. Second, it should be healthy to eat. After doing a set of research, I am holding the view that the dining court in Purdue serves healthy food. 
The sources of food ingredients are reliable. According to Lisa Garcia, the supervisor of Ford dining court who has been working there for seven years, the majority of frozen meat, bread and milk come from food stores at Purdue, Piazza Produce and Dean's. In order to keep the food ingredients fresh and clean, all fruit and vegetables are local food. Some of them even come from the student farm at Purdue. 
The menu is designed by trained people. The dining court hires chef and system dining court manager to build the menus. They know that people nowadays are more health conscious and they designed healthy menus. For adults, a healthy diet should contain food, vegetables, legumes, nuts and whole grains. (WHO, 2015). Vegetables and fruits are adequate. Bananas, apples and oranges are served in the dining court every day. Lettuce, spinach, carrots and green beans can be found and people can make their own vegetable salad in the dining court. Rice and bread are also unlimited. In a word, the dining court serves several kinds of food that are supposed to be in a healthy diet. If you look at the everyday menu, you will discover that these healthy food are the majority. 
However, some people might disagree with my opinion. Indeed, the dining court also serve fries, pulled pork slider and other fried food. But they are not the main reason that lead to obesity at Purdue. First, what you choose to eat does matter. The dining court offers buffet, which means that no one is forcing you to eat unhealthy food. One example is the beverage. According to Lisa Garcia, even though there are more than ten types of soft beverages being offered in the dining court, the most popular drink is the water. Students do know that drinking water is much healthier. People should learn how to contain the energy they intake every day. According to the suggestion by WHO, adults should intake less than 10% of total energy from free sugars and approximately 2000 calories per day. (WHO, 2015) The dining court does a great job in guiding people to eat healthier. All the calories content for food are labeled. Third, unhealthy food is not the only reason of obesity. Western societies display an increased tendency toward sedentary lifestyle. (Vilchis-Gil, 2015, p.2). Not taking enough exercises is also the reason of obesity. 
In conclusion, the dining court at Purdue serves enough healthy food. Although it also provides some unhealthy food, people should choose to eat. Only good eating habits and enough exercises can keep you away from obesity. 
Reference 
Yu Z, Han S, Chu J, Xu Z, Zhu C, et al. (2012) Trends in Overweight and Obesity among Children and Adolescents in China from 1981 to 2010: A Meta Analysis. PLo S ONE 7(12): e51949. doi:10.1371/journal.pone. 0051949 
WHO. (2015, September). Healthy Diet. Retrieved November 18, 2015 from http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs394/en/ 
