Professional Skill is a Bigger Factor for Engineering Majoring Students
Finding a job after graduation is some international engineering majoring students' ultimate dream. However, because of the recent financial recession and international student boom in the US (Jordan, 2015), foreign students in engineering may find it harder to get a decent offer after graduation. Many international students who cannot find a job may get confused whether professional skills or language proficiency is a bigger factor when recruiters decide whom to hire. After having the interviews with two experts and doing the literature review, I would argue that professional skill is a bigger factor for engineering majoring students in the job market than language fluency.
First and foremost, professional expertise is the most important quality required for an engineer to solve demanding engineering-related problems in industry. Professional expertise here refers to the knowledge related to the specific engineering field. <name> a career counselor in the Purdue CCO office once argued that the company always wanted to hire students to solve engineering problems so that the company could do business (personal communication, February 22, 2016). From <name> words, we can undoubtedly tell that when the employers consider an engineering majoring student for a position, they need to assess the satisfactory-level of the student's technical knowledge required to perform the role. There are thousands of job positions posted on Purdue CCO website and most of the engineering-related job information may use several lines or pages to describe the specific knowledge required for the positions; however, it is hard to find a job position using more than three lines for the language fluency requirement. The difference between the professional expertise and language fluency requirement in the job postings can vividly demonstrates that expertise is the most important factor for an engineer to solve problems.
Secondly, excellent professional skills can be a critical factor to help international students find a job, but fluent language skill cannot be that crucial factor. Professional skills are how the student can express their knowledge related to certain project. Markes (2006) made a review and laid some emphasis on the skills required by engineering and manufacturing employers. For example, for computer science students, the professional skills can be the skills of coding, while for mechanical engineering students, the professional skills can be the ability of creating standard drawing draft. No doubt that if an international student wants to beat an American student in the job market, they have to have a better expertise because the American student, as a native speaker, has the advantage of language skills. Since international students inevitably have the short slap of language fluency, what they can convince the employers is that they have sufficient professional skills and can provide effective contribution for demanding jobs. There are many articles on introducing the international students' story of success. Koeppel (2005) revealed the story of Shern Frederick in the New York Times. Shern was an international student from Trinidad and Tobago who successfully received his offer from an energy and utility company. The key to Shern's success is his excellent research experiences and specialized skills. From Koeppel's article, a conclusion can be drawn that advanced professional skills or expertise can help the international students stand out however language proficiency may not be the case.
For engineering majoring students, mastering basic English communication skill is more than enough because engineers often communicate with each other in computer programming languages or computer aid design (CAD) models rather than English reports. Moreover, even the students' language skill is not as strong, it can still be made up via other methods. Nathan Irvin, a product specialist and recruiter from company Landis+Gyr maintained that there was an international engineer in his company whose oral and written English was not very strong (personal communication, February 20, 2016). However, this engineer's work could also be perfectly accomplished via email or computer codes. The weakness of the language skills can be made up in other methods, but the weakness of expertise or creativity cannot be compensated by other ways. For a student majoring in computer sciences, computer codes are the "languages" as medium for information (Yoon, 2016). If the student cannot write the standard codes or understand other people's code, he would be unable to communicate with other programmers. It also works for the mechanical engineering student, if he or she cannot draw or read the CAD draft model with correct dimensions, he is very likely to lack the opportunity for getting a job no matter how good his or her English is. But not only for computer science and mechanical engineering students, all engineering students have their only "language" for communication. If the student has the weakness in these professional languages, this drawback cannot be made up easily.
Admittedly, we cannot deny that the language barrier of international students as engineers may cause issues and losses for the companies if they do not have the professional vocabulary or cannot understand his colleagues' words. However, this situation can be avoided if the companies can hold the training for international employees. It is easy to imagine that international students can easily understand and use the professional words if exposed every day in the professional atmosphere.
In a nutshell, I would emphasize that professional skills have more weight when the recruiters decide whom to hire based on the above analysis. It is not to say that English is unimportant but that English is the basic communication skill for engineering majoring students however professional skills are the crucial factors that will decide whether the international students will be hired.
Reference:
Career Services (n.d.). Job-Search Guide for International Students. Miami University. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://miamioh.edu/student-life/career-services/converted/international.html
Jordan, M. (2015, March 24). International Students Stream Into U.S. Colleges. The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from http://www.wsj.com/articles/international-students-stream-into-u-s-colleges-1427248801
Koeppel, D. (2005, January 16). U.S. Jobs Becoming Scarcer for Students From Abroad. The New York Times. Retrieved March 31, 2016 from http://www.nytimes.com/2005/01/16/jobs/us-jobs-becoming-scarcer-for-students-from-abroad.html
Markes, I. (2006). A review of literature on employability skill needs in engineering. European Journal of Engineering Education, 31(6), 637-650.
Yoon, I., Kim, J., & Lee, W. (2016). The analysis and application of an educational programming language (RUR-PLE) for a pre-introductory computer science course. Cluster Computing, 19(1), 529-546.
