Argumentative Essay 
11/24/2015 
An Argument for Genetically Modified Foods 
Genetically modified (GM) food should not be scared of and avoided, because of the benefits they bring to the society and the lack of any scientific evidence that can prove any health dangers and disorders they brings to plants, animals, and humans. 
There are multiple reasons why people oppose to genetically modified foods. One of the major concerns about GM foods right now is the possibility that their genes can escape from the GM crops into other organisms, which is known as horizontal gene transfer. In other word, DNA from GM crops can be transferred into humans who eat them. In addition, they are also accused of causing cancers and a variety of health problems such as infertility, organ damage, immune problems, accelerated aging and gastrointestinal system disorders. Another claim that the opposition side of GM crops makes is that these crops contribute to environmental damages by contaminating the natural gene pool, increasing herbicide use, reducing biodiversity, polluting water resources and so on. 
These claims are actually, for the most part, inaccurate and not proven. First, multiple scientific studies have suggested that the rate of horizontal gene transfer from plants to animals, bacteria and human is very low. A 2004 study in the journal Nature Biotechnology was one major study that looked at this issue. Researchers in this study examined the waste collected from seven volunteers whose intestines had been removed for medical reasons to look for any signs of Roundup Ready transgene. They did find a small amount of transgene in the bowel microbes of three volunteers, but because the gene transfer rate did not change or increase after the volunteers ate transgenic soy, it was concluded that gene transfer did not happen during experimental period. In addition, the transgene did not even survive passage in subjects whose intestines were fully intact. The results of this experiment indicated that "horizontal gene transfer after eating GM crops might be feasible at low rates in certain medically compromised people, [but] it would be quite rare in most consumers" (Palmer 2013). There are several other studies and papers that also have the same conclusion as this 2004 study such as a 2008 paper in the journal Environmental Biosafety Research, which concluded that potential danger associated with horizontal gene transfer of GMOs is "negligible" (Palmer 2013), and a 2012 report on animal feeding studies in the journal Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition, which found that there is no evidence that DNA from diet can be integrated into the genome of a bacterium in the gut, of an animal or human. 
Second, claims against GMOs due to their bad impacts on human's health and the environment are also unsound, and a great example of a scientific study that has proved otherwise is a 2013 published article in a peer-reviewed and highly regarded journal called Critical Review of Biotechnology. In this article, An overview of the last 10 years of genetically engineered crop safety research, 1,783 original research papers, reviews, relevant opinions and reports published during the last 10 years that covered all the major issues of GM crop safety were collected and evaluated to "catch the scientific consensus" (Nicolia, Manzo, Veronesi and Rosellini 2013) about genetically engineered plants. This meta- review's conclusion includes some important results. First, there is little evidence of GM crops having negative environmental impact on their surroundings and harming native animal species. Second, although genes of GM crops can spread to wild natural crops, this occurs naturally all the time with non-GM crops as well. During the interview I had last month with Dr. <name> Head of Department of Botany and Plant <name of department> , he actually said the same thing about this phenomenon. He said that one danger GM crops could bring is the possibility that "plants could escape". The concern here is that once the seeds gets out, once they are release 
d to the environment, either deliberately or accidentally, there is no way to recall them, and they will reproduce and grow in the wild. Dr. <name> however, does not think that that is a big problem, because "genomes get changed all the time. You might think that a genome is something that is static, that doesn't ever change, but they change continuously, from generation from generation". The third conclusion from this article was that there is not a single credible study or paper that has proved that GM foods have detrimental effect on its consumers, either animals or humans. The next conclusion, similar to what has been indicated by the three studies mentioned in the previous paragraph, was DNA from GM crops cannot be transferred or incorporated into our DNA. Finally, the article said that there is no evidence that approved GM products cause unique allergens or toxins. This article provides real scientific evidence and is a representation of the scientific consensus on genetically engineered crops since it derived its conclusions based on thousands of previously published research and studies on this topic. 
3rd Body Paragraph: Benefits of GMOs to developing countries, and how GMOs can produce crops or other products that benefit society but cannot be produced through conventional breeding. 
Citation 
Nicolia, A., Manzo, A., Veronesi, F., Rosellini, D. (2013, September 13). An overview of the last 10 years of genetically engineered crop safety research. Critical Review of Biotechnology, 34:1, 77-88. Retrieved November 24, 2015. 
Palmer, R. (2013, March 30). GMO Health Risks: What The Scientific Evidence Says. Retrieved November 24, 2015. 
