The Success of Little Apple: Secrets behind Popular Songs 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This research paper mainly discusses about the reasons that why "Little Apple", a Chinese song, can be the most popular song in China. The author analyzes its success from the social media aspect, with 5 arguments. Also, the paper shows one opposite view, which music structure and dance is much more important than the viral marketing in promoting the song. In short, the research can help readers better understand how to create a popular song and make it become successful through social media aspect. 
Key words: "Little Apple," Catchy music, social media, promotion. 
The Success Of Little Apple: Secrets Behind Popular Songs 
	If you spend any time in China, you cannot help but hear a song called Little Apple, sang by the Chopsticks Brothers, which became the most popular song of 2014 in China. It won many prizes like "the Favorite Music in China" in MAMA and the 'Tripod' Award in 2014 and its success in China can be compared with "Gangnam Style" in Asia and USA in 2012. In some way, Little Apple is a significant example of modern popular music; therefore, people who are unfamiliar with the song can also know how songs around them become popular. Analyzing the success of this song can help more people learn better about China and the modern music market. Considering the different aspects of its success, some people think this song's own music value, including music structure and music video, contributes the most. However, I stand on the opposite side: viral marketing is the most significant factor that causing the song spread through Chinese society. 
	Before promoting the music, "Little Apple" was first created with technology that help make it become a hit song. In the article "Shazam Effect," Thompson (2014) introduces that technology like Shazam, which turns music into a piece of data to analyze modern music market, is also an important feature in modern music industry because record companies can predict the popularity of songs and advertise through it. Depending on the system, music producers can compose music, imitating the same melody with hit songs, which is also a process to create "Little Apple." As a member in the promotion team of this song said before, "Little Apple" was created to attract people as a theme song of the movie, "Old boys," and help increase the movie sales. 
	Viral marketing is one of the most effective ways to get the music noticed because of the extensive use of Internet, TV, and other media methods. The marketing team of "Little Apple" worked professionally on promoting the song. They chose an appropriate time to publish the song, May 29th, 2014. This day was between 2014 FIFA World Cup and the graduation of students from primary school to college. During this time, people always focused on the Internet to gain the latest information about these two important events so they would have interest in the song when they were online. Also, mass media has various channels to promote the song, such as "Youku", "Weibo", "Wechat," which are the most important entertainment websites in China. Youku, as the first website publishing "Little Apple," put the song and relating videos on the front page to attract people. Appropriate time and vehicles to promote music is a significant factor in viral marketing. 
	Another characteristic of viral marketing is that the marketing campaigns use pre-existing social networks to increase brand awareness through self-replicating viral techniques (The Journal, 2007). It can be one of the most effective ways of getting the music noticed. In the interview I did with Maggie Chiang (personal communication, Nov 2nd, 2015), a mass communication student of Purdue University. She mentioned the importance of the recommendation from famous people. On Weibo, famous users, including actors and singers, with millions of followers also recommended "Little Apple" and helped the topic of the song to the top of hot topics list. Thousands of people can be viewing these celebrities' content within hours of sending out a viral piece. Viral marketing is a good way for delivering music message because of how uses browse the web. The survey showed that 31 out of 89 people first heard "Little Apple" on the street, 34 out of 89 people first heard the song from entertainment websites and 24 people was recommended to listen the song by their family or friends. Among various vehicles, square dance is one of the most important reason for the popularity. Square dance is a social phenomenon in China because many middle-aged women do this for exercise. Walking in the parks on afternoon, you can easily find these women dance with high tempo music like "Little Apple." This music volume is always high so ever though you are on the other side of the road, you can still hear the music from the park. Therefore, the increasing frequency of listening this song because of square dance made people remember this song. 
	The marketing team also took advantage from the singer's popularity. Chopsticks Brothers once published two popular songs, "Old Boys" and "Father," and got a good reputation. For "Little Apple," the team focused on people after 1990s because these people are the most important group for marketing (Livingstone&Bober, 2004). Nowadays, young people loved to share on the internet and communicate with their family and friends, which means they are the essential part for viral network. According to a national survey by the UK Children Go Online project, the youth are the most active participants among all groups. Similarly, as Liikkanen (2011) acknowledged, young people, who are the target customer of music market and usually contact with media everyday, experiences INMI more than the old. The music companies catch this opportunity and take advantage from the mass media, like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. They create songs that young people prefer and spread them through the media. The marketing team seized this opportunity so they edited the titles of news about "Little Apple" to be what the young prefer, like "can't stop listening - the new brainstorm music" and created different kinds of parody of this song to get notice. 
	Even though the effort of viral market to "Little Apple " cannot be ignored, oppositely, there are still some people think the music itself contributes most on its success. First of all, "Little Apple" attracted people's attention by its simple music structure and repeating melody. This song and other brainwashing songs have a simple structure, which the melodies of all sections in the music are the same or similar (Fang, 2014). In other words, repeating the same melody in the song makes the audience have strong impression on the melody. From the point of view of psychology, Liikkanen(2011) contends that this phenomenon is called Involuntary Musical Imagery, which exists when the audience cannot control themselves but repeated the music in their thoughts. Except the music structure, the song uses several instruments, such as drums, electric guitar, electric bass and shamisen, which is three-stringed. The shamisen creates the light and happy melody of the intro and the electric guitar and music synthesizer are used to loop the melody for the whole song. On the other hand, as Maggie (personal communication, Nov 2nd, 2015) mentioned, the lyrics of the song are simple, too, which always repeats "you are my little, little apple." She thought this sentence contains the most impressive words in the whole song and makes the audience remember the song. The lyrics describe love as an apple and shows its importance. The simple and lively words allow people, including children and the old, to easily remember and sing. Besides, the music video and the dance also enhance the audience's impression to the music. The four stories in the music video talk about the love between a man and a cosmetologist, Adam and Eve, the prince and mermaid, and a woman and a soldier. These stories are expressed on a humorous way and make the video interesting and different from others. Besides the story, dance of Little Apple became the most popular dance during 2014 in China. One significant phenomenon of its popularity was that almost every square dance in China imitated its dance style. 
	These evidence supports the idea that music itself and its dance is the most important factor that why "Little Apple" was the most popular song in China in 2014. However, considering from broader side, social media should be the most essential part of promotion because without it, the music company cannot predict whether the song can be popular or not. Also, even if the song has high artistic value, it cannot be known by people in the country without social media. Therefore, advertising by social media should be the most important part for the success of "Little Apple." 
	To sum up, "Little Apple" is indeed a hot trend in China last year. Its success is inseparable with the simple music structure and professional marketing team. In the influencing factors, social media and marketing is the most significant one to help the song succeed. Social media helps the company predict the success of "Little Apple" and create the song with matched singers. Also, marketing the song in appropriate way and time to target market helps it popularize with least effort. Catchy songs like "Little Apple" should be tolerated because they bring happiness and help build the positive culture. On the other hand, the society need to encourage musical creativity. These music cannot be the main trend so creating music with higher artistic value is quite important. 
