Paper; Argumentative Essay (Final Draft) 
Course Name: ENGL 106i-IOU 
Date: 04/27/2015 
1209words 
Introduction 
In the United States, a big percentage of universities require their first year students to live on-campus. For example universities such as Harvard and Syracuse have policies that make it mandatory form their students to love on campus. However, some people believe that students should have the right to decide where they will live. This idea is based on the fact that university students are adults, who can make their own decisions. Although I agree with the fact that students should have rights to choose live on-campus or not, I think living on-campus is better than living off- campus for a freshman year students based on 3 aspects: 1) Academics, ) Life Diversity, and 3) Independence. To understand these notions, and to provide a broader perspective, I reviewed some literature and conducted two expert interviews to investigate which living condition is better for freshman at Purdue. 
Method 
Why do I think Freshmen Students should live-on campus? 
For most of University students in America, academics are definitely the most important thing for them. One of my interviewee, Jill. D. Harner, who is from Purdue hilltop dormitory front desk said: It is the first time that students are away from home. If they choose to life off-campus in the first year, some of them may follow the wrong trend since they do not have residential assistant (RA)'s supervisions and they are not mature enough, so it will bring down their academic grades without doubt. (Jill.D. Harner,2015). I totally agree with her opinion, because whatever for students who came from each countries, high school has much more pressure than University, some students firmly believe that University life has more leisure time, so if they cannot control themselves well, they will get distractions from study, if they live off-campus, there is no one who can restrict them from drinking, smoking or even taking drugs. For students who live in dormitories, those things are absolutely not allowed, so they can keep themselves away from party and neighbor's noise. In addition, according to the article I found,< On campus Vs. Off-campus living> it says if students choose to live on-campus, they can easily walk to classes, libraries, computer labs, cafeterias, etc. they don't have to waste time and money on driving to school, finding a parking space, and so forth. (Angela Storck,2013) Thus, it saved plenty of time for students to study. 
Life Diversity 
Second, Life diversity is also a significant part of a student's daily life, when you live on-campus, you will know more friends compared to when you live off-campus as there are many people who live outside of campus who are not students. They might be working professionals, young couples, families with children, or elderly retirees, you do not have too much things in common with those strangers. Nevertheless, students who live on-campus are also one of your schoolmates, you may take the same class or have a same major with them, so you can communicate easily with those students since you have something in common and you are at the same ages. For most of the Universities in America, each dormitory provides a kitchen, which means you still can cook for yourself if you buy the food materials. When I was a freshman I found it interesting to cook with my roommates. Moreover, universities also provide different kind of sports fields, those that are all on campus, enabling you to play diverse sports with your friends at any time. So there is still a rich diversity in life around you. However, some people might say you still cannot feel something different and interesting when you are still living at school. The very smart way is : you still can experience those fancy things when you becoming a sophomore or upper class student, when you are mature enough to deal with some problems . 
Independence 
Independence, is a very important word for every student, especially for international students. People always need to know how to live before they became a real adult. On the basis of second article I found "On campus Vs. Off-campus living" There is a paragraph about independence under living off-campus's cons. It says students will not have to follow as many rules if you live off-campus. Residence halls have several rules that students must abide by when living on-campus. (These rules are usually designed for the overall protection and safety of the residents). Living off-campus will give you freedom from those rules and allow you to set some rules of your own (Storck, 2013). Every person should know that there is no civilized world without particular rules. All those rules that are set up for students are for the benefit of students and the purpose is to let students become better persons. Indeed, student can get freedom when they move out of campus, but if they do not know how to drive, do not know how to cook, do not know how to keep themselves away from danger, do not know what kind of things they did will break the law, how can they live by themselves out of campus? Just like what Mrs. Harner said, students should learn how to set up a discipline and a plan of study, learn some basic housekeeping knowledge, and skills to place your personal belonging before they move out ( Jill. D. Harner, 2015). I totally agree with her advice about these problems. 
Conclusion 
	Sum up these ideas, I think living on-campus benefits university first year students with regards to their academics, life diversity and Independence skills. In terms of academics, first year students who live on campus can perform better since they are still new to the school environment and are not adversely exposed to the campus life. They have adequate time to study and I integrate with other cultures. On the other hand, in terms of diversity, students are exposed to students from all walks of life helping them learn how to live in a culturally diverse envu8rnmenty. This is good for both personal growth and prepares them for their careers in the culturally diverse workplace. In conclusion, living I think living on campus is much more beneficial because it is not only fun, but also more secure and offers the students unique life experience during their college education. 
