The Protection for Other Species 
	Due to the development of human, many species, include wild mammals and insects, are on the edge of extinction. Public and some associations had established many rules and nature protection areas to protect endangered species. There are also many restrictions on scientific use of insects and animals at the same time. Human have paid many time, chances and money on their protection. Those protections give a question that we are protecting them for what reasons? People hold different views. Some of them may say they should be protected because they are powerless; some of them may say it's too cruel to watch an endangered species extinct. As for me, the protections for many other species are too much. In other words, the protection is necessary, but not for all other species. 
	I am interested in this topic due to an assignment of my Entomology class. The assignment is about the protection of scientific use insects. Some brilliant engineers invented small electronic equipment that can control insects, like cockroaches. They stabbed the device in to insect's body in order to change the transmission of electrical signal, and then used a remote control to control their behaviors. Cockroach can be controlled by the small device to find underground survivors after earthquake. With the cheap raw material, the cost of insect robots is really low, but many people think that is too cruel or violating ethical rule to control insects by putting an electronic device in their head. From my personal view, scientists have done nothing wrong. When scientists have experiments on insect, they are just doing the same things as other predictor. Human stands on the top level of food chain. We are using other species for experiment because such experiments may give us a better life. Think it this way, if a lion hunted down a deer, we won't see it as a cruel things, because lion needs food and they are on a higher level of food chain. Lions have to keep themselves survive. So what's the different between our "cruel" actions and wild animals' necessary hunting? For other perspective, the huge amount of insects can't easily extinction by our experiment. 
In China, there is a well-known animal ---- panda. As a Chinese, I spent a lot of time going to zoo and watching their behaviors. They are the national treasure of China. When I was in junior high school, I had a zoo trip with my classmates. We were required to write an observation and research paper on Panda. As I knowing more about panda, the question why we are protecting them raised up. The panda is like the symbol of endangered animal conservation to the world. Government spend millions of dollar on establishing nature protection areas to them. In a zoo, panda even get more attention from zookeepers comparing to other animals. They have been taken good care from the day they born. However, due to the low efficient reproduction and the demand for special food, the population of panda is still low. The fun fact, learning from my school research, about panda is that they have the digestive system of a carnivore, as well as carnivore-specific genes, and thus derives little energy and little protein from consumption of bamboo. It's hard for panda to survive in wild by eating only bamboo, although they have sharp claws and tooth. In other words, they don't have the ability to keep themselves alive. The breeder and feeding process makes no difference between panda and livestock. Human is the only reason that they are still alive. We are like the "baby care" panda's whole life. If we see problems from the perspective of 'natural selection theory', the extinction of panda is the choice of nature. Vestigial abilities lead panda to their population's reduction. Human is not god, so why do we need to protect them? We are not special from other species. Ten thousand years from now, human was a weak species. Predators like bears or tigers killed people and follow their animal instinct. Would they protect us if we were on the edge of extinction? They wouldn't. Protection for disability species seems unreasonable by the theory, and I'm a supporter of it. 
Although I listed two example of species that I don't prefer to protect, but there are still some animals or insects that worth our protection. For instance, polar bear is an endangered species that needs our helping. There are more than 20 thousands polar bear in North Pole, which is one half comparing to past, from recent research. Their extinction is caused by humans over speed development. Our developments raise the global temperature and destroy many forest, moorland. Polar bear's habitats decrease as the ice starting to melt. Unlike panda, polar bear have the ability to survive in their habitats and they are playing the role as cleaner in North Pole. Polar bear will eat the dead body of whale or other kinds of fish in order to keep themselves alive and keep the ocean clean. The ecosystem is improved by them. Different from those disability animals, polar bear have the ability to survive without humans "baby care actions", and human are responsibly for their decreasing population. This is why we need to protect them. 
There are more than 1. 5 million kinds of species living on the same planet with us. Some of them will disappear from our world. And there will be new species born on earth. Why should we run counter to the nature rule? We should put ourselves in the first place before thinking about other species. Nevertheless this doesn't mean that we can kill other species freely. Somehow, the fast distinction of them will influence our lives. We need to protect the functional species without a huge sacrifice from human beings. 
Reference 
Wang, D. & Garshelis, D.L. (IUCN SSC Bear Specialist Group) (2008). "Ailuropoda melanoleuca". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Version 2009.1. International Union for Conservation of Nature. Retrieved 5 October 2009, from http://www.iucnredlist.org/details/712/0 
