Argumentative Essay 
Although Korean students achieve tremendous success in many other fields of study, there are darks sides of these successes that only they know. Most of students in Korea are suffering from Korean education. Korean mothers encourage their children to stay up late and study, students come back home at 2 am after studying at cram school and 51% of the reason why they committee suicides is because of the failure of academic achievement and stress from studies. Korean students are getting too much pressures from achieving academic success. My suggestion for this problem is that to relieve at least some of their stresses, Korean education system should not only focus on the academic achievements such as grades but also their talents in other fields. My other suggestion is that it is necessary to change the Korean mothers' biased opinions that only way their children are going to success is from academic success. 
Korean education system only focuses on academic success of students. Other fields such as art or sports cannot follow its growth. On my synthesis paper, there was an article that mention general Park Chung Lee who achieved tremendous economic advance within short period of time by using human resources. In order to enable more human resources, Park Chung Lee expanded Korean education vastly and education system had to be grade based and competitive. However, Kelly Cho, a person from interview essay said that as the Korean education was too competitive and only focused on grade based, the education of humanism and other fields such as art could not follow its growth. So, Korea education system lacks other fields of study. As they lack the education of humanism, students cannot understand a student who are different from them because their personalities did not grow as they weren't educated from that area. To fix this problem, government and companies should hire more people based on the talents they have not just based on their grades. Also, making more specialized jobs that do not require academic success might solve this problem. 
Korean students are in under pressure of study even at home where they should feel most comfortable because of their "Tiger mothers", Se-Woong Koo said from one of the articles of my synthesis essay. One of the biggest reason that Korea education became a problem is from Korean mothers. They are too obsessed with their children's academic successes. Most of them believe that the only way their children can be successful is from academic achievements. They want their children to have more cram schools than other students have so that their children can study more. To fix this problem, it would be good to make more dramas that encourages other fields such as music, art or sports. It might sound crazy but there was actually a case similar to this. There was a drama called "Beethoven Virus" that showed people enjoying playing musical instruments, overcoming their limits, and changing their personalities by making an orchestra and playing music together. It also showed that people can be successful by playing musical instruments. This drama inspired lots of Korean parents to make their children to play musical instruments. 
There are people who would say changing Korean education system is impossible. Also people would say it is not necessary to change this competitiveness as Koreans were able to have the tremendous achievements due to human power. They might be right; however, there are many ways to change Korean education system as I mentioned above. Also, by encouraging the study of other fields such as art, sports and music, and not just focusing on academic success to have more human power, there will be different kinds of achievements that might favor us more than just an economical achievement. 
In conclusion, it is necessary to change this competitiveness of Korean education system because too many students are suffering from this. In order to solve this problem, we need to need to have a focus on other fields rather that academic achievements and need to target Korean mothers so that they encourage their children to be successful in many other fields. By solving this problem of Korean education problem, students will feel much less stress and have more areas of studying. 
