The Rise and Fall of Nokia 
The Rise and Fall of Nokia 
Nokia, as is known to all, is a Finland telecommunication company that dominated mobile phone market around the world in late 1900's and early 2000's. It held the biggest portion of market share for continuous several years. Starting from late 1990s, Nokia has literally dominated world's mobile phone market. It is shocking to notice that Nokia, dramatically fell off its market share after around 2007. One may raise questions such as: How come such a promising company failed to stand against other companies at that time? What are some of its secret of success and reason for failure? As we are concerned about Nokia and its prolonged history. In order to resolve these concerns, I found out some articles to help me prepare my argument on Nokia. 
According to article "Nokia: The rise and fall of a mobile giant", Lee (2013) pointed out the popularity of Nokia phone in late 1990s and early 2000s. "Back in 1990s there weren't these other big brands; more than 12 years before anyone ever made angry birds, there was the mobile game to rule them all: Snake" (p. 9). 
It is obvious that Nokia was mainly the only brand that people knew and had a great experience on its phones. Every time when people turn on their Nokia phone, what they see first was always the legendary and famous signature logo: holding hands. In the article, Lee acknowledged that "Nokia were so dominant. People didn't talk about what brand, it was just about the number, 3210, or whatever you had. They took users on a journey" (p.10). Basically this also suggests how favorable Nokia is among consumers. However, after i Phone's debut, Nokia started to fall its market share. The article attribute Nokia's fall to "complacency" (p. 12). This means Nokia "felt they could do no wrong". That is, Nokia was satisfied and they are still controlling the world's mobile phone market. While, Nokia's market share declined year by year due to complacency, "from 49.4% in 2007 to 43.7&, then 41.1%, then 34.2% in subsequent year" (p. 13). Unlike Lee, many people blame the decline on Symbian, which is Nokia's most prevalent mobile operating system. Ben mentioned "Nokia missed the importance of software." (p.8) Nokia didn't focus on its software and update to win consumers' favor. In my opinion, I totally agree with author's perspective on Nokia's "era of complacency". Nokia lost a lot due to its satisfaction to current status and didn't move forward. This is one of the main explanations to its falling market share. 
Similarly to previous article, Bilton (2013) also talked about Nokia's glorious history and its dramatic shift. He named many variations that Nokia had invented and liked by consumers. Before 2007, one could see different designs of Nokia phone, such as "flipped open," "some with minuscule two-inch screens," and "some designed to look like fashion accessories." (p. 7). People were amazed that mobile phone could be such a variant design and it's from Nokia. The era of flat, rectangular screens later became mainstream. Nevertheless, the author remarks Nokia is a company that "failed to understand the shift to touch-screen devices and tablets". Nokia didn't pay attention to the importance of touch-screen phones and apps roam between phones and tablets. In my view, the variety of designs of Nokia phones was a great appeal among consumers. However, the lacking of touch-screen devices wasn't necessarily a reason for its falling market share since it did introduce some touch-screen phones after i Phone. That is, Nokia wasn't visionary enough to make touch-screen phones available to appeal consumers before i Phone and Android devices. 
In the article "The Rise and Fall of a Mobile Empire", Green deeply explored Nokia's history with different perspectives. When it comes to its rise, he argued "Nokia would never have reached the top without establishing, at the core of its business, some astute and perceptive truths about what people want from phones." (p.2) That is, Nokia focused on its business and tried to know consumers' taste. Some feature phones such as Nokia 1100, 1100 won consumers' favor by its low cost, simplicity and ease of use. Also, Nokia clearly knew consumers' needs as it focused on "the core of mobile telephony," which is calls, SMS text messaging, and alarm clock and reminders, etc. At the era of decline, author ascribed Nokia to several factors, one of which is the smartphone revolution by Apple, and Nokia was completely unprepared. Another factor to mention is that Nokia, had always been a company concentrated on hardware. Nokia had leading hardware while the lack of focusing on software made it fall. Overall, I'm quiet impressed by Green's analysis; it suggested a few reasons for Nokia's rise and its fall which are not mentioned in previous two articles. While, it's somewhat controversial that Nokia had been knowing consumers' needs at the very first stage, whereas eventually it lost its direction how to lead on mobile industry. It's very likely that "complacency" mentioned in first article is the root of Nokia's lost innovation. 
The last article called "The Rise and Fall of Symbian Ltd.", explored Nokia's mobile operating system Symbian's competition and its extinction. Wood contended that "it faces successive competition from two rival mobile computing platforms-Apple's i Phone and Google's Android-one vertically integrated, the other using an open innovation approach." (p.4) Basically, this indicates Nokia had been less innovative and proceeds forward in a slow step. On the other hand, some fascinating functionalities are also valuable to notice: Nokia's Symbian platform had developed elements of the dominant design years before the i Phone or Android; Nokia had discussed creating its own application store in 2005-three years before the i Phone App Store-but abandoned the project due to a lack of resources. (p.5) In reality, we are much more familiar with App Store instead of Nokia's application store. My interpretation is that a company has to keep innovative and be resourceful on its invention in order to reach success; otherwise, it's still going to be a failure. In other words, it's more important and precious to make the invention beneficial to human beings than just creating something new with fully utilization. 
Throughout all articles, there are many factors leading to Nokia's rise as well as its fall. Among all factors, three articles suggest that Nokia's core focus on hardware; design and consumers' need won its dominancy of mobile industry. On the other hand, the lacking of focus on software and complacency led to its dramatic fall. Similarly, I conclude that Nokia's rise mainly depends on its functionality and design diversity and the satisfaction itself led to Nokia's fall. 
