P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 30, 2015 
Internet Fictions 
	"<name>, stop reading those stupid online novels and focus on your study, now!" This is what my mom usually said to me during my high school time. With the spread of the Internet, online novels are becoming more and more popular among modern day people. And based on the huge amount of those online novels, they include nearly all kinds of novels, the romantic stories, the science fictions etc. They usually are so fascinating to teenagers that teenagers spend hours reading them instead of studying. Some people say that those online novels are good to teenagers because those novels can enlarge teenagers' amount of reading. However, these online novels have more disadvantages than advantages to teenagers. 
	First of all, reading Internet novels will bring mental health problems. Internet novels are usually about the imaginary worlds, thus reading them too often will let teenagers be unwilling to face the reality. For example, the time-travel fictions are about the protagonist's experience of traveling to the past and possessing someone important at that time. In those unreal worlds, they do anything they think is useful and "fortunately" works every time. "But the prevalence of time travel fictions also reflects some problems of teenagers: their illiberal attitudes to life, their disillusion with reality, their unwillingness to "grow up", and their utilitarian money worship. Those mentalities will have negative effects on teenager mental health and need due attention and proper guidance by both educators and social works" said in the abstract of an article written by Xu-mou Tu, who is the vice president of Sichuan Normal University. The huge difference between the fictional world and the toughly real society makes modern day teenagers somewhat be unwilling to accept the real world and makes them be more nervous and difficult to talk to unknowns. 
Moreover, time-travel fictions often will let the protagonist die by either an accident or jumping off a building. For adults we know that this is only for the further plot, but some teenagers do not think so. There is a report in the Internet said that the reporter's daughter quarrel with him. "I would rather go die if I live in a way like this. Maybe I can travel to the past and become a queen." Reading those online novels gives teenagers a wrong signal that death is fun and can let people time-travel to another space. This signal makes teenagers not serious enough when facing the death and even makes them try this. 
	In addition, reading too many online novels will also bring some time management issues to teenagers and be bad to their study. For instance, I was addicted to those fictions when I was in junior high school. I loved reading them so much that whenever I had time, I would read them. Especially during weekends, I usually woke up at about 11am because I did not stop reading the online novel until 3am. Then I often did not have enough sleep and my next day's plan was also affected. What's more, I began reading them through my cellphones during the classes sometimes. Although those classes were not hard for me that time, I had to spend some time reading textbooks and my classmates' notes to learn. And the result was that I have even less time to sleep. Finally I was too tired, so I had a fever and only got about 2. 5 as my GPA. Novel on the Internet usually has millions of words, so finishing reading one novel will take a lot of time from one person. For teenagers, because they have classes to take and have homework to finish, they usually do not have much free time. Then if they begin reading the story and in order to satisfy their own curiosities of finding out the end of story, they will spend time reading the story instead of paying attention to the teachers in front of the classrooms or having a nice dream at night. This will be bad for them to manage their time and be bad for their study. 
	However, Internet fictions are not totally negative to teenagers. Some of the Internet novels have a lot of good sentences that contain the vivid descriptions of the sceneries, characters, or actions. Teenagers can gain some writing skills by reading those descriptions. And Internet fictions are much easier to be read than paper books. They can be downloaded and saved in cellphones and computers or be found in the Internet so that teenagers can read them nearly everywhere. 
From the discussion above, I can conclude that online novels are bad to teenagers. They will usually make teenagers not only feel tired all day and hard to concentrate but also be unwilling to face the reality. However, online novels are not totally bad to teenagers. Students can sometimes benefit from them by memorizing and using the vivid descriptions in them. In my opinion, teenagers are addicted to those online novels not only because those novels are attracting but also those novels satisfy their daydreams. Hence I think one way to limit the disadvantages of those online novels is to lead teenagers themselves to realize the best way to treat those Internet novels. 
