P5d1_arp 
Nov.09. 2015 
Why should we focus on Feminism? 
	These days, the half of the world may think that inequality is not a huge deal anymore. A group of society may believe that definite equality has come when we talk about gender. However, there are still developing countries facing gender inequality. Also, there are countries and communities that are not speaking up to these issues because of the consequences that they might receive. I would most likely focus on feminism in Honduras. I would like to emphasize on how gender inequality has a negative impact for women and some possible solutions to this problem. 
	To begin with, women in Honduras are largely disadvantage socially and economically. Women are abusively treated and experience domestic violence by men during their relationship (Progressio 2013). Some male leaves their family or split with their partner whenever they feel uncomfortable or unpleasant with their relationships. As men leave women by themselves; women remain isolated by the society with their children or alone. Living as a single mother in Honduras is a very difficult thing since there is no support system in Honduras by the government (Progressio 2013). Also, women are socially treated unfairly since Honduras has the highest murder and rape rate (Porgressio 2013). The unwanted death of women is becoming an issue since women are murdered with no reason, the unjustified killing is caused because there is no other reason than that they are just women. 
	Secondly women in Honduras has no authority and respect for their own body. In Honduras women are being treated as objects or men's property. Men are taught to believe since little that women are their possession and that they have control over their bodies (Progressio 2013). Also, women are expected to marry the first men that they had relationship with. No matter if they had relationship by force or was wanted they should always stay with the men that they had sexual relationship with (Jo Rowlands 1997). Most of teenage girls aged 15 or more get pregnant at a very early aged. These girls are considered ignorant or selfless if they do not get married with the men that they had sexual relationship with. The fertility rate in Honduras is 5.98, living as a single mother would be economically and socially tough for the mother and for the children. 
	The unemployment rate in Honduras for women in 6. 10 (Quandl 2014). There is almost no space for women to be employed since the society mostly believes that women are uneducated and ignorant. In fact, women mostly help men in the field for farming, planting, and more so they work without getting paid (Wason 2014). It is not uncommon for the society to consider unnecessary for women to be educated. Since the mindset of Honduras is that women is lesser important and subservient than men they should be taking care of the household (Wason2014). Although some women are employed they get paid less than men due to race, education, age, and more. 
	Living as a woman in Honduras may lead women isolated from the community. Not all women are treated unequally; however, most of the women in developing countries are being discriminated and are treated unfairly. Women are socially and economically disadvantaged, they have no authority and respect, and it is economically uneasy to support their family by women alone. In order to solve gender inequity, the government should support single mother economically. They should give the advantage to get employed and give the children education. Also, people should be aware of feminism to support and promote organizations and clubs so women who are mentally or socially ill due to experiencing gender discrimination should get treated by communicating with others and counselors. People should note only promote in Honduras, but also should promote abroad and foreign countries so they can increase funding to support women and families in need. 
Citations 
Honduras: Gender Inequality and Feminism. (2014, July 18). Retrieved 
November 20, 2015, from 
http://www.progressio.org.uk/blog/empowered-blog/honduras-gender-inequality-and-feminism 
Wason, E. (2014, March 7). Honduras: To be a woman in Honduras Retrieved November 20, 2015, from 
http://www.progressio.org.uk/blog/empowered-blog/honduras-be-woman 
Rowlands, J. (1997). Working with women in Honduras. Retrieved 
November 20, 2015, from 
http://www.ebookdb.org/iread.php.id 
Unemplyment Rate Women - Monthly - Honduras (ILOSTAT) - Data and Charts from Quandl. (2014, May 29). Retrieved 
November 24, 2015, from 
http://www.quandl.com/data/ILOSTAT/UNE_DEAP_RT_SEX_F_M_HND-Unemployment-Rate-Women-Monthly-Honduras 
