The comparison of acupuncture for obesity and doing aerobic exercise for obesity 
Purdue University 
04/22/15 
Introduction 
Two thousands year ago, Chinese doctors found that there are a lot of "magic points" in human body.( George L.T., 2015) Stimulating these magic points can influence different human body functions. Chinese doctors called this method acupuncture, and these magic points acupoints. There are plenty of alternative hospitals around the world that provide acupuncture treatment. Additionally, more and more people believe in the good effects of acupuncture treatment, and they are choosing alternative medicine instead of modern medicine and general surgery. My research topic was about if acupuncture has more effective on obesity than doing exercise. However, after I did a lot of research online, I have a doubt about the real effects of acupuncture because acupuncture doctors would like to give treatments for patients' lifestyles also, which might do good influence on the body. I think acupuncture is more like a placebo and short-acting painkiller for patients. 
Finding 
Acupuncture is not only famous in China, but also popular all over the world now, such as England, Korea and Japan. I can not say that acupuncture has no effect at all, but I doubt that if it can make big influence on human body. There is some research showing that acupuncture can remit the pain of patients. ( Paul Ingraham,2009) When the doctor stimulates some of the acupoints on the body, patients feel more relax than before. Also, acupuncture is more likely to play a psychological factor for human beings. A doctor from university of south Hapton chose several patients who had chronic cough and divided them into 2 groups. He told both groups that he gave the right and same acupuncture treatment, but he actually only gave one of the groups the right treatment. After four stages of treatment, there was no big differences between two groups of patients, most of them in both groups felt better then before. (University of South Hampton, 2015) Giving one more example, for a patient who has lower back pain, this patient believed in the effect of his acupuncture treatment and thought that he is getting better than before. However, he still had back surgery after three years acupuncture treatment because his body did not really recovered.(George L. T, 2015) 
On the contrary, we can not exactly say that acupuncture has no effect because there is no research shows the evidence accurately. However, some doctors still believe that acupuncture is a potential medical treatment for people.(J.M. Lacey, 2003) In a fat loss research, the patients who got the acupuncture treatment lost 4.7% of their body wight, which is more than the patients who did not accept the treatment. The common problem for the research is that no one can control all the effective factors such as lifestyle and diet one hundred percent. Modern medicine has not shown that they have enough interest in acupuncture, so that may be the reason why we cannot have a totally precise research about acupuncture. 
Conclusion 
In conclusion, I think that acupuncture is more like a placebo than a medical method for patients. However, I can not say it has no effect because there is no evidence about it until now. I hope that one day, researchers can find a way to control all the possible factors and prove the effect of acupuncture. I would like to choose many groups of people and control their lifestyle individually. Finally, figuring out if acupuncture is useful or not. However, that would be a long way to go. 
