P4d1_ae 
March 28, 2016 
Supply Chain Ties Manufacturers, Companies, and Customers 
	With the improvement of technologies, manufacturers look for the lowering costs, companies find ways to establish close contact with manufacturers, and customers pursue the best quality of products with better customer services. With the increasingly fierce market competition, manufactures and companies will continue innovate and reform the entire production and supply chain to maximize the profit. Customers will continue seek for best quality and best customer service to meet their satisfaction and needs. After I finished first three paper of my sequenced writing. I totally embrace that supply chains will tie manufactures, companies, and customers at the same time, which improve overall efficiency. 
	For companies, there are some skills for them to develop the supply chain. Badeshia (2014) concludes the following: first of all, operate individual and unique supply chains in different regions based on different situations. Second, unify procurement, finance and logistics as a team and create a central supply chain organization for different locations. Next, set a united common language in shipping and payment that brings partners into the network system. Blanchard (2014) recognizes four critical elements in response to the vigorous development of supply chains which are making purchasing plans positive, shortening lead-times, optimizing the flow design of distribution centers, developing the relationships with select transportation carriers. 
	For customers, they are important for companies. Blanchard (2014) insists that with the rapid development of a network, a supply chain needs to be on customer-focused in order to produce profits for both companies and customer parties in the next decade. To prove this idea, Blanchard (2014) points out the example of Colgate. Based on the massive work of manages to segment different types of supply chain models in line with single customer requirement, this process improves both customer satisfaction and sales volume simultaneously. Moreover, Blanchard (2014) also suggests that improving supply chain visibility is needed to convert and develop a big business when a company reassigns investment from a small business. In addition, Anatan (2014) asserts that a company that has a good relationship with customers will generate satisfaction and loyalty at the same time. Because of refinement customer service, customers have more options and customizations. With the refinement of supply chains, the biggest beneficiaries are customers. When companies and manufacturers decrease cost as much as possible, customer spend least money on best products than before; they get best quality and fast delivery from manufacturers simultaneously; companies also offer options and customizations for customers. 
	For manufacturers, Instead of transporting goods back and forth between warehouses and factories, manufacturers ship out goods to customers directly after they produced it. With a direct sell mode, manufacturers save a large amount time and transportation fees. Modern supply chain provides several sustainable advantages, including lower production costs, reduced inventory carrying costs, improved in-store variety and selection and highly competitive pricing for manufacturing. Dr. David provided a newly efficient method called the "poll system" indicates that manufacturers should not make products until customers place orders. Based on sales records, different manufacturers gather and share information directly through network design. Therefore, with the design of networks, manufacturers can make their production schedule by the "poll system", which improves their profit. According to Professor Amy David, three are three more steps to monitor and to improve the efficiency of inventories. First step is to get accurate information of customers' demand, which help manufacturers decide the proper quantities and decreases the inventories carrying costs. The next step, manufacturers working closely with supplier. Since the location of manufacturers and suppliers is close, it largely decreases the lead time and increases the production efficiency. The final step for manufacturers to lower their inventories costs and improve production efficiency is to standardize products and module design. 
To sum up, manufacturers, companies, and customers stay in the chain to get separate profit. With the most advanced supply chain, manufacturers increase production efficiency, companies earn more profit, and customers improve satisfaction. Supply chain is beneficial for all three parties, which promote the development of market and stimulate the economy for the entire society. 
