Engl 106i 
5/1/2016 
We need more sleep 
In recent years, people get a great more informations from different media like tv and internet as technology develops, more and more people take care of their own health and sleep qualities. As a university student, I find that there are a number of students feel sleepy in the morning lectures and during the day. They complain about not having enough sleep every night and the time that university delivers the first lecture everyday is too early. Is the time arrangement of universities and colleges proper as almost all universities deliver their first lecture everyday between 7 and 8 in the morning? And how much sleep is the best for college and university students to not only keep healthy but be successful in academic learning as well? These questions are gradually becoming hot-debated topics among students, parents and health experts as more and more people consider about students life quality in universities. Many people say that morning is best time during the day so students should get up early and begin their study early in the morning. However, this common saying is not comprehensive at all. After learning from a variety of sources, I believe that college students should take more sleep about 8 to 10 hours every night and universities should deliver their first class later in the morning in order to give students better sleeps. 
According to the interview with Dr. <name> people with different sleep length can be separated into three kinds: short sleepers, mid-time sleepers and long sleepers. Short sleepers are those who have less than 8 hours sleep every night while mid-time sleepers have 8-10 hours and long sleepers have more than 10 hours. People's attitude toward sleep length has changed greatly in recent years, long sleepers were thought to be more lazy and lackadaisical comparing to short sleepers. However, they are regarded as healthier and more energetic right now. So does it mean the longer sleep length a student has, the higher GPA he will get? Of course not. 
As it is stated in a UGA University Health Center research, "college students need 8. 8 hours of sleep everyday to keep healthy and do well in areas like learning and exercising". As it shows, long sleepers are not those who are most successful in academic learning. So actually students' GPA is not positively related to their sleep length, mid-time sleepers tend to be more successful than others. This statement is proved in other ways. According to 
Lowry, Megan, Kayla, Dean, and Keith Manders""The Link between Sleep 
Quantity and Academic Performance for the College Student." 
Sentience 3. 2 (2010): 16-9, 
college and university students who have 8 to 9 hours of sleep every night tend to have the highest average GPA among all participants who are separated by sleep length at a rate of 1 hour. However, it is also showed in the article that the average sleep length of college students is 6. 9 hours per night. As it was mentioned before that college students need 8. 8 hours of sleep every night in order to be successful in academic learning, which is about 2 hours more than the average so students need more sleep. 
"Many students tend to have evening phase preference, meaning that they prefer to stay up late at night (Taylor, 2010). This is because college students have much things to do in the evening which greatly shorten their sleep length. College students tend to have far less sleep during the night than high school students because of several reasons: 1) the large amount of assignments everyday 2) time needs to exercise in the evening make them hard to fall asleep 3) party time 3) game time and 4) love life. 
According to the information above, what I can conclude is that college students are now experiencing lacks in sleep. And as a university student in Purdue, I find it hard to focused during the lectures which begin early in the morning like 7:30. Students around me also complain about the same feeling when taking early classes. So it is important to take a look at the university's time schedule and think that is it really a proper time to deliver the first lecture that early in the morning? As it mentioned in former paragraphs, students have number of stuffs to do in the evening, so the average time that students go to bed is around midnight. Then I made a calculation, if one need to attend a lecture at 7: 30 in the morning, he needs to get up at least an hour earlier in order to get prepared and get to the lecture room. That is he can only get about 6. 5 or less of sleep which is far less than the best sleep length of 8. 8 hours. It is common that a number of people who hold opposite opinions say that the time for university students' first lectures is on students own choice, they can even make their lectures in the afternoon. However, as a student, I can hardly make my first lectures everyday after 10 am. For instance, because there is only less than 100 students in chemistry major this year, there is the only one choice of chemistry lecture which begins at 7: 30 in the morning. Even if there are more choices, it needs to be taken into consideration that students need time to travel from different buildings between classes, so one can not make their classes too close. So as far as I am concerned, the first class is better delivered around 10 in the morning so that students can get better sleeps and do better in academic learning. 
From the data and reasons above, I believe that I am right about this topic. College students should have more sleep during the night and the time arrangements of universities should be reconsidered. College students health are more and more concerned by experts recently and studies about these topics are made. My opinions can also be proved by some of the researches. I believe knowing these informations can really help students to better arrange their time, do better in their learning and make their life better in universities and colleges. 
Work cited: 
Kelly, William E., Kathryn E. Kelly, and Robert C. Clanton. "The Relationship between 
Sleep Length and Grade-Point Average among College Students." College 
Student Journal 35. 1 (2001): 84-86. 
Lowry, Megan, Kayla Dean, and Keith Manders. "The Link between Sleep Quantity and 
Academic Performance for the College Student." Sentience 3. 2 (2010): 16-9. 
Tanel Baehr "The Relationship between Sleep and GPAs in College Students" 
Concordia University Journals (12/18/15) 
Danial. J. Taylor, Kendra. C. Clay, Adam. D. Bramoweth, Kevin Sethi, Brandy. M. 
Roane " Circadian Phase Preference in College Students: Relationships With 
Psychological Functioning and Academics" Texas (2010) 
Interview with Dr. <name> (3/28/2016) 
