An argument against the Overvaluing of 3D Printing 
Purdue University 
An argument against the Overvaluing of 3D Printing 
Introduction 
Stereolithography, as a typical new invention in industrial area, is quite unique in compare with any previous types of methods of producing. Since once introduced in the 70's by Charles. Hull, stereolithography has occupied many areas in the industrial area, especially in the designing part. The distinguishable feature of stereolithography that is it uses photosensitive resin and ultraviolet laser to produce prototypes. During the process of stereolithography, resin will be exposured by UV laser which will make the resin building bonds in molecule scales and form a layer of the product. And a new layer of liquid resin will be added and being exposure and gradually form the final product. The appearance of stereolithography let people overcome the limitation of complexity when making design, since it is quite rapid, flexible and even cheap in contrast of traditional molding and prototyping methods. But beside of simply using stereolithography in prototyping, people always seek for its application in manufacturing area, thus letting these platforms replace all the existing means of producing goods, for instance, casting, machining, and even CNC processing. Some of the existing voice certainly advocate that this application may make a big change in the industrial world, thus leading another new revolution in manufacturing. But just like the two sides of a coin, this technology still has certain limitations and shortages that restrict its application in mass production. And that's the main topic of this argumentative essay. But beside of simply blaming a certain techonology, I'll provide both pros and cons for this topic, utilizing the knowledge that I gain by previous researching. Meanwhile, I will also add comments of the technology based on the interview between both myself and the Clinical Assistant Professor <name> who manages the <lab name> which has several SLA machine in <place> . 
Initiative and performance in initial purpose 
First of all, I think it's quite essential for us to state the initiative of a technology in order to help us evaluating it. The stereolithography was firstly invented during the researching of finding rapid manufacturing methods conducted by Charles Hull in 1970s. At that time, Charles was tired of making useless and expensive model for the prototypes that are destined to be one time used(Hull, 2015). According to (Hull, 2015), it always took several week for making a simple, part functional prototype of a certain product since the process may need but not limited to making brand new molds of the product and change the assembling lines in order to fit the new design, and the process would be repeated for several time since correction of the design might be conducted for multiple time even during the time of making the prototype. But after the appearance of stereolithography, the problems are easily resolved. Because several hours of waiting and hundreds to thousands of investment are so tiny in contrast of the original cost. 
Different result in application to manufacturing 
But these several hours and hundreds of cost would be a fatal problem when the purpose is changed to manufacturing in huge quantity. A fully functional toy consisted by different components made by common plastic polymer such as polyethylene, PVC and polypropylene would easy beat the high cost of making the same stuff by photosensitive polymer and sterolithography platform. From the initial investment of building a factory, the cost of purchasing stereolithography platforms would be almost 8 times in order to reach the same production capacity of traditional (but modern) , medium sized manufacturing plant combined by CNC machine and advanced assembly line. And back to the manufacturing cost, which is basically consisted by the material cost and labor cost, a imagined "SLA factory" would also lose since the money it saved on the labor cost would soon be flooded by the excessive cost of the material - a ton of PVC's price would be at around 1000 dollar meanwhile a kilogram of cheapest photo sensitive resin would be 105 dollars (www.plastemart.com, 2016). And beside of the money consuming, the time is also a big limitation of the mass of usage of stereolithograpy, During the interview with David, I even heard that some of the students even asked them to add futons to replace the original chairs in the lab, since all the things they can do while in the lab is laying on the table and wait for a whole afternoon. Although that's only the performance of the experimental class of stereolithography platforms, but the industrial class platforms would not be much better since the volume of the products they are supposed to deal with would increase at the same time (Baumers, Dickens, Tuck, & Hague, 2016). And so far we can say the time and money consuming of the stereolithography, platforms are still not capable for being apply in the mass production. 
Performance of the product 
Additionally, we also need to evaluate the performance of the product beside simply discussing the cost. After the continuous trying on the material, the products made by stereolithography now can gain the same structural efficiency and engineering features when the producer have the valor of using expensive new materials. ( <name> 2016). And there is another shortage of the products that David mentioned is the accuracy. Although the product made by SLA could have a surprisingly high fineness theoretically due to its concept of "assembling LEGO", the real hands on accuracy would not be as good as what we expect according to <name> 's answer when I asked about the properties of the products. On one hand, people may always expect SLA could make very precise model regardless of the complexity - so they always send a very complicated model to SLA machine. On the other hand, a CNC machine will only deal with several cut, milling actions in processing every pieces but a SLA machine will always deal with the same action of adding and modeling material which needs accuracy at every second of the processing period. Thus making the difficulty different in approaching same accuracy by stereolithography and traditional manufacturing method or CNC producing. 
Conclusion 
To conclude, most of the research and answers gained by the interview shows that the stereolithograpy technology would not be a wise choice when people would like to mass produce some goods. But as it has already succeeded in the designing and prototyping aspect, it has already helped people much. And with the further development of material and programming, it could might the expectation of replacing the existing means of production on some day in the future. Although it's not applicable in manufacturing, it still have much space in some special needs and occupations (Adam & Zimmer, 2015). 
(www.plastemart.com, 2016) 
Reference 
Baumers, M., Dickens, P., Tuck, C., & Hague, R. (2016). The cost of additive manufacturing: Machine productivity, economies of scale and technology-push. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 102, 193-201. 
Adam, G. A., & Zimmer, D. (2015). On design for additive manufacturing: Evaluating geometrical limitations. Rapid Prototyping Journal, 21(6), 662-670. 
Hull, C. W. (2015). The Birth of 3D Printing. Technology Management 
www.plastemart.com. (5/1/2016). Detailed Price Lists for Resins and Polymers of Raw Material. Search resource: plastemart: www.plastemart.com 
ARGUMENT AGAINST 3D PRINTING 2 
Running head: ARGUMENT AGAINST 3D PRINTING 1	 
