Argumentative Essay 
Rolex company has been one of the biggest watchmaking company in the world. The company sells over four grand watches although the price is ridiculously high. The controversy is that people are arguing about the true value of Rolex. There are three types of people. The first type is people who are wealthy and own one or multiple Rolex watches. They all love the watches and they can't stop buying them. The second type is people who can't afford the Rolex. They simply just mock how ridiculous and stupid the price of a watch is and they also think that those rich people are tricked by Rolex company's marketing strategy. The third type of people is people who don't have money to buy the Rolex but desperately want one of the most elegant timepiece in the world. They either work their butt off to have enough money to buy a watch or just buy fake watches from black market. In my opinion, it will be such a treat if you have the money to buy a rolex watch. The watch will absolutely worth the money. 
The first reason why the watch will worth the money is because the reputation of Rolex company is so good that it shows how good of a rolex watch it can be. According to David Taylor Rolex watches: A timeless example of building a champion brand, rolex brand has the most durable reputation. He said, "The brand is as durable as the Oyster case that holds its components. And it's one of the most valuable luxury names in the world, at 68th in the most recent Interbrand rankings of global brands". It is the brand that people think is the go-to brand because of its astonishing reputation and unbeatable fame. He also said, " If you want a watch with a 50-lap counter, three alarms and an Indiglo backlight, buy a Timex. But if you want a watch that has scaled Mount Everest, ridden submarines to thousands of feet below the surface, or could simply be in your family for generations, invest in a Rolex". This excerpt shows that comparing to other watch brands, rolex has huge advantage of the pride and history. Everyone who is buying Rolex definitely is also buying the pride, the history and the self-esteem. The reputation of a watch is so good that even the price will not drop as much if you already wore them. You can still resell for a good price if you don't want the watch anymore. Take my friend John as an example. He used to own a rolex watch worth two thousand dollars. In order to get more money to pay the tuition fee and the spring break trip, he had to sell this watch. He ended up sold for thirteen hundred dollars which is under valuation but still a lot of money back. 
The second reason that I encourage people to buy the rolex is because Rolex watch has so many different watches that it is customized and it is also extremely durable. Watch collector David Ferrell said, "Rolex offers 3,200 combinations of features on its new watches alone -- different compositions steel, gold, platinum, case sizes, bezel types, bracelets, straps, dial colors, date displays, numeral markers and more -- and, when added to a century's worth of previous models and styles, many of them collectibles, the number of possible choices becomes mind-boggling". It shows how careful and detailed these people are working for the best watches for customers. Every single detail can be depicted vividly. From Ferrell's friend Tommy Haskell, he said, ""I wanted . . . an over-the-top statement watch. Only a few people in the world have something at this level". It shows how customized is for customers. On the street, people normally don't see the same two rolex watches. It is also durable because people can usually maintain the watch for such a long time. My dad owned a Rolex watch and he told me that this watch has been around for 30 years and the watch still looks fresh like a diamond. Usually the watch can be functional for hundreds of years. A human body can't even function that well. 
Admittedly there are plenty of people say that the Rolex is overpriced product. One of my friend said that the rolex watch functions the same as the watch in walmart which cost about 20 bucks. There are also people said that Rolex is just a dull and boring brand because they made the same type of watches. Also there are people said that Rolex is just for the rich people. However, it is not just about the money or the fame. There is a reason why Rolex is so expensive. Everyone who is buying Rolex definitely is also buying the pride, the history and the self-esteem. We can get external and internal value from the watch. We can gain external value because it involves high-tech constructions. more importantly, we can gain internal value because it symbols success and adventure. There are tons of people who travelled worldwide, survived dangerous areas with the rolex. It is a symbol of not giving up and fighting for the top of the mountain. 
It is true that Rolex is not for anybody. But if you have one, you are going to find out how incredible and fancy it is. And about the money. Hell, we have all of those time to work hard to get money, but it is very rare to have one of those watches on the wrist. So I think it is worth the time and sacrifice to get Rolex watch. 
