P5D3 Argumentative essay 
April 23th, 2015 
Should Everyone Develop His or Her Leadership Skills? 
In recent years, universities are paying growing attentions on students' leadership experiences. It universally acknowledged that student who have well-developed leadership skills are usually have advantages in university admission process. For instance, one of my friends who have leadership experience before receive a large amount of offers from outstanding universities including Purdue, Cornell, Carnige Mellon University and so on, even though that he and I almost share the same background and have similar standard test scores. Plenty of students have an opposite point of view and believe that some students like in engineering major should not focus on developing leadership skills instead of developing professional experiences, otherwise they can hardly find a job in nowadays terrible employment status, however I firmly believe that the best way to achieve success in your career life is to combine leadership skills and professional knowledge together instead of developing either of them separately. 
Everyone have a distinctive definition for success. Is that means these people who not wish to be a leader of a team are not required to develop their leadership skills? Obviosly not. 
"Surely not every are potentially a leader," <name>, Professor of University of Pennsylvania, said in his open course, "but it not means that you are not required to develop leadership skills. Before being a leader of a team, you need to be the leader of your life." (<name>, 2014) Although engineering major students are not required to do management jobs after their graduation, they do need to manage their time during their lifetime. 
As we all know, an outstanding leader usually has a lot of qualities like honesty, excellent communication skills, sense of humor, confidence, creativity and so on. These qualities are also the key factors to success for engineering students in their life. For example, Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder of Facebook, was known as a computer science student in Harvard University. However it's rarely acknowledged that he was also major in psychology in the same time that he had learned large amount of knowledge about humanity such that he is a versatile person instead of a programming nerd. Without soft skills like inspiration, creativity and communications skills, it's impossible for Mark Zuckerberg to build Facebook and being one of the richest people in the world only with his programming skills. 
Despite the factor that engineering student need leadership experience to refine their life, they may convert their jobs to managements positions for some reason. It's pretty fair that an outstanding engineer is promoted to a manager position and takes in charge of a whole team. In this kind of situations, a manager lack of leadership skills would lead the whole team to failure. Leadership is the way you lead the team to success. "Radically different styles --- think Steve Jobs, Bill Campbell, and Andy Grove -- can all lead to great outcomes, " Ben Horowitz wrote in his book The Hard Thing about Hard Things, "Perhaps the most important attribute required to be a successful CEO is leadership." (Horowitz, 2014, p. 128) Leadership in this kind of view is an approach to success more than a quality, and professional knowledge is the way to implement this approach. In other word, leadership sounds like a GPS plotting the path to destination and professional knowledge acts as a transportation take you to there. Just as the three world-famous CEOs mentioned in Ben's book, all of them are first engineers, and then CEOs that their successes are all based on both professional skills and leadership skills. 
However there do have some opposite examples to support the leadership unnecessary theory. For instance, Stephen William Hawking, well-known scientist who suffered ALS for a long period that he even cannot talk and move. His extraordinary professional knowledge leads him to success without leadership stuffs. Usually these situations always happened on some outstanding scientists that they seldom contact and interact with other people and the only job they do is researching and developing. For these people, spending time on developing so-called leadership skills is a waste of time and extremely meaningless that they would rather spend time on professional skills to finding breakthrough in their research. 
Personally speaking, I actually do not regarded those extraordinary scientists as successful examples because the definition of the success various from person to person. For most of us, we cannot be as dedicate as those scientists are that science, or broadly work, would only be a small piece of our life. As I mentioned before, we ordinary people still need those leadership qualities like honesty, sense of humor, excellent communication skills to social with other people in order to pursue our self-defined successes. 
To sum up, developing leadership skills usually provide us a much wider horizon and more chances to success. At the least, developing leadership could help people to build a rich and colorful life at least. Additionally, combine leadership and professional knowledge together would be the cornerstone to success. 
Reference 
Friedman, S. D. (2014, 1 1). Better Leader, Richer Life. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. 
Horowitz, B. (2014). The Hard Thing about Hard Things. New York: Harper Collins Publisher Inc. 
