Personalized Medicine, A Better Way to the Cure 
Can you remember how many episodes you have watched for Grey's Anatomy? Do you know what kind of clinical trials were "performed" by the super medical team in the Drama? Do you remember that once Dr. Bailey abandoned a treatment method that a seriously-ill little boy's parents selected, and used Personalized Medicine, which is still in the clinical trial test stage, saved his life? It is to all of the audience happiness to find out a young and beautiful life was saved. However, Dr. Bailey, the person who made this miracle, was sued by the boy's parents. Not every person considers Personalized Medicine as the best treatment method. Sometimes individual believes that the most frequently used treatment method- Guideline Based medicine, has less side-effect and is more reliable than Personalized Medicine. However, in fact, the advantages of using Personalized Medicine are more than that of Guideline Based Medicine. 
First, comparing the effectiveness of these two treatment methods, Personalized Medicine performs better than Guideline Based Medicine in prescribing drugs, diagnosing disease and predicting potential illness. By using Genome Sequencing Tests, Personalized Medicine can not only target medicines and make dosages more precisely, but also can diagnose diseases more accurately than Guideline Based Medicine dose. Infectious agents of diseases will be precisely recognized, and every pill prescribed from Personalized Medicine will work exactly on the infectious agents, and the length and the intensity of the treatment will be well designed. Personalized Medicine was also found a method to predict individual's sensitivities to certain kinds of disease, and to detect the onset of disease at early stages in recent research (Personalized Medicine Coalition, 2012). This discovery provides solutions to diagnosing the diseases which do not give obvious symptoms until they advanced into incurable stages, like pancreatic cancer. Predicting potential diseases is also possible thanks to the discovery. On the opposite, Guide-Line Based Medicine can only be used to diagnose when obvious and typical symptoms appear, and it can not predict any individual difference. Personalized Medicine's performances in prescribing, diagnosing and predicting show its higher effectiveness than Guideline Based Medicine. 
Second, Personalized Medicine is safer than Guideline Based Medicine because of its accurateness in prescribing, flexibility in adjusting medicine, and easiness in conducting genomic tests on patients. Patients who use Personalized Medicine usually get effective medicine at the beginning of the treatment. They do not need to try different medicines to find the best fit, so fewer side effects will be experienced. A case of treating non-small cell lung cancer- a kind of most commonly happened and aggressive cancer- proved Personalized Medicine's safety. According to the article Preparing for Precision Medicine (Mirnezami& Nicholson& Darzi, 2012), Ms H, who caught non-small cell lung cancer, responded greatly to the Personalized Medicine and avoided the significant side effects which are commonly recognized by using the Guideline Based treatment. The only side effect Ms H got from Personalized Medicine was a light red rash. Side effects can also be easily treated by using Personalized Medicine because of its flexibility. Doctors have comprehensive genomic information attained from the patients' former tests, so it is easy to design and prescribe new and effective treatment method. On the contrary, Guideline Based Medicine relies on the fixed guidelines and the experiences of the certain doctors. Thus, when patients' symptoms are atypical, they might be treated wrongly and their negative situation might be hard to inverse, just like the patients in MADIT-II- they were implanted with ICD uselessly and have higher death risks (Goldberger& Buxton, 2013, p. 2560). Additionally, genomic tests of Personalized Medicine only requires simple cheek swab or blood drain, which is safe to conduct and usually less painful than Guideline Based Medicine tests, like organ biopsies. 
Third, using Personalized Medicine instead of Guideline Based Medicine can save unnecessary health costs. Human beings all have different genomic and physical conditions that might cause negative responds to treatments, so patients should use their own tailored treatments to guarantee not wasting money. Sadly, the "same size fits all" is still very common in drug treating. Personalized Medicine helps patients choose right drugs, and right treating lengths and intensities, so patients will avoid wasting money. In treating severe diseases, evident results are already achieved. It was found Personalized Medicine can reduce total costs of the advanced non-small cell lung cancer treatment by more than 800 Euros compared to the cost of Guideline Based treatment. In another case, genomic tests helped reduce the costs of treating chronic myeloid leukaemia by 12500 Euros (Roediger, 2013). In treating minor and ordinary diseases, it is worried that Personalized Medicine will not help reduce costs. Using genomic tests still costs over 3000 Dollar nowadays, which is the main cost of Personalized Medicine, and it is more expensive than the whole cost of a minor illness treatment. However, we can see the cost of genomic tests is decreasing in a relatively fast speed. Thus, in the future, if the cost of genomic tests is reduced to a relatively low level, for example, as much as the money a patient need to pay for one month penicillin, it is possible Personalized Medicine can stably save patients an amount of money, whether the diseases are severe or minor. Also, The U.S. Government has shown great interests in developing Personalized Medicine, "Dedicated to Barack Obama, President of United States who introduced the bill titled 'Genomics and Personalized Medicine Act of 2006' in the US Senate in 2006, according to The Textbook of Personalized Medicine (Jain, 2009). Therefore, under the support of the Government, the accelerated research will boost the development of Personalized Medicine. The cost of genomic tests will be reduced in a greater extent. It is very hopeful Personalized Medicine can be covered by health insurances in someday, and people can all easily afford it. 
Although Personalized Medicine has many advantages, Guideline Based Medicine can not be substituted in many cases. Since doing genomic tests for Personalized Medicine do take times, in the many urgent situations Guideline Based Medicine is still extraordinarily important. For example, in the emergency rooms of hospitals, doctors need to do operations on trauma patients immediately, and to prescribe life-saving medications at exact times. There is no time to wait for genomic tests result, so only the Guideline Based Medicine is effective in this time. 
The development of practice medicine is still going on. As one of the most promising treatment model, Personalized Medicine has lots of advantages, which show up not only in its effectiveness of prescribing, diagnosing and predicting, but also in its safety and its relatively lower cost. Hope the development of Personalized Medicine can help modern practice medicine work better, and patients can benefit more from the combination use of both Personalized Medicine and Guideline Based Medicine. 
