Argumentative Paper 
4/23/2016 
Changes In Marketing Overtime: What Affects Most? 
Fast-forward development in technology has occurred in the 21st century with many aspects in our society. A businessman can fly to see his partner living in a country on the other side of the Earth in 20 hours by plane, a farmer can know about the weather in the coming week from forecast on the TV, a ill student can tell the teacher about his absence only by one call with the phone. People's life became more convenient and efficient with technology changes and development. Technology change also cause acts of various institutions. According to National Research Council (2014), the broadening of NCSES's (National Center For Science And Engineering Statistics) statistical mission by the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Reauthorization Act of 2010. 
By exploring further on how technology has made people's life more convenient, it is not difficult for every one of us to find out that specific fields have also been innovated. In my major field, marketing, enumerable changes have emerged in the past few decades. Marketers started to think and work in a much different way, such as putting more effort on market research and making a good use of social medias. But what played the most essential role in the advance of marketing? As an expert claimed that, 
"Marketing has changed in profound ways," ( Rabinowitz, 2011). Marketing tools have been changed from traditional ones like billboards and flyers to electronic pop-up advertisement. Also, more factors started to change the way of marketing now than before. The consumers' thoughts always came the first in the past but now even the interaction between cultures are taking as consideration in marketing. Among all elements that we can think of, such as politics, environment and even religions, technology seems to be the most effective one in changing marketing. One of the reasons why something like politics or religions are now playing more important roles is that the technology has brought the people all over the world together to make an influence on one another. 
Most people consider marketing as advertising generally. And it true that the visible and most apparent work of marketers is designing all kinds of advertisement. However, since advertisements need to be presented in forms like billboards or TV commercials, 
the way of advertising has been improved by the development in technology. With the invention of television and computer, people nowadays no longer rely on paper materials but tend to get information from TVs or computers. "More than 3 billion people are now using the Internet, according to the United Nations agency that oversees international communications," (Davidson, 2015). For example, everyone has to eat every single day but many people might not have time to cook by themselves for every meal and that is one of the reasons why restaurants are popular. But how does the consumer choose the 
ideal restaurant in a short time? That is the time when advertisements on the Internet work to prove their functions. According to a research paper, Commercials on the Internet helped not only the restaurant to advertise but also customers to find what they want efficiently. 
Some people might consider the invention of TVs or computers as the development of technology which can also make a change in marketing field, but actually, TVs and computers are just tools for people to see advertisement. But as long as we discover further, social media or applications offered with computers or smartphones are the ones make these tools effective. As Roger Layton mentioned in his journal, "Marketing systems can be thought of as complex social networks of individuals and groups linked through shared participation in the creation and delivery of economic value through exchange" (Layton, 2015). Socializing by using social medias which are provided by new technology is apparently a efficient way in marketing. For instance, companies can have 
their own facebook pages and advertise with little cost. And if someone enjoys a service or a product, he or she can easily share it with families and friends. The most effective function of social media is providing a sharing platform to people. This can definitely be considered as a breakthrough of marketing tools. 
Apart from ways of advertising, some concepts in marketing have also been different since the technology development changed the marketing tools. According to Mc Kinsey Quarterly(1966), the increase of market research is suggested by the 
membership growth of the American Marketing Association (AMA) from 2,800 in 1950 to an estimated 13,000 by mid-1966. Most of the increase represents marketing research, not individuals from the academic fields. As long as seven years ago, according to a national study by the AMA, nine out of ten companies with sales of $25 million or more had at least one marketing researcher on their staffs. For instance, technology improvements have led marketing tools transfer to make marketing team become a research department in order to keep pace with the dramatically progressive society. That means marketing is becoming more relevant to doing research. But how exactly did the concept of marketing change? For marketers, knowing as much as possible about their customer helps them enhance their work. The way to get to know about the customers is marketing research. And for the time being, the marketing seems to be overwhelmed by countless statistics and information, specific research done by markets are like filtrating pebbles from tons of sand. As an evidence, the Chart 1 is a graph of trends of the amount of information between 2001 and 2009. (Takahiro, 2013) 
Chart 2. Graph of Trend of amount of information between 2001 and 2009. From Institute for Information and Communications Policy, retrieved from http://www.slideshare.net/MKTGENGINE/inboundorg-presentation-20130716 . 
It is obvious that there is a huge gap between the amount of information produced and information can be consumed. And the function of research is to make the information work efficiently. Although a company may have researchers of the market in the past, the need for marketing researchers have never been desired like it is today. Fortunately, nowadays the information technology, which is also called IT, enabled business process redesign (Fiedler, Grover, Teng, 1994). So that market researches are able to be done with the large amount of statistics. The research plays such an important role that the marketing team is more likely to be a research department eventually. 
One more fact that could be easily ignored is that the technology has also changed people as costumers. Internet has made everything available everywhere in our world and it has been a game changer for marketers, especially those who may be targeting in international market. Consumers can be influenced by people far away geographically. The popularity of the Kardashians makes a perfect example. Twenty years ago, people in another country might have never heard about the Kardashian but now they are fond of them and want to dress or look like them. The restaurant they talked about in the TV show might be out of reservation in the next week. The popularity has always been a 
consumption incentive all the time. 
However, the effect caused by celebrities like the Kardashians can not be covered into every aspect in people's daily life. The example is just to show how consumers have been changed by the development of technology. People's opinion of shopping also became unlike in the past. With the emergence of online shopping, people found the convenience of purchasing on the Internet by using computers or even hand-held devices like smartphones. Advertising in the stores tends to be less important while pop-up advertisements are accepted as a new way of doing marketing. The requirement of showing the product concisely on the webpage request marketers with the ability of using high techniques. After all, need drives demand, consumers changed by technology development cause transformation in marketing. 
The world we are living in is fast-paced developing, according to an Indian scholar, developments in science and technology are fundamentally altering the way people live, connect, communicate and transact, with profound effects on economic development (Chetty, 2012). The benefit of developing science and technology has already been as plain as the nose on our faces. It is clear that technology will keep its pace on improving our life in the coming future. 
