The Importance behind A Resident Assistant 
Resident assistant is becoming popular and competitive among students who are trying to find jobs on campus. Many students believe that resident assistants mostly hold activities for the residents, so their jobs are easy. However, the increasing rate of crime or suicide from residents in universities around the world shows that RAs are facing more serious social problems than before. As university pays more attention to the importance of RAs, their jobs are becoming harder. 
With strong interests in how RA works, I made an interview with my RA, Shawn a month ago. Throughout the interview, Shawn expressed his feeling that it's really hard to make residents to regard their RAs as a trusted group of people. He tried to make himself as a close friend to all the residents by holding weekly activities such as American Football Events, Apple Orchard Events, Movie Time, but the residents do not want to join. He once thought that there would be at least five guys coming to his Movie Time but only one person did."Maybe a two academic years' gap causes this separation that they do not think of me as a peer friend." Shawn stated. The residents are all freshmen, while RAs are mostly seniors and juniors. When problem comes, residents prefer to seek help from freshmen because they might be close friends since high school. They could share their secrets and feelings at any time, but for resident assistants, it's not easy for them to establish such close relationships. 
The second point is that RAs have to meet lots of requirement and take enough training classes. Universities are cautious about choosing qualified RAs because they have major responsibilities in helping and tutoring the residents. At Purdue, university lowers $6600 tuition, eliminates living and eating fees, and pays high salary to each admitted RA in order to attract more and more high-quality applicants. The selecting process is ruthless. About one thousand students apply, only sixteen percent of them get admitted to take the training course, and finally the Office of Residential Life choose one-third of the trained applicants to be RAs. University measures a qualified RA in his or her ability to successfully do well in leadership, on-campus job, academic study, and always make right decision to residential issues. So here comes the question. How do universities choose applicants to be RAs through the training courses? The Director of Student Programs & Services in Pennsylvania State University, Robert C. De Witt suggests that universities should not focus so much on theoretical problems, but on real ability to manage resident buildings and handle complex problems. So applicants who are trained by Purdue Residential Life need to take GS course during the whole semester, which is about leadership and communication. After that, they should work as interns in Residential Hall for some time. The training courses are not only theoretical classes, but also actual practice. 
Emphasizing another point, since the students are facing higher pressure from society, the job for RA is becoming more challenging. Most resident assistants are not specifically trained to deal with residents who are facing some serious social problems like suicide, child abuse, or divorce. For example, the roommate problem happened on September 22, 2010 in Rutgers University showed the RAs lack experience and training in observing and dealing with the potential mental problems around the residents. In this tragedy, a freshman called Tyler Clementi committed suicide after his privacy was invaded by his roommate and Clementi could not seek help from the resident assistant. The roommate issue is becoming a serious social problem, as more and more student go to universities that are far away from home and they have to live in resident halls. Some students would feel homesick, or some may feel uncomfortable to live with their roommate. When residents have living issues, such as mental health or roommate compatibility, they should first think of and ask their RAs for solution. Thus, the job of resident assistant is no longer simple; instead it is becoming complex and challenging. 
Recently some universities are considering canceling the position of resident assistant and using professional staffs as substitution because universities are afraid that those 20-year-old RAs may not handle the ongoing difficult residential issues. But it will not help. Residents would have more difficulty or blocks communicating with senior staffs than peer resident assistants. It is easier for RAs than staffs to pal up with residents if they have well prepared and already taken proper training classes. 
University offers resident assistants comfortable working places and high salary, as return they should be very qualified to solve any complex, serious issues. The importance of resident assistant should not be omitted. Actually the more difficult job for RAs appears, the more qualified RAs are needed, and the more attention to RAs should be paid from society and college as they are an important part of the college life for college students. 
Work Cited 
De both, Shawn. Personal interview. 29 October 2014. 
Slotnik, Daniel E. "Can't We All Just Get Along?" The New York Times. 19 July 2012. Web 28 October 2014. 
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/22/education/edlife/experts-advise-on-roommate-conflicts.html?module=Search&mab Reward=relbias%3As&_r=0 
Robert C, De Witt. "Proper Training Crucial for Resident Assistants." The Chronicle Of Higher 
Education. 21 March 1990. Web 28 October 2014. 
http://chronicle.com/article/Proper-Training-Crucial-for/70087/ 
