Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
April 13, 2016 
Humans Need of Technology 
	In modern society the use of technology can be seen everywhere. One time I asked my 10-year-old brother, "what would make you happy the day of your birthday? He said "The new waterproof, 60 GB, Galaxy S5". This made me realize that we are becoming too reliant on technology because in order to satisfy my brother's happiness, my parents would have to give him a very advanced technological device. Are we overusing it and becoming dependent? Some might argue that the use of technology is good and leads to a proficient society. Others, like myself, argue that we are becoming too dependent on technology. Although this dependency might have its positive side, it might become an issue in the future. The dependency can be seen in business structures, way of communicating, and peoples' erroneous thought that we can control how much technology we use. 
Although people might think that we can control how much we use technology during the day, but actually we cannot control the time that we use it. For example, it is so easy to use a smartphone and it is also very accessible, so we will indeed use it without controlling the time that we use it. Even if we are not on our cellphones for a couple of minutes, we are constantly thinking about where it might be or what could have happened to it. Our smart phones allow us to take our email, our work, our games, our photos, our music - basically our entire life - with us wherever we go and we see it as something normal. As a result, all our responsibilities have blurred into one making us unconscious of the excessive time of use of technology (Burrus, 2012). Many thoughts come up to our minds during the day, but it is certain that many of these thoughts are regarding to our technologic devices. To give a more specific example, I interviewed Guillermo Montano, a Guatemalan businessman. Guillermo explained the many things that he does with his smartphone such as playing with his kids or doing important tasks for the company, like performing business transactions or making important calls. Therefore, this interview showed me the importance and the time that a businessman puts on his smartphone not only during his leisure time, but also to help his company. 
	Now, not only Guillermo's company, but many companies completely rely on technology. The structure of how businesses operate has drastically changed in a rather short period of history. Some people are forced into technology use when going into business because most of the time employers are required to use some types of innovative equipment. The majority of employees in every field now use multiple devices every day, including desktops, laptops, smartphones and tablets. Others said they now use tablets at work and use a desktop alone or alongside other devices (Perez, 2014). A fact like this shows how many people use so much technology in their work. AT&T is a clear example of this. The present AT&T workers attend the customers through a tablet. They change the customers' plans, they charge new phones, they print out receipts, they assign phone numbers, etc.- all throughout an advanced tablet! These workers show how they depend on technology to be able to work because without the tablets, they would get behind and customers will prefer other companies. Clearly, the dependency of technology at companies exists. 
The technology uses in corporations start with people learning how to use it at school. Now days, the way of learning is changing. Schools have changed over to being almost completely through technology. Even children at young ages are given i Phones at home and scholar books are now found online through these devices. At a rapid pace, the old-school pen and paper is becoming extinct, but that is not a problem. According to the U.S. Department of Education, using a technological method of education can positively affect how teachers connect with students. This method of teaching will help students develop their own instruction and personalize learning (Funches, 2014). Clearly, the benefits of this innovative method are shown, but with it comes a huge negative. Moreover, if the schools' technology went down, the schools would go down. For example, if Purdue's blackboard would stop working, students could not download nor submit important assignments. Furthermore, people have learned from physical books in libraries for years, which is a proven system. Learning through technology is yet to be proven as efficient as the "old-school" way, and even better. Some might argue that this constant exposure to technology can draw kids to the loss of communication skills, but it's actually the opposite. 
	Besides technology's effect on businesses and schools, people's way of communicating is recognized to have changed. In today's age, if someone wants to express him or herself, it seems that many have to use social media to do it. Savastio, R. (2013) proves that Facebook causes depression. It states that the more someone uses it, the unhappier he or she becomes. Researchers at the University of Michigan observed 82 Facebook users during a two-week period and they noticed that the more time a person spends on Facebook, the more his or her feelings of well-being decrease and feelings of depression increase (Savastio, 2014). Regardless of the way some people express their feelings, people have also worsen their way of writing. Due to the excessive usage of online chatting and shortcuts, the writing skills of today's young generation have declined quite tremendously (Martin, 2013). One example that proves this is that now people would rather type "idk" instead of "I don't know" or "u" instead of "you," which is something that affect those later on. 
	Imagine what would happen if for any reason these workers actually cannot keep using these helpful technological devices. Purdue University alone would go into shambles. Dining courts would have no way of swiping people in, students could not turn in their homework, no one would know time changes, and people would struggle with traveling arrangements. "Nearly 100 percent of public schools in the United States have access to the Internet the Status of Computer and cite Use in Schools." This shows clear dependence. Although there are clear advantages in technology, it does not make up for the severe dependency our society has developed. Technology like many things can be measured with pros and cons. Technology's pros could in theory outweigh the cons, but currently that is not the case. The digital age is taking over human lives in the purest form. Humans are becoming so technologically dependent it is scary. At the rapid rate we are going this can lead to many problems in the future. We need to put a limit to technology, by implementing laws or ethical rules in society were we separate humans and machines, so we never loose the essence of human kind. 
