Communication between international students and local students 
"I am frustrated when I start my campus life." It is the deepest sound from most international students since we leave our home to a whole new environment. We live independently. We study consciously. We communicate difficultly. Majority give a reason that mental health of international students touches off the communication barriers between international students and native students. However, in my perspective, loneliness is the most significant reason caused communication difficulties. 
Loneliness, which caused communication obstacles in different races, is related to the need to belong. "No man is an island, entire of itself," argued by Donne in his article. Loneliness and international students: An Australian study. He believes that people feel unpleasant and lack of relationship when they first arrive foreign countries, and this feeling lead to the lack satisfaction of in belonging. As a result, they feel loneliness and are not willing to interact with others Two kinds of problems are caused by the loneliness. The first problem is emotional difficulties, like homesick and negative attitude. According to Weiss when people get homesick, they feel desperate and have negative thoughts. For instance, when students call their parents and cry for the dilemma they meet, they will feel more hopeless and start to close the door of others. The other problem is difficulties in social networking. Due to "a sense of an exclusiveness", lonely people feel scare of social networking activities, even though they are in an activity-rich environment like the United States. Thus, the need to belong is very important for international students to open their mouse and practice their English and finally make friends with people form different countries. 
On the other hand, someone who never experiences loneliness will feel comfortable of making friends with students from different countries. One of my friend called Nikki has been in the United States for almost five years. She told me that she was independent girl because she was put up among several relatives during her whole childhood. She needed to learn to take care of herself. When her mother threw her to abroad alone, she did not cry instead she felt released since she could live alone which meant she was freer. After she went to her new school in California, she made friends quickly since she never felt isolation but kindness and be welcomed. However, when I first came into Purdue, I cried several times because of homesick so I felt lonely and was not willing to speak out of my mind. But after I got used to this situation, I started to comfort myself and when we had group assignment, I tried my best to talk my idea and made fun with my native classmates. Thus, whether we feel lonely determines whether we can make friends with others. 
On the other hand, in the previous mentioned, majority think that mental health will cause communication problem between international students and native students. I find an article titled "addressing the mental health concerns of international students". In this article, the author mentions that international students sometimes misunderstand the United States' system which is idealized by international students. When they realize the reality, they will give themselves tremendous amount of stress which will cause communication problems since when they feel desperate of the campus life in the United States, they are not willing to make friends with native speakers and are eagerly want to change the environment. However, in my opinion, this kind of stress can be solved by time. When international students live longer in this situation, they will know the truth and find the best way to suit the environment. After that, they will try to push themselves out of comfort zone and make friends with native speakers even others from different countries. Thus, I think mental health is not the major reason that causes communication problems, instead, it just one minor part of cultural shocks that will cause loneliness of international students first coming to campus. 
All in all, loneliness which separate into two part of the need of belong and the first experience can prove my point of view and the opposite view, "mental health will cause communication barriers", is not well enough to prove the majority's think. What's more, communicating with different races is still a steep problems in international students studying abroad. 
