Argumentative paper, draft 3 
April 25, 2016 
Breaking The Stereotype: Lack Of Women Engineers 
Every now and then we see debates on which side of the gender is better in science and engineering (On average, are men better at science than women? (n.d.)). And from my personal experience, it is always the males that are thought of as the better between the two in the aforementioned field. But is this argument even valid? Are women actually lacking in capacity to take on engineering position? The answer is - No! As a matter of fact, women are equally competitive to men (Hamzelou, J. (2015, December 5)). Lack of women engineers can be hugely attributed to the stereotypes and misbeliefs held in the society pertaining to the skill-set possessed by women. In fact, there have been women engineers in past who have set an example for other women, like Stephanie Louise Kwolek (created Kevlar) and Ruchi Sanghvi (created Cove and first woman engineer at Facebook). These ladies have shown that they can equally compete against men, and so can any other woman! But, for some reason, majority of the society is still of the view that men are better at engineering. 
Strangely, it all started from the time we humans were known to exist. Right from the stone age, we know that men went to hunt for food and women used took care of children and home. As the tools were fairly simple at that time, men invested a lot of their time in developing strategies and traps to get food. This improved their logical part of the brain more (Ginger, S. 2003, July). Although, this does not mean that the female logic is lacking in any capacity, but as females were reduced to maintaining households, it became a trait of their gender. Children grew up knowing males will go hunting and women will be in charge of cooking and house. 
As the time passed, the roles did not change. Then came the industrialization age, where men went to work and women, as usual, took care of home. So it was obvious to have more men engineers at that time. And ever since, it had been men who dominated the work force. In fact, it wasn't until around 1940, when there was shortage of men in the industries as most of the them were serving in the armies during World War II, that women actually started to work in industries. Not only engineering, we saw more women entering into the job market in every possible sector. But it is true that at present we have very few women going into engineering compared to men, and rather going into other job sectors, with only about 18 percent to 20 percent of engineering students being female (Crawford, 2012) compared to 80% of healthcare sector comprising of women (Diamond, D. 26 August 2014). 
Even though more and more women are looking into the option of being an engineer, most still feel that engineering is not a fascinating job (Preskey, N. 2015, June 24). So why do women not look at engineering as an attractive job? I shall discuss the problem to you but first let me iterate why we need women engineers at the first place. Gender plays a big role in the perspective of thinking (How Male and Female Brains Differ. n.d.). And now that the market is flooded with new technologies, it gets increasingly harder to make that technology better than it was before. A different perspective brings a whole different way of going about a problem which can contribute immensely towards development. Also, only women can describe the things that will make lives of other women better and come up with solutions to such problems. For example, only a woman can explain how it feels to wear high-heeled footwear, so if you need to improve how such a footwear grips the feet, having a woman engineer means you can easily translate a thought into necessary action to make a better footwear. 
Now that it is established why more women engineers are needed, let us see why we are lacking in their numbers. My extensive research on this topic could only come to one conclusion that women are equally competitive and skilled as men are when it comes to engineering, it is only their thinking and thought process that makes them think they are not capable or otherwise deters them from this industry. According to Mr. William R Aue, a post-doctoral research associate in psychological sciences at Purdue University, it is only a 'psychological disbelief' present in society that women cannot achieve success in engineering which holds them back from becoming engineers. He explains, "Men think that women are not as competent as them in Engineering, although this should not affect women psychology, but as women are brought up with this mindset, it makes them feel less confident of their own skills. This is the reason when it comes to choosing a career, women feel more confident in non-engineering disciplines" (Aue, personal communication, 2016 March 3). As we can see here, the environment that women grow up in makes them think they are not competent and they never value their own skills, and rather undermine their skills. Women start believing that engineering should be left on to the other gender. 
In contrast to my argument presented above, some studies claim that differences in brain structures between the two genders is the reason why we see less women in the field. I must admit that there are minor differences in brain structures and how the two genders use their brains, but in no way does this incapacitate women. Mr. William explains that, "Differences in brain functioning is seen in how the two brains process information. Women tend to store the information as such, whereas men try and break down the information into logical patterns. But psychology plays a much greater role (in choosing engineering)" (Aue, personal communication, 2016 March 3). So even though there are differences in male and female brain structures, it doesn't explain quite enough why less women look upon to engineering jobs. 
While talking to my peers about this topic, they came with an argument that maybe women do not find engineering an interesting job, and this is why they do not want to go to that field. I definitely believe this might be true. But then the question arises that how do men find this field interesting and women do not? The only possible way I can explain it again is the individual thought process that women hold. "Women believe engineering is a very challenging field for them. Although engineering is definitely challenging, but it is equally intimidating to both genders. Women just have less confidence on their skills and so naturally take less interest in it", explained Mr. William. If we combine this with the fact that women are aware of the belief in the society that male are superior to them in engineering (which is a false stereotypical belief), we can easily see why women do not find engineering interesting. 
These arguments presented in the previous paragraph were the two major counter-arguments that I had come across during my extensive research apart from the one being why we need increased women engineers, which I have already addressed in the beginning. And all of these arguments can be easily explained by the simple argument that I have presented i.e. lack of women engineers can be hugely attributed the stereotypes and misbeliefs held in the society pertaining to the skill-set possessed by women. Moreover, we can easily fix this problem by creating awareness and soon maybe a woman turns up with an amazing engineering marvel, who knows! 
