Argumentative Essay Draft#1 
Accounting Diversity in the Workplace 
With the trend of globalization, more qualified international accountants are needed to earn Chinese companies more opportunities in the competitive global market. According to Reuters (Michelle, 2015), at least five million professional accountants familiar with international markets are needed to help China develop markets and expand business outside Asia. In this case, the prosperous job market in China is expected to attract more international accounting students. However, considering the diversity of accounting education systems, people doubt if international accountants are qualified in Chinese accounting systems. Based on researches and the interview I have done for this project, I believe that discrepancies between different accounting systems will not be a heavy burden for international employees. 
Education backgrounds of international employees make people doubt their qualifications for being professionals in Chinese accounting system. Since accounting education in different countries is based on different accounting systems, people claim that international employees may be unfamiliar with Chinese accounting system. Therefore, discrepancies between Chinese and American accounting systems will make them confused and give rise to their bad performance in careers. However, based on my interview with <name> , a professional in American accounting system, I learned that accounting diversity will not cause serious problems to international accountants. Based on her experiences in Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler (KPMG), the only problem that accounting diversity caused was the slightly different definitions of technical terms in different systems. Through more understanding of local accounting system and making early preparations for careers, international employees can actually fix this problem and adapt to the local accounting environment easily. 
Another experience of <name> also proves the point that discrepancies between accounting systems are not factors that adversely influence developments of international employees in the workplace. When she entered the work place, she found that the accounting rules are even different between companies. When the audit group receives a case, the first step is to meet clients and to clearly understand their specific requirement for procedures. The work of auditors changes with requirements and needs of their clients. Therefore, she believed that since the accepting different accounting rules is an essential part of daily work of accountants, the differences between accounting systems should be acceptable and would not trap international employees from pursuing success in accounting. When international students have a comprehensive understanding of new accounting systems they will be exposed to, accounting diversity will not cause trouble. 
As is illustrated above, the diversity of both accounting and accounting education systems should not be regarded as heavy burdens for international employees. In fact, some specific differences make international employees more competitive in the area than local employees. According to Career Explorer (n.d.), teamwork is highly valued in accounting. Considering that accounting principles and knowledge update frequently and are really complex, it is fairly important for accountants to work as teams and to share useful information with each other. Thus, interaction skills can be really important for accountants to work effective in the workplace. Based on <name> experiences in American graduate program, she found that the most important thing she learned is the interaction skills. When she was a graduate student in <university> , she was exposed to various opportunities to work and to talk with others, ranging from talking to recruiters in career fairs to doing case analyses with MBA students during management classes. By contrast, she also mentioned that in some Asian countries, students don't have many opportunities to engage in classes and socialize with others, leading to their having few opportunities to practice interaction skills. Consequently, Asian students who work in their own countries after graduating from American university may have better interaction skills and play a more active role in the group work than local employees. 
To conclude, as accepting different accounting rules and keeping track of new trends are essential parts of daily work of accountants, accounting diversity will not cause great troubles to excellent accountants on their way to become professions in accounting systems they are exposed to. 
