Formal Proposal- Literature Review 
P3D3 
March 13, 2015 
Three years ago, Jeremy Lin raised the public attention in an unprecedented way that his phenomenal performance in basketball led the underdog New York Knicks into playoffs. Accompanied by the geometrically increasing amount of fans of Lin, doubts were evermore being aimed at his success and people tended to pay attention to his skin color. What's more, Lin's impact on racial issues also raised the public concern. 
ESPN contributor Marshall Zweig (2012) has noted that during the two years, a lot of people were captivated and crazy about Lin, and also there were a large group of cynics skeptical of Lin's ability in basketball. In fact, most of supporters of Lin hadn't even watched one of Lin's games. Although Lin rescued New York Knicks from the scoring drought, what everyone cared about was the skin color, the story of him, and even the significance he exerted to Chinese community. As for Lin's rabid critics, Lin was only a normal person who experienced the momentary eruption in basketball performance and declined soon. They looked down upon the phenomenon that loyal supporters adored Lin crazily while neglecting Lin's falling behind. However, for most of Lin's crazy fans, especially Asian Americans, Lin's impact was really indispensable. Asian Americans regarded Lin's underdog story as an epitome of their lives, believing their lives and their status would be changed. Consequently, they deemed to see Lin as their representative and did their utmost to vindicate Lin's image such as attributing the decline of Lin to the external reasons. As for the opponents of Lin, Lin's coach Mike D'Antoni's fast-moving, pick-and-roll offense increased the success of Lin. If he left from the D'Antoni's tacit system, Lin would be nobody again and it would be the time for Linsanity to end. Critics were expected to verify their point until Lin fell from grace, and at that time, they would mock Lin's supporters tirelessly. Nevertheless, nothing else other than this dissonance between Lin's supporters and opponents made Lin popular even after "Linsanity's time". 
During the "Linsanity time", it was in great probability that only the sociologists could stay calm. For them, Jeremy Lin's background and his identity as an American Asian had far more meanings than his jump shoot and his assists. 
According to the sociologists Convers James(2014), Linsanity was originated from a big storm about cultural impact, social issues The meaning of success of Lin is more than leading New York Knicks from an underdog to a playoff team. Behind Lin's back, there were a lot of debates and arguments. In fact, the story of Linsanity embodied the immigrant narrative, anti-black racism, and authentic American-fairy tale. Lin had faced prejudices almost all the Asian Americans faced since he was a little child. There are several reasons to explain about this phenomenon. Firstly, Asians always had a stereotype that they could not compete with professional athletes in the highest level-competition game, but most native-born American teenagers specialized one of sports. Secondly, an increasing number of Asians achieved feats in high-income industry such as medicine, business and engineering, which cause the dissatisfaction and envy from native-born Americans. Nevertheless due to Lin's rapid success in NBA, Asian Americans obtained opportunities to justify themselves in American sporting cultures. Consequently, Linsanity was not simply an enthusiastic moment but a phenomenon giving a large meaning of race within American cultures. Conyers commented that American Asians was in an embarrassing position right now because they contributed a lot to nation building but they didn't receive the returns. American Asians chose to keep silent rather than host a parades of racism like African Americans and Mexicans. As a result Asian Americans gradually lost their voice and hadn't been valued for a really long time. The appearance of Jeremy Lin changed this situation in time. His eruption in competition attracted the attention from public, indirectly breaking the stereotype of Asians. In this way, as a representative of descendant of immigrants, Lin promoted the confidence of the "outsiders" who chased the American dream but could not find their position in this antipathetic world for them and gradually elevated the whole American Asians' status without intention. 
The influence of Lin due to the Asian community cannot be neglected, especially his impact on Asian males. Sports center reporter Victor Chi(2012) proposed that Lin had exerted an impact on perception of Asian American male. In Victor Chi's essays, Different from Asian female American Asian male hardly acquire attention.. Nowadays, as Convers James(2014) put forward, a lot of American Asian males are flourishing in the laws, engineering, business area, but few of them have succeeded in the sports and entertainments. Consequently, the American Asian males are avid to find a next "Bruce Lee" again to change the stereotype. At the same time, Since the most of the players in NHL,NBA, MLB, NFL are lack of high-level of education, Lin's high level education greatly encouraged other player like Lin enter into the league. In most cases, people are likely to categorize Asian men as socially and athletically awkward, not being masculine enough. However, Lin achieved both comparatively inaccessible success in academic and athletic areas, and naturally he became a new inspiring idol among American Asians. 
As an Asian, I believe the impact of Lin is significant. As Convers James and Victor Chi mentioned, Jeremy Lin brought the confidence and faith to us by performing an inspirational American fairy tale. He set up a really good example for us who came to America to struggle and compete with native-born Americans. I can't imagine the consequence of collapse of Lin's image. From Bruce Lee to Jeremy Lin, we had waited for a long time. 
Zweig, M. (2012, Dec 26). Why Jeremy Lin Has Become the NBA's Most Polarizing Player. Retrieved from bleacher report: http://bleacherreport.com/articles/1457423-why-jeremy-lin-has-become-the-nbas-most-polarizing-player 
Conyers L. James. (2014 July 15). A Fantasy in the Garden, a Fantasy America Wants to Believe: Jeremy Lin, the NBA and Race Culture (David J. Leonard). Race in American Sports : Essays(9780786473199) page. 289: http://reader.eblib.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/(S(yf4dif5z1kt34qbtihrfx2na))/Reader.aspx?p=1692802&o=58&u=52t Xb Ez Uc WQ%3d&t=1424879780&h=14F41AB186829A5A4EC50004EEF06F1D782E2D95&s=33201840&ut=130&pg=151&r=img&c=-1&pat=n&cms=-1&sd=2 
Chi, V. (2012, Ferbruary 16). Jeremy Lin: His Impact On Changing The Perception Of The Asian American Male. Retrieved from ww.thepostgame.com: http://www.thepostgame.com/commentary/201202/jeremy-lin-asian-american-male-sports-pop-culture-nba-hollywood-bruce-lee 
