View on the Unification of Korean Peninsula 
It has been more than 60 years since the bloodshed in The Korean War. More than 2. 5 million died during the war and many more have died in numerous minor battles along the border of South Korea and North Korea since the separation Rummel R.J., 2002. According to Bill Downs, CBS war correspondent during the time of the Korean War, claimed that Korea is the beginning of World War III Downs, 1951. Today, North Korea have been causing a major threat to the world's peace. They have been threating the world with illegal weapons such as nuclear bombs and long-range missiles. I believe that South Korea and North Korea must be stayed as two distinct country and two different government. This way, both Koreas can avoid the economic step-back. 
It is a tragedy that we have been separated for more than 60 years. Citizens of South and North Korea share the same ancestors and families Staff History.com, 2009. We are no different than distant relatives but it is interesting how the media's portrayal of North Korea blinded many other's eyes to see this and only see negative side of North Korea. North Korea became everyday life for South Koreans. News about North Korea always takes the first page of South Korean news-paper. Even though, it almost seems sympathetic for them to struggle to survive, when I see the cold-blooded side of North Korea, threatening South Korea with nuclear weapons and long range missiles, it makes me outrageous. Not only North Korean threatens South Korea and nearby countries with military powers, North Korea indirectly kills American soldiers in Iraq, Afghanistan and Iran by selling illegal weapons to those countries. This is why two Koreas should be considered as two different countries. Not one country separated into two countries. 
One of the difficulties of unifying is the cost of unification. In January of 2013, South Korea's Finance Minister proposed that if the re-unification process begins, South Korea is responsible for 7% of its current gross domestic product GDP every year for at least for 10 years. In 2012, 7% of South Korea's GDP was around $80. 62 billion Benedictus Brian, 2013. Some analysts and economists argue this $80. 62 billion is not realistic since it is accounted in a conservative manner. They proposed the $1. 5 trillion every year for 10 years. It is quite often to compare Koreas' situation to East and West Germany in the 20th century. Since two Germanys have unified successfully and became on the strongest nation in the world, many people and analyst states that it can be beneficial to two Koreas. However, to be compared to Germany, the current situation of North Korea is too poorly developed. The lack of infrastructure, industrial capability, and malnourishment within the North Korean state will make reunification in any form an expensive and daunting task Rounsaville, 1997. Also, in order to provide sufficient meals to hungry 23 million North Koreans, it would require 13,000 tons of grains per day and due to North Korea's lack of medical systems, basic medical assistance is estimated to be $500 million. South Korea is responsible for total of more than 2 trillion dollars. As a South Korean citizen who pays tax to the government, I personally disagree with the unification process. 2 trillion dollars is about South Korea's total income for 2 years. This payment will put South Korea in a situation where we would not have influence in the international politics. Not only we will have an economic crisis, politically, we would lose our voice and thus decrease international competencies. 
Although the disadvantages outweigh the benefit of the unification, some analyst argues that in a distant future, a unified Korea will bring fortune to unified Korea. For example, Goldman Sachs's 2009 analysis, they projected that unified Korea's GDP will exceed Japan and Germany's GDP in 30-40 years Benedictus Brian, 2013 Downs Bill, 1951. Even though South Korea will go through struggles of combining 23 million North Korean to South Korea's society, it would be integrating relatively young populations that would help South Korea's low reproductive rates. Also since North Korea's territory consists of rare earth mineral that is estimated to be around $6 trillion. Much of this wealth is in the form of rare earth goods that are used in the production of hi-tech goods: a South Korean specialty. The ability for Korea to have these minerals within their borders and instead of having factories in China to get cheap labor, South Korea could get cheap labors from 23 million hungry North Koreans within our territory. However, the problem is that this is a 30-40 years process which nobody could predict precisely. It would be the best if two Koreas stay as it is right now and develop a peace plan rather than unification policy since it would be too broad and expensive to plan ahead. 
	Unification policy is unpredictable. However, once it begins, there will be no more going back since two countries will already be under once government. Idealistically, unification is necessary because the separation have caused family South Korea and North Korea to be separated for their lives. Realistically, however, two Koreas must remain as two independent countries who share same ancestors and history. The cost of unification is too risky for both country can hold. 
