Argumentative Paper 
4/2/2016 
Changes In Marketing Overtime: What Affects Most? 
Fast-forward development has occurred in the 21st century with many aspects in our society. A businessman can fly to see his partner living in a country on the other side of the Earth in 20 hours by plane, a farmer can know about the weather in the coming week from forecast on the TV, a ill student can tell the teacher about his absence only by one call with the phone. People's life became more convenient and efficient with changes and development. 
By exploring further on this topic, it is not difficult for every one of us to find out that specific fields have also been overturned. In my major field, marketing, enumerable changes have emerged in the past few decades. Marketers started to think and work in a much different way. But what played the most essential role in the advance of marketing? As an expert claimed that, "Marketing has changed in profound ways," ( Rabinowitz, 2011). Among all elements that we can think of, such as politics, culture and even religions, technology seems to be the least negligible one. 
Most people consider marketing as advertising generally. And it true that the visible and most apparent work of marketers is designing all kinds of advertisement. However, since advertisements need to be presented in forms like billboards or TV commercials, 
the way of advertising has been improved by the development in technology. With the invention of television and computer, people nowadays no longer rely on paper materials but tend to get information from TVs or computers. A simple example can explain it clearly. Everyone have to eat every single day but many people might not have time to cook by themselves for every meal and that is one of the reasons why restaurants are popular. But how to choose the ideal restaurant in a short time? That is the time when advertisements on the Internet work to prove their functions. According to a research paper, "More than 3 billion people are now using the Internet, according to the United Nations agency that oversees international communications," (Davidson, 2015). Commercials on the Internet helped not only the restaurant to advertise but also customers to find what they want efficiently. 
Some queries might be mentioned about how is the development of technology go beyond the level of advertising through TVs and computers because these are just tools that people see advertisement. But as long as we discover further, technology development has been the one provided new strategies and techniques like using social media or applications on the smartphone. Companies can have their own facebook pages and advertise with little cost. This can definitely be considered as an overthrow of marketing tools. 
Except for ways of advertising, some concepts in marketing have also been different since the technology development changed the marketing tools. For instance, technology 
improvements have led marketing tools transfer to make marketing team become a research department in order to keep pace with the dramatically progressive society. That means marketing is becoming more relevant to doing research. 
But how exactly did the concept of marketing change? For marketers, only knowing well about their customer helps them enhance their work. And the way to get to know about the customers is marketing research. And for the time being, the marketing seems to be overwhelmed by countless statistics and information, specific research done by markets are like filtrating pebbles from tons of sand. Although a company may have researchers of the market in the past, the need for marketing researchers have never been desired like it is today. The research plays such an important role that the marketing team is more likely to be a research department. 
One more fact that could be easily ignored is that the technology has also changed people as costumers. Internet has made everything available everywhere in our world and it has been a game changer for marketers, especially those who may be targeting in international market. Consumers can be influenced by people far away geographically. The popularity of the Kardashians makes a perfect example. Twenty years ago, people in another country might have never heard about the Kardashian but now they are fond of them and want to dress or look like them. The restaurant they talked about in the TV show might be out of reservation in the next week. The popularity has always been a consumption incentive all the time. 
However, the effect caused by celebrities like the Kardashians can not be covered into every aspect in people's daily life. The example is just to show how consumers have been changed by the development of technology. People's opinion of shopping also became unlike in the past. With the emergence of online shopping, people found the convenience of purchasing on the Internet by using computers or even hand-held devices like smartphones. Advertising in the stores tends to be less important while pop-up advertisements are accepted as a new way of doing marketing. The requirement of showing the product concisely on the webpage request marketers with the ability of using high techniques. After all, need drives demand, consumers changed by technology development cause transformation in marketing. 
The world we are living in is fast-paced developing, according to an Indian scholar, developments in science and technology are fundamentally altering the way people live, connect, communicate and transact, with profound effects on economic development (Chetty, 2012). The benefit of developing science and technology has already been as plain as the nose on our faces. It is clear that technology will keep its pace on improving our life in the coming future. 
