Argumentative Paper 
Passengers arere continuing criticizing the efficiency of the Chinese railway system. They believe that the average speed of passenger trains was lower than they could do, and when the equipment malfunctions, it took too long to solve the problems. The Chinese railway company (formerly Chinese railway buerau) argued that it is safer to run slower, and the current situation is adequate. Because of the "723" accident that occurred in Wenzhou, the Chinese railway bureau decided to slow down all high-speed bullet trains. In recent years the average speed of other trains operating was also slower than it was years ago. Based on my previous research, the efficiency of the Chinese railway system can be improved by applying these three modifications: 1) the troubleshooting procedure; 2) the top speed of the trains; and 3) the schedule of trains. However, all these improvements are based on an assumption: all workers are working efficiently enough. 
The procedures workers should follow when equipment malfunctions are concerning on safety, but not considering about efficiency at all. As a result, workers are not always following the procedures, and they have to wait for instructions before solving the problems. There are a few examples regarding this. The "723" railway accident that occurred on July 23rd, 2011 was caused by human errors in solving malfunctions. The external factor that lead to this accident was bad weather that broke the signal system between Yongjia and Wenzhou South station. According to the technical regulations, when the dispatchers cannot determine whether a train is in an interval, no trains should be released until they made sure there was no trains. If the problem cannot be solved immediately and there is no train on the interval, the dispatcher may allow the trains to enter this interval with speed less than 20km/h. The next train can enter this interval only when the previous one arrived at the next station (Chinese Railway Company, 2014). Obviously what actually happened that day was not following the regulation. According to the official accident report, the later train, D301, was allowed to enter the interval while D3115 was still there, and the driver of the later train was not told to drive at 20km/h (State Council of China, 2011). During this accident, clearly the workers were not following some of the regulations because D301 is released while the signal shows green. Therefore, the procedures tend to be confusing already. 
Another example was on May 8th, 2014 when D3118 stopped before Quanzhou station due to a malfunctioning signal. According to my record, the train stopped at 7: 54 at the home signal (the signal that allows trains to enter the station) and left at 9:06. D3120 crossed the interval through the opposite railway at 8: 43 (Cheng, 2014). The schedule shows that there should be no train before D3118, so it should not stop here so long. Allowing a train to operate through the opposite line requires similar procedure for allowing the train to cross the malfunctioned home signal. Besides, the actual operating regulation is determined by every railway bureau based on the technical regulation, so Nanchang railway bureau (the bureau that manages this line) may have a different way of solving the problem. 
If possible, more detailed troubleshooting procedures should be designed. However, the railway company may argue that this would consume safety. From my interviewee, One of the reasons D3118 stopped so long was the "723" accident. They would rather like to stop the train instead of moving them for safety, which leads to the second problem (Fang, 2014). 
The top speed of the trains, especially Chinese Railway High-speed (CRH) trains, is too low. This would cause a huge loss of the capacity. If the trains were running at the designated speed limit 350km/h instead of 300km/h on Beijing to Shanghai high speed railway, the capacity can be increased by 16%. 
Increasing the speed limit to the designated limit will not affect safety. The main cause of the lowered speed limit was the "723" accident. The Chinese railway bureau believes that trains running too fast could be dangerous. However, according to the accident report, D301 was operating at 99km/h while it collided D3115, which was running at 16km/h due to the malfunctioning signal system. The speeds of both trains were much lower than the top speed, but it could still cause 39 victims. Besides, the result would not be quite different if two trains collides at 300km/h and 350km/h. If lowering the speed limit cannot improve safety, it has no reason at all to be kept. 
Apart from the top speed, the current schedule of trains is not fully using potential capacity. Sometimes trains have to stop at a station for hours for nothing. As a result, passengers have to spend even more time on trains. There are many examples of trains with schedule problems. One of them is train K1246 in Fall 2013. Between Shangrao and Jinhua West station, the train didn't stop at any station to collect or drop passengers. However, it took 3 hours and 46 minutes to drive through this 197km interval. That was an average speed of 52km/h. According to the detailed schedule, this train was supposed to stop at 10 stations, and took a total of over 70 minutes (Shanghai Railway Bureau, 2013). However, from my record on October 7th, 2013, it stopped at none of these 10 stations, and arrived at Jinhua West station 1 hour and 41 minutes earlier than the scheduled time (Cheng, 2013). Clearly all these time could be eliminated. 
However, there will be someone arguing that these additional stop time could be useful if the trains are delayed. The trains can pass these stops and be back to schedule. That's true, and according to my interviewee, the additional stop time appeared on the detailed schedule may be reserved for turning into an actual passenger collect or drop stop. It may also be the time reserved for potential working at night (Fang, 2014). In the case of K1246, though, it matches neither of them. That could possibly be the additional stop time that should be eliminated. 
If these three parts mentioned can be improved, the efficiency of the whole Chinese railway system can be improved significantly, and more passengers can be transported. Although there are more and more trains on new railroads these years, it is still not enough to transport passengers near Chinese New Year. The only way to improve the capacity is by improving the efficiency. Although the Chinese Railway Company believes that the current situation is good, there must be some points to improve. And even after all these parts are improved, the workers have to work more efficiently to match the pace. There is still a long way to go for the Chinese railway system. 
Reference List 
Chinese Railway Company. (2014.07). Equipment Failure Operation, Abnormal Operation Organization, Resque Failure Trains. In Railway Technical Management Regulation (Vol. High-speed Railway, pp. 133-165). Beijing: China Railway Publishing House. 
Shanghai Railway Buerau. (2013.06). Attachment 7: Detailed schedule for trains. In The notification of changing train schedules for July 2013. 
State Council of China. (2011.12). Official Report of the "723" railway accident on Ningbo to Wenzhou South high speed railroad. 
