India will face a 4.5% gap between the supply and demand of electricity in the coming decade and the gap could be as high as 7% if there is high reliance on conventional sources of energy (Krishnaiah). But a developing country like India cannot afford such a gap between the demand and supply. For reducing the gap between the demand and supply and also taking future into prospect, the government should mandate all residential and commercial buildings to operate on at least 10% solar energy. 
India has a growing population and a faster growing real estate sector. If the government mandates at least 10% solar energy on all residential and commercial buildings, solar energy will not only reduce the dependence on conventional sources of energy, but also serve as back up for all those times when there will be no electricity. The government can in turn provide people will tax rebates for their initial expenses on the installation of solar energy. Thus, solar energy can be beneficial to all in both the short and long run. 
Furthermore doing so will be tremendously beneficial for the country and the environment. In recent years many people and countries have criticized India about the high levels of pollution. It will not only be a reply to all those countries but also boost the solar sector of the country. At present, India's solar industry depends on imports of critical raw material and components which a big barrier if the country wants to be completely solar energized. But by mandating solar energy on all buildings (MNRE), the solar sector will get more incentives to produce all the critical components in the country itself for lowering costs and improving efficiency. Moreover, this will encourage more R&D, creating a greater chance for further development of solar energy. Thus, this will reduce the costs of solar energy in the long-term. On the other hand this will have tremendous environmental benefits for the country. It will reduce the reliance on conventional sources of energy thus reducing pollution and paving a path of development for a green India. 
Though solar energy has many benefits, some people may still be against the government mandating 10% solar energy on all residential and commercial buildings. People may argue that not all people and businesses can afford to get 10% electricity from solar as it has high initial costs. While people may argue on that ground a new technology, spray on technology, is going to hit the markets in a few years. This technology seems to have overcome some disadvantages of the current technologies used to produce solar energy. While the new technology has a simple manufacturing process, it saves on material cost by 5% compared to the crystalline technology and 19% compared to the thin film technology (Evans 2013, p.77-79). This technology will significantly reduce the initial costs of installing the solar energy in the next few years, making solar energy more affordable to all. If the government wants to mandate solar energy before the reduction in costs of solar energy, then it can provide subsidies to those who can't afford till there is a change in the technology and the costs come down. 
After looking at the costs and benefits one should definitely favour the government mandating 10% of electricity from solar energy on all residential and commercial buildings. Though it has a few problems, clearly the can be overcome and can benefit the country in the long-term. I personally feel that the government should mandate 10% solar energy on all buildings as it will also force the government to ensure installation of solar in all buildings not only in the urban but also rural areas. One of my distant cousins lives and studies in a village and tells me that sometimes before the exams there is no electricity for most part of the day and he has to study under a candle light at night. There many tens of thousands or probably millions of people who face such problems and mandating solar energy will definitely be a boost for them. It will make the country more productive and efficient and set into on a path to being a developed nation. 
