P4D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
Prosthetics and its Developement 
	With innovation occurring at an unprecedented rate, the world has seen the invention of many different technologies and devises that were once subjects of fictional and sci-fi movies. The virtual display devise that debuted in Star Trek: Deep Space Nine which very closely resembles the recently released Google glass. Similarly, fully functional prostheses that could be controlled by nothing but the wearers mind were devises that we would expect from a Star Wars or Star Trek installment are about to become a reality. With a feeling of dissatisfaction among amputees due to the drawbacks of the prosthetic devises available to them, researchers are trying to invent devices that overcome the shortcomings of the older ones and give the user full function of the prosthetic limb. 
The dissatisfaction is mainly caused because amputees are having to use more energy and effort to complete simple chores in their day to day lives because of the prosthetic limbs that they use. According to Whiteman (2014), "The additional energy and the wear and tear on other parts of the body create a host of medical problems for the amputee." This is mainly observed in patients who have lost a lower limb. They have to spend more energy as compared to an intact person to do simple things, even walk the same distance. This leads to increased pressure applied on the amputee's stump due to his weight and the cup itself due to a host of other problems arise. While this is one major area of development being worked on, another area of development that is a major interest of various research labs is providing the amputee with sensory information from the surroundings and let him control the device with nothing but thoughts just like he would do if he had his natural limb (Whiteman, 2014). 
Providing the amputee with real- time sensory information from the surroundings is not as easy as it may sound as it involves the interception of neurons in the brain that allows the impulses traveling through the neurons to be then processed by the use of computers as told by <name>, Ph D student at the Neuro Prosthesis Research Lab in Purdue University (personal communication, March 29, 2015). The idea of intercepting neurons to receive and send information from the body originated when it was discovered that "neurons were almost like electrical wires" said <name>. The only difference is that electric wires carry electricity in the form of voltages and current while neurons carried information to various parts of the body in the form of impulses. One of the labs that aims to create "realistic robotic arms, legs, and hands that not only move like the real thing but also "feel" sensations like pressure and heat," is the Neurophotonics Research Center which is trying to create a link compatible with living tissue to establish a two way communication between prosthetic limbs and the human nervous system using powerful computer technology and fibers embedded with thousands and hundreds of sensors (Epping, 2010). 
While discussing the topic with a friend of mine, he argued that such developments that involve expensive technology in simple devices such as prosthetic limbs is not worth the effort because it will increase the cost of the device for an average user making it unaffordable for him. I thought this question was an interesting one and when I asked <name> about it, he said "The way I would see it is like using a computer back in 1990s. Since I was born in the 1980s, I didn't see a computer until along time because it was really expensive back then. But now, it has become very affordable to own one" (personal communication, March 29, 2015). This might be the case with prosthetics too. Although at first they may be expensive to own, over time cheaper and efficient methods of manufacturing may make it a very affordable commodity in the market. To help the research in this field, <name> pointed out that there have been enormous funds for this area of research especially from the US Defense to help war veterans cope with lost limbs and other injuries. With development in fields such as design and manufacturing, the production of prosthetics can be made a lot more efficient which could also make the cost effective. One of such manufacturing technologies that may help do this is Rapid Manufacturing. 
Rapid Manufacturing is a process that uses computer aided design to manufacture and construct parts of or the entire prosthesis itself and studies have shown that such advancements positively influence the field of prosthetics. Using the job characteristics model, which evaluates the changes in the skills and job satisfaction of employees due to the application of new technology to traditional manufacturing processes, Wagner et al. (2008) have done a study that has evaluated the effect of introducing Rapid Manufacturing, which fundamentally changes the manufacture of sockets, to the field of prosthetics. Rapid manufacturing (RM) according to Hopkinson et al. 2005 is defined as "the use of a computer aided design (CAD) based automated additive manufacturing process to construct parts," (as cited in Wagner et al., 2008). RM is an emerging technology having significant potential due to its capability of creating cost effective, custom-fit prosthesis' without the use of manual tooling while reducing the time of manufacture. However, the introduction of RM will led to the deskilling of technicians involved in manufacture of prosthesis which leads to highly qualified, skilled staff to seek out opportunities to continue working (p. 6461-6478). 
	To conclude, there has been a lot of research that has gone into creating prosthesis' that not just replace a lost limb of an amputee but also fulfill all of its functions including its sense of touch. With the present scenario concerning the available prosthetic devices, many amputees are not satisfied with what they have available. This shows that there is a lot of development that aims at making prosthetic devices more "lifelike" is required in this field. This is a mutual feeling among many amputees that there is a lot more that can be achieved in the field including creating artificial limbs that can "feel". With the invention of devices that can connect man and machine, many opportunities for their application will open up including letting an amputee control his prosthetic devise with his or her mind. With research labs being able to produce working prototypes of brain- machine technology and the purpose for which this technology will be used, I see a great future for such technologies. With prostheses allowing users to control their artificial limbs with just thoughts, amputees will be able to live their lives with much less burden and more efficiency. 
