Argumentative Paper 
12/3/15 
The Benefits of Mobile Gaming 
	With the advancement of technologies and the popularity of smartphones, mobile games are becoming increasingly relevant to various areas of society. One obvious effect is that playing mobile phone games has become a major way of entertainment for a large number of people nowadays. It is not surprising to find different types of games on people's smartphones. Also, it is common for people to wonder whether mobile phone games are beneficial or not. After gathering information from trustworthy sources and conducting the interview with <name>, I am confident that Mobile phone games are beneficial to people from the perspectives of revolutionizing education, improving human health conditions, and providing feasible solutions to various problems. 
	Despite the many benefits of mobile games, opponents of mobile gaming may argue that mobile games might not be beneficial to people. Interference with schoolwork for students caused by mobile phone addiction is one opposing idea about mobile phone games (Choliz 2010). Also, by comparing traditional education and mobile education, people may wonder why mobile gaming education is better than traditional education. Meanwhile, some people are concerned with the radiation that mobile phones emit and the potential health risks of playing on mobile phones (Smith 2013). Even though there are several opposing ideas, I still strongly believe that mobile games can be essentially beneficial to people. 
	The first opposition that I will address is mobile-phone addiction and its possible interference with school for students (Choliz 2010). During the interview with <name>, we talked about people getting addicted to mobile games. He responded by saying that mobile gaming is just like anything else that people can get addicted to. Especially for children, parents need to be aware of what their kids are doing with mobile games. A study has shown that students are able to achieve better perception of the knowledge and utilize their collaboration skills better by using mobile serious games (S nchez and Olivares 2011). Based on this study, it is quite clear that mobile games do not interfere with students' schoolwork; instead, they actually facilitate students to learn more engagingly. According to <name>, people and especially students can get addicted to essentially anything, not just limited to mobile games. He also mentioned that teachers now are treating mobile phones as distractions. However, <name> thinks that instead of prohibiting the use of mobile phones in class, teachers should encourage students to capitalize the use of mobile devices in a positive manner mainly because learning and receiving new information from mobile devices is something that all students are used to and comfortable of doing nowadays. Instead of interfering with schoolwork, mobile phone games should be able to allow students to better understand the materials and learn more efficiently. Therefore, if everyone can watch out for excessive behavior while others can put restraints on people who are addicted to mobile games in a timely manner, it is possible to minimize the harmful effects of addiction. 
	With more and more computers and tablets available in classrooms throughout the world, mobile education has been playing a significant role in changing the way of education and providing students with more methods for learning. However, people may wonder why education using mobile games can be better than traditional education. There are several aspects of mobile games that make them better than traditional education such as changing people's ways of thinking and motivating learners to learn more. Most supporting evidence of beneficial mobile education also comes from the interview with <name>. According to <name>, mobile-gaming education is beneficial to people because it is capable of combining different areas of studies and changing players' learning structures. <name> provided an example in which surgeons are able to learn different types of new surgeries through playing mobile games. The games help surgeons gather information from various areas to help them gain a more comprehensive understanding of the new types of surgeries. Furthermore, mobile games enable players to learn things in meaningful contexts which give them better understanding of the problems and allow them to develop different problem-solving strategies using newly acquired knowledge from the games. He further elaborated on this point by explaining the term "situated cognition", which states that people can learn better when the problems are introduced in meaningful contexts. One specific example he gave was a game designed to help players practice their mathematical skills in a meaningful context where the players crash into an alien planet and have to use mathematics to calculate their own escape routes. The game provides players opportunities to practice mathematical skills in order to solve specific problems. The benefits of using mobile education can be seen in other areas as well. For instance, a game called "Savannah" is designed to let children explore lion behavior (Facer et al. 2004). Through data analysis for the game, researchers have found that students are more engaged during the learning process and are all experiencing the game instead of merely playing the game (Facer et al. 2004). Another study on students' engagement was conducted using a game called "Frequency 1550" (Akkerman et al. 2009). The result was that students who studied using the game tended to participate more during the process of learning Middle Age history than students who did not play the game. It is clear that mobile-gaming education can better engage students and produce more favorable learning outcomes than traditional education. 
	Furthermore, the potential health risks related to the usage of mobile phones can be oppositions against mobile phone games. According to Smith (2013), there is evidence that mobile phones could be damaging our immune systems, reducing sperm motility and causing tumors, Alzheimer's, strokes and autism. However, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which is responsible for regulating the safety of machines and devices that emit radiation (including cell phones), notes that studies reporting biological changes associated with radiofrequency energy have failed to be replicated and that the majority of human epidemiologic studies have failed to show a relationship between exposure to radiofrequency energy from cell phones and health problems (U.S. Food and Drug Administration 2009). Moreover, mobile phone games do not pose health risk; instead, they can actually improve people's health. For example, in order for children to eat more healthily every day, a virtual pet game is designed for helping players build healthy eating patterns. (Pollak et al. 2010). The essential concept of the game is to let children become more aware of the importance of eating healthily as they prepare healthy meals for their "pets" (Pollak et al. 2010). The game also allows children to customize settings in order to better fit their eating habits and facilitates social interactions by allowing children to play with their peers (Pollak et al. 2010). Mobile games can efficiently help improve health conditions with no known risk to human health. 
	Mobile games prove to have many benefits in a variety of areas. Mobile gaming does not impair learning. In fact, mobile games can help students better understand new knowledge and become more engaged in the learning processes. Furthermore, mobile gaming does not pose any potential health risks. Based on examples in the previous paragraph, mobile gaming can assist people in developing healthier lifestyles. Moreover, mobile education is better than traditional education in many ways such as connecting the virtual world with reality to help players learn more insightfully. Overall, mobile games are significantly beneficial to people and their benefits should be valued in the modern society as game developers create more games that can bring positive effects to the society. 
