Should Purdue use monocoque or not? 
From my interview with the former student in the Formula SAE team. I learnt a very important component called the Monocoque Chassis, which make the racing car better. It has many benefits, so should Purdue Formula SAE team use it or not? Many people think they should use the monocoque chassis because its light weight. But from my research, there is no need for Purdue to use a monocoque chassis in Formula SAE competition. The reasons are because we don't need extra safety, it is hard to do research, and it is hard to manufacture. 
The first reason is the car don't need extra safety component. Formula SAE, unlike other motorsports events, only need drivers to do lap time competition on a very large field. So there is almost no chance that the collision will happen, so we don't need the carbon fiber monocoque to increase the safety of our car. Monocoque structure absorb the impact from the collision by distributing the force on each side of the chassis. The chassis is the hybrid composite of carbon and Kevlar reinforced epoxy, which increase the stiffness 3 times. But in Formula SAE, the car runs not very fast because of the track have lots of corners, and the track do not have long straight. So the speed of the car is on average 35mph. On the other hand, the chassis we now using is called the steel tube chassis. It is designed under the structure tested by the simulation collision computer software. Under this circumstance, even the car lose control, or roll over, the steel tube chassis can protect the driver and the component very well. Monocoque increases the safety by adding more stiffness, but we actually don't need the extra safety. 
The second reason is a carbon-fiber monocoque chassis need lots of knowledge for design. The first monocoque is made of aluminum by Lotus F1 in 1962, and the first carbon fiber monocoque is made by Mc Laren F1 in 1981("monocoque survival cell", 2003) It took 20 years to improve, so it needs many research. I once asked the Chassis team leader in Formula SAE, his answer for this is they don't know how to design a monocoque Chassis, and they can't find people who knows how to do this. Although Carbon fiber is unveiled for decades, it is still considered a new invented material. This is because actually a few amount of people knows how to do with them, so it is still a new technology for most of people. And here in Purdue, we don't have people who already know these knowledge and experiences. It is hard to do the research from the very beginning. 
The last reason is we don't have any place to manufacture a carbon fiber monocoque even if we can design one. And we don't have enough budget. "Mc Laren subcontracted the manufacture of this first model to Hercules Aerospace in the US to create the tub with a mould" ("monocoque survival cell", 2003). To make a carbon fiber monocoque, the equipment need is almost identical to making a spacecraft. "The sandwich is made of two carbon layers and aluminum honeycomb plates. Gains its rigidity though heating under pressure."("Design, Analysis, and Simulation of an Automotive Carbon Fiber Monocoque Chassis" Jingsi Wu, Cornell University) So it is hard to manufacture. We don't have the budget to buy that expensive equipment. 
One counterargument for using the monocoque is carbon fiber monocoque is light weight. According to the data, carbon is 1/10 the weight of the steel. But some times light weight is not a good idea for a small car like our formula SAE car. Slightly higher weight will create more gravitational force to stick the car to the ground, which will increase the handling in the corner. So we could use a steel chassis in the Formula SAE to challenge the carbon fiber chassis. 
In conclusion, it's reasonable for Purdue formula SAE team not to use a monocoque chassis on their race car on the perspective of safety, design, and manufacture. Although it has some benefits, it also has many cons which the team are not able to handle. 
Reference 
"Monocoque-Survival Cell" formula1-dictionary.net. 
"Design, Analysis, and Simulation of an Automotive Carbon Fiber Monocoque Chassis" Jingsi Wu, Cornell University. 
"Carbon Fibre Monocoque Chassis Feasibility and Manufacturability for FSAE" John Christensen, Curtin University" 
