The Inefficiency of the Authority on Food Safety Problems 
China has been suffering serious food safety problems for several years. Accidents about food safety happen almost every day. People become concerned about the living condition they are currently in so they choose to turn to the authorities for help. Many people believe that the food department in China has enough authority on food safety problems. Liu 2012 thought that no one can live healthily by eating harmful food. The top priority for the food department now is to deal with food safety problems professionally pp. 18-19. However, I do not think the Chinese food department is able to manage these problems efficiently in the short-term. Several facts indicate that Chinese food authorities are in a bottleneck situation of solving food safety problems. 
The most serious defect is corruption. The Chinese food department invests billions of RMB every year to rebuild food factories with unqualified processing conditions, especially for those old factories which are located in rural areas. It seems like this measure beneficially aims to improve food quality and people's health. Nevertheless, according to Yu 2015, people who know this investment in some of those areas reports that the factories there have never received the money pp. 3-5. The poor conditions of food processing has never changed. After long-term investigation, it finally comes out that this money is not appropriately distributed and used by department officials. Some greedy officials secretly use the money to purchase expensive houses and cars for themselves. They even consume high quality food with their families in luxury restaurants with the money. The fact is, the money from the food department has been spent, but the poor processing condition in the factories has never not been improved. Although a large amount of money is distributed to deal with food safety problems every year, it is corruption that always leads to the failure. 
On the other hand, the Chinese food supervision department does not have the right to force every single person to learn basic knowledge about food issues. Nevertheless, the food safety problems in China are mainly caused by the lack of knowledge about hygiene and contamination. An American reporter Huehnergarth 2014, who has been living in China for 15 years, once stated that food factories prefer to employ workers who have less knowledge because they are considered cheap labor pp. 7-8. Many of those workers even do not successfully graduate from primary school. It's difficult for the food department to spread knowledge of food safety problems for everyone due to an extremely large population in China. Although the food department has already suggested that classes about introducing the importance of food safety should be added into students' schedules in high schools and universities, these necessary classes are easily underestimated by students and teachers. Because these classes are an elective, teachers and parents think the students are supposed to mainly focus on academic studying. In other words, the resources for education offered by the food department on food issues is neglected by people to a large extent, and people are always thinking the food safety issues are none of their business. It's really necessary for the authorities to claim the importance of obtaining knowledge about food issues. Some mandatory measures should be taken in advance. Whether to learn or not all depends on every individual. There is no way to improve the current situation unless the awareness to citizens is being raised. This is the hardest part that the food department cannot have access to. 
Moreover, the food department in China today sometimes conceals the facts of some serious food safety accidents. The reason why it decides to do this is to calm people down. They think the public does not have to know all the details. However, once they know how many people died in an accident or how serious the accident was, the whole society will be placed into a nervous phenomenon. To some extent, I do not think it's a bad measure. But it will be harmful to conceal the fact because people will easily neglect the dangers around them if an accident takes place again and they do not have any solution. The more wonderful the utopia the authority makes for the public, the more dangerous situation the public will be in. People have the right to get access to the truth. For food issues, there are still many inside stories that the public does not know. They will never start to pay more attention on protecting themselves if they do not learn anything from others' experiences. Not being honest is another reason why the Chinese authorities cannot deal with the food safety problems efficiently. 
Although the Chinese food department has taken every effort to deal with the serious food safety problems, things are still out of control. There are many disadvantages existing. That is why I do not think the authorities can deal with the food safety problems efficiently. On the contrary, a successful supervision department is supposed to avoid corruption and dishonesty. Now that food issues are such important topics in people's daily lives, more attention and measures are required. The Chinese food department and the officials should improve their attitude toward serious food safety problems and any other issues to make a better life for the citizens. 
