Argumentative 
11 Dec. 2015 
No Salary for College Athletes 
National Collegiate Athletic Association(NCAA) student athletes should not be paid because they already have many advantages from their schools. College Athletes should not get paid because student athletes in colleges already take a lot of advantages from their schools, such as academic tutors, full tuition, and facilities. In this paper I am going to talk about the reason why student athletes should get paid, and some oppositions that disagree with the thesis. Some people believe that college athletes do not receive advantages from colleges, but student athletes take many benefits from their schools. Since colleges already give many advantages to athletes, they should not be paid. Colleges offer academic supports, scholarships, and better environments for them. 
This paragraph is about opposing my thesis, and I am going to talk about why college athletes should get paid. Non-athletes can have same benefits as athletes get, and athletes put a lot of effort to earn certain benefits. Non student athletes can get those advantages from their universities. Student athletes spend a lot of time focusing on sports, so people cannot say that they are actually getting benefits from school. Student athletes should get paid because they do not get many benefits from their schools. People say that student athletes get a lot of benefits from school since they are athletes, but they did not get many of advantages because they put a lot of effort and time on sports. They are actually spending time to earn these benefits. Even though student athletes are getting quite a bit advantages, regular students can also get same advantages as athletes get. Therefore, athletes do not get lots of profits from school, but they spend a lot of time on practicing and playing games. 
Some people say that athletes do not get many benefits from colleges, but they actually get academic supports from schools. Student athletes are getting a lot of academic support from school to make up their work. Athletes will have to study hard and need some help from the university itself because they miss out classes a lot of time, and schools try to help them with tutors and professors. Athletes do not have to worry about any missing homework and lectures since colleges cover up for them. Schools are helping athletes to study because they miss out a lot of school works if they have games and travels. Therefore, schools try to help athletes make up their homework and lectures. If athletes do not have the school's support, they would have a hard time graduating. Purdue University offers academic tutors because it wants its athletes to be successful, and they also give a lot of support for them. Purdue lets the athletes miss out on classes and quizzes if there are at games and practices. However, Purdue makes them make up all the work with tutors and their professors, so they can catch up their classes. Morgan Burke, who is the head of athletic department, said that college athletes get more helps compared to regular students. Regular students usually can get a tutoring from graduate teachers, but student athletes get academic supports from professional tutors and professors. Purdue helps student athletes to get good grades. Athletes get a lot of advantages for being athletes, and they do not need to get paid since they are already getting benefits from colleges. They are getting academic support from schools. 
Student athletes are getting financial aid when they are getting academic supports. College athletes get helps from school to pay off their tuitions. Student athletes are getting a lot of helps for financial work because colleges like to pay and help them to pay their tuitions without having problems. Colleges want to make sure that athletes can pay their tuitions because college athletes cannot work during school week because they have to study and practice for their team. Therefore, colleges usually help them to pay their tuitions for free. Colleges usually pay full tuitions for most of players because they are deserved to get paid that much since they put lots of efforts for sports. Purdue University pays 60,000 dollars per athletes just for the tuition because Purdue thinks that supporting athlete's financial things is one of the most important jobs for them. Purdue athletic department spends most of their money for students because their motto is supporting their students to be succeed in the future. Therefore, Purdue hires a lot of good academic tutors for athletes, so they can get good grades even though they have a lot of things to do with practicing and playing games. Student athletes do not have to work and get student loan because colleges would like to pay for their most of tuition. If they get salaries from school, they have to pay for tax and everything else. Therefore, paying for athletes would not be worth it since they have to deal with money, and they would not have time to do that. In my opinion, student athletes should not be paid, and they should just get paid as tuition, and other things that athletes want. 
Schools spend a lot of money on facilities so that student athletes can work out and train at the better place. Colleges try to build better and more facilities for athletes, so athletes can focus on their training and practice. Athletes can focus on working out if they have nice facilities because they can get best helps and services from school. Schools, which have nice facilities, usually have good training program for students. School athletic department usually do not take a lot of money from school compare to academic departments. However, they spend a lot of money for athletes and other students because they have to manage gyms for non-athletic students, and other gyms for athletes. Athletes also get trained by their own personal trainer. Colleges build brand new gymnasium for athletes because they need better facilities and work out environment so that they can train in better places. If they had bad quality of facilities, they would not like to work out and practice such as crappy field and dirty swimming pool. Colleges also have personal trainers for athletes, so athletes can make their bodies in perfect condition. Athlete's meals are different from non-athlete students because schools make them eat healthy, so they can stay in healthy and perfect body condition. Therefore, colleges have expert nutritionist just for athletes. Athletes take many profits from colleges for free. College athletes are getting enough benefits from their schools because every facilities and programs are free for them. If they got paid from colleges, they would have to pay for everything. If they paid everything, they would have many advantages since they would pay all the money for facilities. In my opinion, athletes are getting enough advantages, so they should not complain about getting paid. Therefore, college athletes should not get paid. 
College Athletes get a lot of advantages compared to regular students. College students spend their time on practicing and playing games, and they need to study. Athletes work hard and study hard because if they want to get advantages from their schools. Student athletes do not have to worry about missing lectures and quizzes since schools take care of it. Most of college athletes get full tuition from schools, and they sometimes get extra money. Colleges build amazing facilities for them, and athletes can use them all for free. If athletes get paid money instead of getting benefits from colleges, they will not have many advantages since they have to pay for everything that they use and tax. When I was writing about this essay, I had a hard time to find resources because this topic is not an objective topic. This topic does not have a right answer because everyone has different opinions about this topic. In my opinion, NCAA should make the rule that is about paying for college athletes is illegal. I personally think that student athletes should not get paid because they are already getting so many benefits from colleges. In the beginning of semester, I thought college athletes should get paid, but I changed my mind when I talked with Morgan Burke, who is the vice president of Purdue and the head of athletic department. I wish NCAA league can improve by solving this issue, and athletes can just focus on their works. 
