P5d1 
Argumentative Writing Assignment 
Every college student deserve an amazing and meaningful college life. Life in college consists of many appealing parts, including courses, homework, social networking activities, personal relationships, food, and so on. Although food is very important in everyone's daily life, sometimes it may have higher potential to be neglected when comparing to other college activities. Food serves as sources of energy, and unsuspiciously, good food can make people in a good mood. The university dining court is one of the most important parts of students' college life. Nowadays, there are some debates about the necessity of providing Chinese food at Purdue University dining court. Some people argue that it is not necessary for Purdue providing Chinese food at the university dining court, while others state that Chinese food should be provided. In my personal opinion, I hold the view that Purdue should definitely provide Chinese food at university dining court. In the following part of this paper, three evidences are provided to support my point of view, which include the increasing international students and scholars' enrollment at Purdue, the popularity of Chinese food among Americans and the importance of food diversity in university dining court, as well as the Chinese food's nutrition. 
First of all, the increasing amount of international students and scholars especially Chinese students and scholars shows the increasing needs for Chinese food. 
Fig. 1 Purdue university ten years enrollment trends of international students 
Figure 2 the top ten places of origin of international students enrolled in fall 2014 
Source: Purdue ISS Enrollment & Statistical Report, fall 2014. 
According to Purdue University international students and scholars (ISS) enrollment & statistical report in fall 2014 (Purdue ISS Enrollment & Statistical Report, fall 2014), Purdue University's total international student enrollment ranked 2nd among U.S. public institutions and there were a total of 9080 students from abroad. The international student body comprised 23.4% of the total number of enrolled students and students from China (the total number was 4617) ranked first in total international enrollment. Two figures are provided in order to provide a more clear view about the enrollment trend of international student. Figure 1 is Purdue University ten-year enrollment trends of international students, which has a very clear increasing trends especially for undergraduate students. Figure 2 is the top ten places of origin of international students enrolled in fall 2014, which illustrates that students from China account for 51% of total enrolled international students. Based on those enrollment and statistical information, we can state that there are increasing Chinese food demand at Purdue University. There is no reason for Purdue University dining court not to provide Chinese food based on such big increasing population of Chinese students on campus each year. 
Secondly, not only Chinese students like to eat Chinese food, but also American students welcome the Chinese cuisine. According to Chen's book about the story of Chinese food in America (Chen, 2014), it says that American diners began to flock to Chinese restaurants more than a century ago, making Chinese food the first mass-consumed cuisine in the United States. Besides, by 1980, Chinese food had become the country's most popular ethnic cuisine. These information can provide evidences that serving Chinese food at Purdue dining court not only benefit the Chinese students, but also can satisfy the taste of American students. Moreover, food diversity is a very important concept at university dining court, which also corresponds to Purdue's great attention on diversity. Serving Chinese food at Purdue dining court is a win-win strategy. On one side, it fulfills students' needs for Chinese food and they are willing to pay more money on their meal plan, which can increase the university income. On the other side, food diversity can support the culture diversity of university, and gain good reputation for Purdue that will attract more potential students in the future. 
Last but not the least, Chinese food can fulfill nutrition requirements since it use many nutritive ingredients, including vegetables, meat, bean product, and so on. In term of Chinese vegetables, Wills' (Wills, et. al, 1984) study about the nutrient composition of 15 types of Chinese vegetables, including Chinese chives, Chinese spinach, Chinese white cabbage, mustard cabbage, Chinese flowering cabbage, Chinese cabbage, garland chrysanthemum, water spinach, watercress, hairy melon, wax gourd, angled luffa, bitter melon, bean sprouts, and yard-long beans, firstly presented comprehensive data for Chinese vegetables about the values of dietary fiber, individual sugars, starch, organic acids, magnesium, and zinc. According to the conclusion of this article, many Chinese vegetables can be considered as useful sources of various nutrients, and vitamin C was presented in all vegetables at nutritionally significant levels. 
In summary, Chinese food should be provided at Purdue University dining court mainly due to three reasons. The first one is the increasing Chinese food needs of increasing population of international students and scholars, especially Chinese students and scholars at Purdue. The second one is that Chinese food also gain popularities among American students and serving Chinese food can help to increasing the food diversity at Purdue University dining court. The third one is that Chinese food use many nutritive ingredients that can support the nutrition requirement. In addition, I suggest that Purdue dining court may consider to offer two types of Chinese food including authentic Chinese food and American style Chinese food to fulfill the different taste demand for different group of students. 
