The Computer Technology in College 
The purpose of education is to help build students' abilities, and find a better future. In order to achieve that, people should have more effective quality of teaching between teachers and students in and out of the classroom; they should use technologies in higher education more often. 
Using the technologies in the classroom like Power Point helps teachers give students exact information when sometimes it is difficult to explain it orally, and it makes easier for students to understand the material. According to Craig Lambert, "[Teachers] post [notes] on the course website the night before their section meets, view each other's work, then discuss the videos and podcasts in sections. (The final course project can be a written term paper, a video, a podcast, or a Power Point-style presentation)." (2009) This shows that teachers nowadays use the technologies to have more effective teaching quality. By using the Power Point, teachers can put up pictures or even videos on the Power Point to enhance the lectures. For example, my high school biology teacher always uses Power Point for every single class. It helped us to understand those abstract concepts of biology. My teacher put up many pictures on Power Point since sometimes it is hard to explain the material on the textbook only by words. I remember when she put up the picture of a cell that shows every layer of a plant cell and animal cell. She explained the differences between animal cells and plant cells. It does not only give teacher an easier way to do the job, but also provides students a clearer way of understanding. 
Secondly, we cannot deny the fact that most people do actually choose to use the technologies during teaching and learning. According to the article that Craig Lambert wrote, "The old-style classroom, grounded in spoken lectures and reading lists, is becoming obsolete. Images now dominate a new style of teaching in which visual, audio, and interactive formats rule, often trumping words as the dominant means of communication." Yes, this is true. In the higher education, students nowadays can submit their homework online, and they can even take online courses to receive credits. And it seems the teachers who use the technologies like power point is easier to get the students' attention. Some old style way of teaching, which is just talking and giving a lecture to all the students, is a little boring compared to the modern style way of teaching? Since the teachers can grab more attention from the students, the students can gain more knowledge from it. Therefore, it creates more effective quality of the education. 
	Some of the educators might think that classroom technologies bring disadvantages. Craig Lambert once wrote, "For example, the density of content that a tool like Power Point.makes possible can overwhelm an audience. "A scientist at a blackboard is always writing things down at a pace the students can take notes on and understand."(2009) The situation that students are having trouble might be the students are not able to decide what kind of information on the slides is important. So students should build a stronger ability of deciding what kind of information should be taken as notes. And some schools do teach the students how to take notes efficiently before they can. In fact, the idea of using Power Point and slides is to provide an easier way of learning. 
Another issue people often find about the classroom technologies is cheating. According to the interview with Ren Li, he stated: "The single largest drawback is probably the increased instances of cheating, or perhaps more appropriately, the increased ability for students to cheat." Yes, it is kind of a big case here in education. But does education provide students chances to let them cheat? No, it is the person who chooses to cheat, not those technologies make them cheat. People cannot blame this onto the technologies. The technologies we are using in the classroom are important and cannot be ignored and replaced. However, we can improve this by using more technologies, such as blocking the access to some other non-academic related websites during lectures. There is always some way to prevent this. 
Think about one day we could not use the technologies anymore. That would really bring us disadvantages and inconvenience. Besides, people nowadays are using so many technologies already. As long as people are using them properly, there will be advancement. 
