Stop Illegal Downloading 
With the development of technology, downloading online becomes a new and convenient way to get the resources, such as music, books, and games. In China, downloading is familiar to most people since it takes place in their lives. According to my observation, most of downloading behaviors in China are illegal. Chinese people always seek to download free resources without thinking about whether their behaviors are legal or illegal. When it comes to the issue whether Chinese people should stop illegal downloading, different people hold different opinions. For instance, Peisen Li, the president of Chengtian Entertainment company ( ), pointed out that Chinese people should stop illegal downloading as soon as possible because it has caused a large amount of money loss (Huang, 2009), while Shanbo Luo, an editor of PConline ( ), held the opposite viewpoint that Chinese people need not stop it since illegal downloading also has some benefits (Luo, 2008). As far as I am concerned, I agree with the former that Chinese should stop illegal downloading for the following reasons. 
Illegal Downloading Is Not in Accordance with Relevant Laws 
From the juristical perspective, a few Chinese laws disallow people to download illegal sources, or to share these sources on the Internet ("the Copyright Law of China", 2010). In addition, some websites that provide P2P downloading services are also illegal since they provide illegal sources for the public to download without gaining the permission from the producers. The owners of these websites should delete these illegal materials, and compensate the creators of these sources. 
A piece of evidence which shows illegal downloading is not allowed in laws is that the Chinese authorities has cracked down video P2P websites that offer illegal free downloading videos since the second half of 2013 ("Top 10 Cases", 2014). The most representative law case is that two famous video P2P websites, Qvod Player ( ) and BDHD ( ), were investigated, sued and punished by the National Copyright Administration of the People's Republic of China at the beginning of this anti-illegal-downloading campaign. According to the Copyright Law of China and the regulations for the implementation of the Copyright Law, these two websites should delete all infringed video sources, and were fined 250,000 RMB respectively ("Top 10 Cases", 2014). 
Illegal Downloading Threatens Internet Security 
Illegal downloading threatens Internet security since some illegal materials on the Internet might include some computer virus and trojan virus. As mentioned by Mr. Qiu, an expert dealing with illegal downloading lawsuits, once people download the materials with viruses, their computers might crash down, and the leakage of personal information might occur as the infected computers can be controlled by crackers (personal communication, October 12, 2014 ). 
To take my personal experience as an example, when I was in China two years ago, I wanted to download a movie called "The Avengers" since I really liked the leading actor, Robert Downey Jr., and I was not able to watch it in cinema. My friend introduced me to a website where I could download it without any payment. After downloading it, I had assumed I would start to enjoy the movie. However, when I opened the file, I found that my laptop was out of control with numerous webpages popping out continuously. When I clicked my mouse, it did not work at all. Finally, the computer went down, and I could never turn it back on. I was very anxious because there were a lot of important learning materials and photos that did not have any backup copies. Even though I immediately took my laptop to a computer technician, my laptop could not be fixed because of virus, and all the data were gone without any chances of restoration. From this experience, I realized how illegal downloading is inadvisable since it threatens Internet security seriously. 
Illegal Download Is Harmful to Originality and Creativity. 
It is not a secret that originality and creativity are the imperatives for every industry in the society. However, illegal downloading impedes industries in this respect. As it was explained by Mr. Qiu in my interview, the creators and owners of the art works are disappointed and demotivated since illegal downloading made it impossible for them to obtain the incomes derived from the sales of their art works (personal communication, October 12, 2014 ). 
A good example is the shrinking of Chinese game industry. Since illegal downloading is rampant in China now, it is hardly possible for Chinese game companies to profit from selling games. What's worse, these game companies even cannot cover their costs of producing games ("Chinese Game Market", 2014). Therefore, it is likely that Chinese game companies will produce fewer and fewer new works, which means originality and creativity will be hindered in the gaming industry in China. 
Despite of the benefits of illegal downloading, for instance, helping creators transmit their works, I still deem that Chinese people should stop this behavior since illegal downloading violates the laws, poses threats to Internet security, and harms originality and creativity in many industries. In order to eliminate illegal downloading in China, much work should be done from different perspectives in the future. Chinese government could employ companies or organizations to monitor the websites. In terms of society, media and some social campaigns can encourage people to download legally. As for individuals, every person should abide by the laws, and does not download things from illegal sources. 
