How Mobile Phones Influence Sleep
	Most people think the mobile phone does not influence people's sleep or not that much, and they always put the cell phone under their pillows or on the bed when they fall asleep. As far as I worked in the program "How Mobile Phones Influence Sleep", I consider using the mobile phone before sleeping do not only influence people's sleep, but also in a negative way. According to Thom e S, H renstam A, & Hagberg M, (2011), Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults--a prospective cohort study, the result of this research article shows there is an exact link between mobile phone and quality of sleep from young adults, and mobile phones affect young adults' sleep in a negative way.
	Doctor <name> (majored in the medical technology at <place> University, got a master's degree, the chief physician in Neurology Department) states the mobile phone could influence people's sleep and points out the scientifical ways of how the mobile phone impacts people's sleep. Firstly, the blue light from the screen of the phone could prohibit the content of the hormone melatonin, which could be increased by people's sleeping. Secondly, there is too much information (words, pictures, and other thoughts) will be inputted by using the mobile phone, and this information will stimulate in people's brain which is an adverse reaction to sleep well. Thirdly, using the mobile phone before sleeping could form a poorly conditioned reflex with people's sleeping habit and bed.
	There is an interesting research I read when I worked on the synthesis paper of the program. Fossum I N, Nordnes L T, Storemark S S, Bjorvatn B, & Pallesen S, (2014), The Association Between Use of Electronic Media in Bed Before Going to Sleep and Insomnia Symptoms, Daytime Sleepiness, Morningness, and Chronotype, Behavioral Sleep Medicine, points out that using the mobile phone before falling asleep could cause some symptoms affect people's sleep in a bad way. The research found a sample of 532 students between the ages of 18 and 39 at the University of Bergen to do research, which includes how the mobile phone associated with the insomnia symptoms, daytime sleepiness, etc. The first result of the research shows that using mobile phones to text, surf, and play before going to the bed could be linked with the relatively late chronotype. The second result of the research indicates that people who have access to the mobile phone will not be energetic in the morning, compared with the people who limits to use the mobile phone. The third result of the research states that the phase delay of circadian rhythm could be attracted if using the mobile phone excessively before going to sleep. It is not hard to see in the research, using the mobile phone before falling asleep could cause the relatively late chronotype, and if people who use the mobile phone excessively, they will not be energetic on the morning and also may have the phase delay of circadian rhythm, which related to our sleep and causes a negative way in quality of sleep apparently.
	There is a detailed research, Sah n S, Ozdemir K, Unsal A, & Temiz N, (2013), Evaluation of mobile phone addiction level and sleep quality in university students, focuses on the relationship between the addiction level of the mobile phone and University students' quality of sleep, and states the people who have the higher addiction level of the mobile phone, will have worsened sleep quality. There are 576 students (296 females and 208 males) from Sakarya University are included in the research. In the research, they evaluate the addiction level of the mobile phone with the Problematic Mobile Phone Use Scale, which has 27 questions and the scores of the scale could be varied between 27 and 135. The higher scores in the Problematic Mobile Phone Use Scale indicates the higher addiction level of the mobile phone. They evaluate the sleep quality with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, which consists of open-ended question and multiple-choice questions (answer as very good, fairly good, fairly bad, or very bad). The 0 to 3 points will be given based on each question, and the higher scores denote the poorer quality of sleep. The result of the research shows people who have the higher addiction level of the mobile phone, will have worsened sleep quality.
	In conclusion, using the mobile phone before sleeping influences people's sleep in a bad way. If people continue using the mobile phone before sleeping, there will be some symptoms appeared and these symptoms are harmful to the quality of sleep. Furthermore, there are many people noticed that the bad side of the mobile phone caused on their sleeps and they did not use their mobile phone before sleeping, in order to have sleep with the good quality. From my perspective, using the mobile phone before sleeping is bad for your sleep.
Citation
1. Thom e, S., H renstam, A., & Hagberg, M. (2011). Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults-a prospective cohort study. BMC public health, 11(1), 1.
2. <name> <name> (personal communication, March 7, 2016).
3. Thom e, S., H renstam, A., & Hagberg, M. (2011). Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults-a prospective cohort study. BMC public health, 11(1), 1.
4. Thom e, S., H renstam, A., & Hagberg, M. (2011). Mobile phone use and stress, sleep disturbances, and symptoms of depression among young adults-a prospective cohort study. BMC public health, 11(1), 1.
2
