P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Speaking is a crucial part of learning a language, especially for Chinese students who are currently study English, because the pronouncing ways of English and Chinese share lots of differences. Thus, some people believe that Chinese students should pay more attention on speaking to improve their English level. But others held the opposite idea that Chinese students should treat the four parts equally. Both sides have their strong supports to sustain their ideas. From my humble opinion, I believe Chinese students should pay more attention on speaking. 
The most obvious reason is speaking is the very core of the communication. In the tribal age, people could fit their basic communication needs without literacy. It is means that people could live without writing and reading with basic live level. And speaking always related with listening, sometime a good speaking is the guarantee of good listening. The ultimate goal for Chinese student learning English is maintaining a basic skill to live and study in an English-speaking environment. To achieve this goal, Chinese should pay most of their attention on the most essential part of a language. And the speaking is that part; Chinese student should pay more attention on this part to maintain better efficiency. 
Beyond that, there lied a great potential problem which is seriously limited the improvement of Chinese students learning English. That is the comfort zone of Chinese student. Everyone like to speak the language they could already use very well, it is a kind of human nature. So do most of Chinese students, they like to speak Chinese even though they current live in an English environment. They like to hang out with the friends from same country, use same language. They speak Chinese in the most occasions which are not necessary to speak English; they only have limited time to use English in the classes which is not enough to be a master of English. And this situation is quite similar with the very beginning of their experience of English. In China, Chinese students lived in a Chinese-using environment; they only speak English in the class. The limited time using English limited the development of their English. So Chinese students could do well in reading and writing, because the grammar and vocabulary could be improve by themselves with long time efforts. But the speaking is a totally different story, to improve the speaking skills, people need to immerge in an English-speaking environment and practice in their daily life. That is the common problem of most Chinese student first time lived in English environment. To solve this problem, Chinese students need to make some native students, pay attention on their prosody and how they use idioms and slangs. Or study carefully on the TV shows and movies; take notes on the new words and phrases. Those would incredible improve their English using skill. 
However, some would say Chinese students are not very good at grammar, reading and writing. They just do a fine job; they still need to improve them. There lied lots of problem in their practice, grammar mistakes, the different tradition between English articles and Chinese articles. I could not deny that, but that is not they reason that Chinese have no need to pay more attention on the most difficult part. Because language learning is a complex process, all the part of the English learning twisted together. In some cases practice speaking would bring a great help on other three parts. Speaking to people, let they understand your idea, need a clear logical process which is crucial for writing, every time Chinese student speak English, they practice their English logic. That would be really helpful for writing. Listening is a more obvious example, only the people who could repeat the word in a right way can catch the meaning of the words well. But writing and reading would not help people maintain a good pronunciation 
In conclusion, speaking might be the toughest challenge face by Chinese students. In order to come over it, they need to dedicate more time and endeavoring. And they indeed should get the shadow and leisure of old days away to accept the new inspiration. To achieve this goal, Chinese students need good a strategy, consider all the situation, we indeed should regard speaking as the top priority to improve. I strongly believe that would be really useful for Chinese students to adopt the daily and academic life in the English-speaking environments. 
