Argumentative paper, Draft 3 
4/23/2016 
The Help of Energy Recycling 
	Pollution has always been a problem in the world since we started to use non-renewable sources. Pollution can harm the health of people and change the climate, so people found out many ways to decrease the amount of pollution in the world and save non-renewable sources. The main way we can decrease pollution is to recycle. One way is to recycle all renewable things including cardboard and plastic. The other way is to recycle wasted materials into clean power and heat, which is called energy recycling. People believe that recycling is the best way to decrease pollution; so many places encourage the movement of recycling. However, recycling is not as efficient as people thought. Energy recycling is not widely known by people, and, because of the huge cost of it, it is not widely accepted. In fact, if energy recycling were done incorrectly it would increase pollution instead (K. Cherkauer, Personal Communication, March 4 2016), so energy recycling would not help to decrease pollution overall. 
	Statistics shows that by energy recycling, billions of dollars would be saved by generating heat and energy more efficiently (Facts About Recycling Energy, 2016). However, the cost of energy recycling is huge, so it is not beneficial enough for people to set the industries up. Just think about the money that cost to recycle heat. It is necessary to set up the pipes and pipe the steam or hot water to thermal users, and it takes seven more times energy to move a unit of electricity than to move a unit of fuel and it takes seven more times energy to move a unit of thermal energy than to move a unit of electricity (Casten, 2003). So, it takes forty-nine times more energy to move thermal energy from a point to another than to move fuel (Casten, 2003). For new transmission and distribution line, the price for capacity now is $2500/k W, which is really high to afford (Casten, 2003). From this, we can see the cost of recycling energy and sending it to the thermal users would be huge. Due to the high cost, many businessmen would not choose to set an industry up to recycle energy at the first place, which means there would not be many industries to recycle wasted energy to reduce pollution. Also, extracting none-renewable sources would increase the pollution in the world, but the locations that do energy recycling is too few. The help on decreasing pollution through energy recycling would not match up with the pollution that people creates everyday, which would not decrease the amount of pollution overall. The huge cost of energy recycling makes many recycling centers hard to afford, thus energy recycling is not the best way to decrease pollution. 
	People would say that the data online shows the amount of pollution has decreased because of many places are putting more effort into recycling. "Making recycled paper creates 74 percent less air pollution and 35 percent less water pollution than making paper directly from trees (Weber, 2016)," this also shows that recycling do help a lot with decreasing pollution. That must mean that recycling helps to decrease pollution. However, there are more places that are continuously sending pollution into the world. The companies dump wasted water into the ocean, and burying, burning garbage happen all the time. All these happen every minute at many places in the world, which would increase the amount of pollution in the world. "Over the last 50 years, the Yangtze has experienced a 73% increase in pollution levels (Mekonnen, Hoekstra, 2015)," this is a sad truth that the pollution is still increasing at many places. In addition, many companies use large amount of non-renewable sources to produce energies for people, like burning coals for heat. Also, there are many incorrect ways to recycle energy like burning garbage, which would increase the amount of pollution instead of decrease pollution (K. Cherkauer, Personal Communication, March 4, 2016). Many countries still develop the non-renewable resources to make a profit from it, like digging oils for cars and other transportations to use. The small number of industries and the huge cost of energy recycling make the process of decreasing pollution much harder than what most people thought. Due to all these reasons, it is really hard for energy recycling to make real progress on decreasing pollution. Even if energy recycling were done correctly, like industries recycle their wasted materials to reuse, this would not always be the best option for people to use to decrease pollution due to the cost and low efficiency. 
	Many countries now are trying to set new laws up to make sure that companies would reuse their wastes to save more energy and decrease the amount of waste that they produce. Almost every industry would have wastes and heavy industries have more recyclable wastes. It would save a lot more energy and prevent more pollution if all the industries reuse their wasted materials. However, industries do not want to deal with the waste; instead, they just dump them. According to Levanen (2015), "The question is important for industry because companies can do business with by-products whereas waste management only causes extra costs for them." In fact, dealing with waste cannot bring any profit to the industry, so it is not easy to set a law up because the government need to make sure the industries have enough money to keep going. Even though the law is set up, the system, which determines how to use all the wasted materials, can only be determined through experiments and tests. This would cost plenty of time, and the regulation must be changed (Levanen, 2015). All these concerns are not easy to deal with, so there is still a long way to go if the government wants to set a law up for recycling wasted materials. 
	To conclude, we can see it is not easy to set up an industry for energy recycling from the information above, and it is not easy to have most industries to reuse their wasted materials. Additionally, because of the huge cost of recycling, the part of pollution that has been decreased would not match the pollution that human release everyday. So, the energy recycling we have been doing is not enough to decrease the pollution we have overall. It is necessary to have better ways of decreasing pollution developed, so we can have clean air to breath every day. 
