P5D3 Argumentative Essay	 
April 26, 2015	 
	Effects of Video Games on Student's Academic Behavior 
	Video games have been played for over a decade now but gamers have not truly understand the effects of playing it over time. It has been more than a decade too that people had and are still misinterpreting that playing video games makes one lazier and behaving in such a way that people regard gamers as immature and unwise. However, there have been many research and studies about video games and their effects with mixed conclusion and different opinions rise here and there. Nonetheless, there are positive effects of playing video games like improvement in both physical and mental of gamers. Hence, people should start playing video games at a young age so that they can develop the necessary skills in learning and academic behaviors. 
	There are many studies regarding the effects of playing video games even in Purdue University. Research conducted by <Name>, a professor here in Purdue, has shown that the process of acquiring knowledge and understanding is sped up by playing video games (<Name>, personal communication, March 29, 2015). In other words, students improve their cognitive and perceptive skills which are very useful in subjects such as Mathematics and Science. Who would have thought video games which are completely unrelated to studying could make a huge impact in the field of education? The current research of Dr. Watson is about incorporating video games as platforms or tools in educating students. In this way, students can learn while having a fun time playing video games which makes playing them something worthwhile during their free time. Another research by neuroscientist Lauren Sergio of York University in Toronto also show the comparable results when comparing the process of information processing of gamers and non-gamers (as cited by Trudeau, 2010). Therefore, parents should discard their mindset of video games not having any educational value, and should just let their kids play video games. 
	Video games come in many types and genre and each one can have different effects from one another be it physical or mental. Research by Dr. <Name> shows that playing video games especially challenging ones can improve their gaming and real-world skills which are not only useful in learning but also in daily activities (<Name>, personal communication, March 29, 2015). He gave an example of person shooter games where one have to make precise and quick judgement to achieve success in-game. Besides that, Professor Daphne Bavalier from University of Rochester studied the effects of video games specifically action games (as cited by Trudeau, 2010). Based on her results, video gamers developed both their gaming skills and real-world skills like vision, attention and cognition. Basically, there are major improvements if someone took up gaming. It is highly unlikely that playing video games can worsen the mental activity of the gamer. Henceforth, people should take up gaming because of the many benefits they could bring while spending free time enjoying playing video games. 
	Life as a gamer can be interpreted in many ways; one can see it as having no social life and devoting their whole time to playing video games, while the gamer themselves might see it as socializing with other gamers online. According to Douglas Quan, video games, specifically cooperative video games, improve social behavior (as cited by Trudeau, 2010). I understand when people say they start making friends through the cyber space maybe because of shyness; I too made friends the same way. Besides that, playing online cooperative video games help improve cooperative behavior and teamwork. Therefore, parents should not prevent their children from playing video games just because they thought it would ruin their children's social life. However, the right to control the duration of their children's gaming time is up to them. 
	Just like most actions, I can't deny that there may have both positive and negative effects of playing video games. The argument of most people who despise the idea of playing video games is that video games can lead to addiction and then could result in students neglecting their studies and using most of their time playing video games. This might be true but while addiction is a serious matter, it is the job of the parents to discipline and educate their children to control their playing time since parents agree to let their children play in the first place. All the research about video games by Professor Jay Pratt from University of Toronto, Professor Daphne Bavalier from University of Rochester, and others emphasizes on parents limiting the duration of gaming time, not disallowing children to play video games (as cited by Trudeau). This way, while students can gain the benefits of playing video games, they won't disregard their studies at the same time. 
	In a nutshell, playing video games can be both good and bad for you. However, based on many research and studies, I can say the positive effects clearly outweighs the negative ones. Although parents should allow their children to play video games, they should educate their children first in managing and balancing their time for playing and doing other things such as studying and` doing housework. If people would stop criticizing gamers and start playing video games instead of judging them negatively, only then will they know the bliss of playing video games while experiencing the advantages of playing them. 
