P5d3_arp 
April 25, 2016 
Can Zika virus be transmitted through sexual practice? 
My project is about the transmission ways of Zika virus. According to my previous paper, it is widely acknowledged that Zika virus can be transmitted by Aedes species mosquito (A. aegypti and A. albopictus). However, before the deep research into Zika virus, many researchers believe that Zika virus cannot be transmitted by sexual practice at very beginning. Many researchers performed research related to the transmission of Zika virus usually says like that: "To the best of our knowledge, human sexual transmission of an arbovirus (Zika is one of the arbovirus) has not been documented." (Foy et al., 2011, p.3) This statement frequently appears in many papers' conclusions. 
Though there is no documentation yet declaring that arbovirus can be transmitted through sexual practice, we cannot deny the possibility that it can be transmitted by intercourse. Actually there is strong evidence supporting the idea that Zika virus can be transmitted by sexual practice. 
First, there are already cases reported that Zika virus can be transmitted through sexual contact. Two of the cases are about two scientists who have been to southeastern Senegal and were infected with Zika virus. After they coming back to America, their wives, who have never been to that region, also turned out to be infected with Zika virus. Their wives were never bitted by these mosquitoes but they had intercourse with their husbands after their return from southeastern Senegal. (Foy et al., 2011) Since Zika virus cannot be transmitted through touching or saliva (from Dr. Kuhn's lecture, open to public), so this case proves the existing possibility that Zika virus can be transmitted through intercourse. But how Zika virus can be transmitted from human intercourse remains unclear. Because the mechanism behind the sexual transmission ways of Zika virus is unknown, so there is no documented resource prove the sexual transmission ways of Zika virus. But this is not to say that Zika virus cannot be transmitted by intercourse. Furthermore, more and more cases have been reported that Zika virus is transmitted through sexual practice according to the updated news from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Second, Zika virus belongs to arbovirus, which includes Dengue virus, West Nile virus, Yellow Fever virus and chikungunya. For other arbovirus, there are evidence that they can be transmitted through intercourse. Evidences are that West Nile virus has been detected in patients' urine for a longer time period and higher level. (Musso et al., 2015) Zika virus, which are very close to West Nile virus and Dengue virus, shares a lot of properties with them, it may also share this similarity with West Nile Virus. 
Third, adequate evidence proves that Zika virus can stay infectious in the semen under appropriate conditions. This offers strong evidence to support the idea that Zika virus can be transmitted by intercourse. According to my previous interview with Ms. Devika Sirohi, Kuhn's Lab already obtained the evidence that, Zika virus can stay infectious for over two months under room temperature in the semen. Additionally, the semen they obtained from male patients does obtain critical level of Zika virus that can lead to the new infection. These updated findings offer potent evidence that Zika virus can be transmitted by sexual practice. 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the updated news published 7 days ago stated that "Zika virus can be spread during sex by a man infected with Zika to his partners". This maybe the documented evidence showing that the Zika virus can be transmitted by sexual practice. Additionally, the paper stating that "To the best of our knowledge, human sexual transmission of an arbovirus (Zika is one of the arbovirus) has not been documented." (Foy et al., 2011, p.3) was published in 2011. The information is quite old, and now we have more updated information that reports the cases that the patients was infected with Zika virus through sexual practice. (Personal communication, 2016) Without millions of cases, we cannot say "prove", but we cannot deny the high possibility that Zika virus can be transmitted through sexual practice. 
Based on the information we have so far, there is high possibility that Zika virus can be transmitted through sexual practice. More and more cases are also emerging which confirms this idea. But we still need to collect far more cases to establish the theory and figure out the mechanism behind the sexual transmission ways of Zika virus. Further researches are needed to establish the mechanism of sexual transmission ways of Zika virus. 
