F5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 23, 2015 
Lying Through Omission 
In our everyday life, various social media disseminate information to us, like newspaper, broadcasting and so forth, and we are surrounded by different kinds of news. Due to the authority of journalism, we tend to believe what journalists tell us, and journalism has a great effect on public opinion. However, sometimes, journalists lie by omission on purpose when they report news, and then we disseminate the news, which usually leads to serious damage to our society. What should we do as the public to avoid this kind of situation? Are we responsible for the lying-by-omission information which we disseminate? According to my interview with <name>, we should be "informed consumers" when we spread the information personal communication, March 31, 2015. In my opinion, although some people believe that it is totally the fault of journalists who lies by omission, we cannot blindly rely on only one resource, like an article in a newspaper or a blog on the Internet. We ought to go out and check out the information we receive from all kinds of channels. 
First, we need to be more careful about the news which lies through omission, because lying by omission causes irreparable damage. According to Deni Elliott and Charles Culver 1992, journalistic deception "is sometimes just as morally problematic for journalists to withhold true information as it is to give false information" p83. This kind of behavior has an important influence on public awareness. In my interview with Carl, he mentioned an example about factory construction. Some journalists found that a lot of evidence showed that this factory produced carcinogenic chemicals during the production of their products, which would raise the rate of cancer in this region. Nevertheless, these journalists advertised and hyped this factory, instead of presenting the information about disadvantages during the production personal communication, March 31, 2015. Even if they decided not to report certain information, what they were doing was considered as lying by omission. What's more, their behavior did have a great influence on people's opinion. 
Furthermore, lying through omission is even able to ruin people's life. Take myself as an example. A few months ago, I saw a piece of news on the official news website that showed some doctors were taking selfies when performing an operation. In the photos, they were holding scalpels and wearing surgical masks, and the patient was lying on the operating table unconsciously. From a spectator's perspective, I became very outraged with these doctors as other readers did since I thought they did not take patient's life into account and they were unprofessional. I forgot to track the source of the news and just believed it. I reposted the news and let more people know about this case. After a few days, the net users became more and more violent. The angry net users dug out the personal information of these doctors by human flesh search, and the doctors' life had been extremely influenced. A lot of outraged people went to their hospital and their house and censured those doctors. One of the vice-presidents of this hospital was even dismissed due to this case. Nevertheless, it turned out that the reason why those doctors took pictures during an operation was that they finally saved the leg of this patient after performing an operation for more than 7 hours without food and drinks. They thought it was a miracle. In addition, they got the permission from the patient's family before they took selfies. However, what the net users did ruined their life. It was not only the net users but also journalists who pushed this incident, which had an extremely negative effect on those parties' life. 
In addition, somebody would say it was the fault of the press, not the fault of net users because they just believed that the press is the most authoritative organization to disseminate information. However, as the public, we need to check the reality of the news before we spread it. Although in Ettema and Glasser's study 1998, some journalists claim that what they do is just objectively gathering information instead of moral judgement, persisting in objectivity is an idealized and visionary behavior. Therefore, we cannot count on the journalists to check the objectivity of their own reports, and as the instance I mentioned before, net users should take most of the responsibility of the influence of those doctors. If we have not disseminated the news which is lying through omission, these doctors could have enjoyed their peaceful way of life. We spread news as reporters in our daily life through Twitter, Facebook and some other media on the Internet, so we have the responsibility to confirm the authenticity of the information. Nevertheless, it does not mean that it is acceptable that journalists lie through omission when they report news. Even though the press is so powerful that it can lead the public opinion, it is our duty to decide which news we should believe and disseminate. 
My study on lying through omission in journalism shows that the public ought to cheat the information which the press spread with caution. If the net users do not tend to be "informed consumers", it will lead to really negative influence on the society and people's life. Moreover, like the real journalists, we should also be responsible for the authenticity of the information we disseminate. 
Reference 
Elliot, Deni and Culver, Charles 1992 Defining and analyzing journalistic deception. Journal of Mass Media Ethics 72, pp. 69-84. 
Ettema, J. S. , & Glasser, T. L. 1998, Custodians of conscience: Investigative journalism and pubic virtue. New York: Columbia University Press. 
