How students choose their college major 
The importance of college major for students is always discussed. A part of people indicate that many people always do job which is not match with their college major. Thus students could choose their college major as their wishes. Many people think that cultivating professional skill in college is helpful to student. Because students could become more competitive when they are finding job. High competitiveness often represents high salary. There is nothing wrong about these opinions. However, I want to present my views and opinions. Students should balance their interest and their money desire or social state desire. In addition, I think interest is the first choice for students. 
Firstly, parents always prevent their children who are interested in artistic major. What cause this situation? Because artistic jobs always present the high-risk and the low success rate. Why some business major is so popular. Since some parents regard business management as they major could help students find a high salary job when they graduate from universities. Parents always enforce their thought on their children. Some parents care whether their children are happy. But Some Parents only care whether they have a good life. This is why some parents want their children to choose some major according to later salary. There exist a misunderstanding of business major. It not has direct relation between business major and high salary job. Moreover, low success rate not means can't success. We all have dreams, but most of us make excuses for not pursuing them. Young people should seek their dream rather than regret when they are old. 
Secondly, some students never mind their college major. For these students, they should focus on how to choose a suitable college major. Suitable college major means that attract you and you are good at these fields. In this case, students should use a scientific method to find their college major. For instance, students who are worry about their major they could do some scientific and interest test online. Scientific test will output some suitable college majors according to students' interest, their skill and their personality. In my opinion, a favored and interest college major is a suitable major. 
I emphasize the importance of interest all the time. Because interest is generally consider as a good vehicle to study and provide necessary impetus for success. Choosing college major from their hobby and their interest obviously could make them happy and satisfied when they are studying. If enjoyment is they aspired, I consider that choose their major from their interest is most sensible selection. Second way to choose individuals' major is according to profit. If the reason why some students choose economic or business management (these two major is just a represent) as their major is these majors could help them acquire high salary when them graduate. I guess maybe them have misunderstanding about connection between some professions and salary. Because some jobs has direct connection with the money. It not means people who work on those jobs or similar job could earn much money. On the contrary, people who work on their interest domain may successful more easily. In addition, I think if students are not enjoying their college major. Perhaps they can't do it perfectly. Certainly, student who is interested in certain job, I am strongly commend they choose some correlative major. It is no doubt that some major may have potential to earn lots of money. Money can satisfy our material life, which could bring temporary joy and satisfaction. So balance interest and money desire is very important. Individual should consider which is more important in that time. And then make compromises and concessions. But, keep in mind that pursuit of money seldom brings happiness. 
Objective speaking, it has not been the path for the cowardly people. I encourage young people to pursue their dream. But not means choose their major according to profit is not true. I think students should make their own decisions. Choose college major according interest or balance the interest and profit. 
