P5D1 
12/4/2015 
Why learn computer science? 
Computer science is the study of the principles and use of computers. It requires the ability to think critically both in abstract and concrete terms. In today's modern world, it is an inescapable fact that most of us heavily relies on computers as we use them on a regular basis. However to date, according to the National Science Foundation, the accessibility to computer science classes at the kindergarten through 12th grade levels remains extremely limited. I myself believe that computer science is the center of technological progress as I consider computers as necessities in our life. The question is, should students learn computer science in schools from an early age? 
	I strongly agree that students should learn programming as early as they can because it has a lot of benefits beyond just obtaining a job in the technology field. It is an academic subject that can train students to think critically out of the box. This type of cognitive thinking is a skill that all employers would like to seek from job seekers. Also, critical thinking will enhance a student to be able to deduce consequences from what he or she knows and to make use of information to solve problems. In order to encourage students to learn this subject at an early age, the government needs to invest in the computer science field to produce qualified teachers to teach the subject. Producing well-trained teachers will definitely play a major role in attracting more students to be interested in programming. 
	Besides that, learning computer science at a relatively young age will definitely help students in obtaining jobs in the future. Besides gaining the ability of thinking critically as mentioned earlier, the programming skills that students obtained from learning it will boost their future career. This is because in these days, most profession requires workers to have a little programming skill. Whether you work as an accountant, actuary, or engineer, most companies would prefer to hire someone who has some programming skills. Also, according to the U.S bureau of Labor Statistics, there were about 913000 computer-programming jobs in the year 2010. That number is expected to increase by a staggering value of 30 percent from 2010 to 2020. Based on my interview with Professor Susanne E. Hambrusch who works as a professor in Purdue University, I learnt that this subject only counts as an elective on high school level. Thus, the education ministry or government should make this course counted as a math or science course as I believe it is related to technologies and tough to learn it. 
	People may say that it is not necessary to learn computer science because there are many other career or jobs that are not related to computer science. They might be right but the skills obtained learning it especially the cognitive process will definitely give them an invaluable skill that can be applied in other fields. Some might also think that there are already too many subjects for students to take and it will definitely burden students even more if they are required to take this additional course. I do agree with them but I myself believe that learning the subject early will tell students about what computer science field is all about before they start choosing a field or subject to major in when preparing to go to college. Last but not least, opponents of my topic will say that money invested in the computer science field should be allocated to more important situations such as developing rural areas, helping the poor's and others. Though they may be right, it is definitely worth investing in computer science, as we would want the country to be competitive compared to others. We might not see the how the investment bear fruit right away, but in the long-term, it will prepare more students to work in the computer technology field which is expanding rapidly. 
	From my personal experience, my home country of Malaysia did not offer any computer science classes back in my high school years. Luckily, I have an older brother who introduced the subject to me when I was still attending high school. After about a few months learning JAVA programming language, I could still clearly remembered the first game I created which was "Tic-Tac-Toe". With the sense of self-accomplishment and the admiration of my school friends for my creation quickly developed an interest in me to pursue more knowledge regarding computer programming. Thus, I believe that everyone should have an opportunity to try out or study computer science, which is a really interesting field. Perhaps with the involvement of the schools, government and the people, we can improve the education curriculum to attract more young students to study the subject. 
