17 November 2015 
How do advertisement photography affects consumers choice 
Nowadays, people cannot fully understand what is the difference between advertisement photography and other types of photography, also, people cannot determine the effects that advertisement and advertisement photography have. Therefore, over budget, buying things that people don't really need will happen to these people. However, if people knows the relationship between advertisement and the product, they will be able to control their habit of shopping. 
Introduction: the 21 century is an informational century, under the great increase of internet shopping and digital use, people are specking more and more advertisements. Most advertisements have pictures with it. So what is the relationship between advertisement photography and advertisement? It's obvious that it increases the selling number of the product, but how? Why do they have some kind of magic that lead people cannot stop from buying them? This easy is going to talk about what is advertisement photography and how does it work, which may solve the problem of people buying things that they don't really need. 
I. The difference between advertisement photography and other types of photography. 
a. Advertisement photography needs more preparation time. For example, they will prepare a lot of sources and make it looks right. 
i. (Alfred Stieglitz 2) 
b. Advertisement photography needs more skill. Because they have to concern more than other nature photographers (prof, <name> interview, 4) 
In 1930s the equipment are not that good and cannot do what modern camera can do. It takes at least 3times more tries to make the right picture.( Journal Of Consumer Research 13) 
c. Advertisement photography is making fake things real because advertisement photographers made the picture and let it meet some kind of requirements the customer gives. Advertisement photography is more like a story rather than providing information 
II. How does advertisement photography attract and persuade consumers to buy their product. 
a. The balance between the three parts. The three parts of providing information is persuade, information and entertainment. Ad photos needs to find a balance between these three factors in order to persuade the consumer and provide enough information at the same time, but not too boring that nobody wants to look at it.(prof, <name> interview, 2) 
b. Targeting specific age groups or kinds 
i. relationship between verbal and visual information in advertisement (Mitchell, Andrew A. 8) 
ii. low and high literacy level affects what people pay more attention on either the verbal or visual parts of the advertisement (Jae, Haeran, 10) 
iii. Strategy and successful example of targeting: kids' food advertisement. (See Hoe Ng, and Bridget Kelly, 20) 
III. How do people avoid spending money on useless things on advertisements 
a. be honest to yourself and ask if you really need it (needs more research) 
b. look through the ad and check the information. 
Conclusion 
