P5d3 Formal proposal 
12/04/2015 
Communicative Obstacle Between Chinese Students and Domestic Students 
In recent years, U.S. appeals thousands of Chinese students due to its high quality of college education. However, almost all of Chinese as foreigners face communicative obstacle when they are studying or living in America. The critical situation raises the questions that how can we deal with the communicative obstacle and establish the bridge between Chinese and American. I believe that Chinese students have many difficulties because of the communicative obstacle. Colleges and Chinese scholars certainly should do effort together to come over the barriers. 
First of all, Chinese pupils cannot do well on their study because of communicative obstacle. The rate of Chinese students who can graduate in four years is obviously lower than the average rate of whole college students. Bountiful Chinese pupils cannot understand the class contents and don't have the capacity to do their homework independently because of the language bump. The first month I came to America I totally had no idea about what professors told and I really had difficulties to do my homework. Many of my classmates have similar experiences with me and some of them even have nightmare about their tomorrow's class: My friend called me one day night and cried. She dreamed she entered a classroom and she couldn't answer the questions which professor offered and classmates laughed at her. Chinese students are a group which very care about their grades and always want to get A; if not, they will thin themselves are not good students. So we can see that language barriers really let Chinese scholars feel struggle. For these phenomenon we can find that Chinese students have to improve their English skill. 
Moreover, Chinese students know few social knowledge or events which let them seem lonely and weird. When American students talk about football or a superstar, Chinese students can only smile instead of participating in talking. Apparently, Chinese pupils don't have the strong hope to do like American young persons. Chinese students still only concentrate on Chinese news even though they are living in America now. However, I do a survey about other international students who also not come from China. One of them is a French, [name]. He knows many America general histories and America famous heroes. In addition, he likes to watch American TV program and the most favorite magazine is Travel. From these stuffs, he can make many interesting topics with Americans and certainly, he has lots of domestic friends. 
The last but not least, communicative obstacle let Chinese students become fragile when they face big problems in their life. They do not have some local friends who can give them useful advice or help them in time. All the difficulties and unhappiness they have to deal with themselves. Few Chinese students choose to suicide because of stresses. In addition, Chinese students always feel sham to share their sad stories with others or find help for college's officers. I have interviewed a specialist in IPO, Mrs. Annette Benson, who told me that sometime she didn't know what should she do to help these Chinese students. She could not know what things happen to these students. 
However, some people may hold various opinions with me. They state that Chinese students can make friends with each other and be a part of American friends circle is not so necessary. But they forget one important thing that is Chinese students in America. They should performance as good as American on study; they need have fun with friends and many of them want to share their own experiences with friends. If they only stay with Chinese, they cannot find the happiness which stay with domestic students or other international students. If they only stay with compatriots, their English capability will never improve. All of these can be carriers for them to live or study happy. Also they believe that Chinese students should not Change their identity. However, I believe this change is a good thing. There are different cultures mixing and improve. Chinese pupils behavior more like American while American get more Chinese traditional habits. Because of these changes, Chines and American can understand each other well. 
In a nutshell, communicative bump can cause big problems to Chinese scholars when they are studying and living in America. As international students, Chinese students should try to overcome the difficulties and ask for help for the colleges or universities. Actively participate in the program that the college offered to international students. As long as we pay efforts and willing to be a member of the whole community, the communicative obstacle will not bother us too long time. 
