International students' homesickness should be dealt with carefully 
Latest data show that almost 80 percent of the people have experienced homesickness once or more in their life. By the process of the globalization, more and more people are leaving their motherland to find another bigger stage in their lives, also some of them are now suffering from homesickness. I believe that we have to treat those people who have miss their home better, and help them get out of that situation. 
First of all, homesickness should be well understood, because it affects people's lives deeply. The homesickness will result in a lot of negative emotions like anxiety, loneness, and stresses. Homesickness is not the represent of childish at all. When we leave a place we are familiar with we all will get a feeling of lost, this is what we called homesickness. In my interview with the resident assistant of First Street Tower, Mr. Yang told me that homesickness can completely destroy someone's life and make them not motivated to do any work. They can be sad and feel lost. People who are homesick may have issues that they cannot take care of because of the new place and further sink into the feeling of missing home. For some of the international students, the language and culture barriers stops them from getting into the native communities. They may spend all of their time talking to their parents or friends back home rather than going out and making new friends. With the great pressure from the academic life, I believe that feeling of "life is so hard" can easily destroy one's mental strength. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to take care of those people who have homesickness. 
Secondly, homesickness should be treated for humanity. When we have got a feeling of homesickness all we want is someone come and comfort us. And also, this is what other people who got homesickness wish to get. In my interview, Mr. Yang provided several useful ways to cover homesickness. I think these what we need to do when we help others. Give people mental support, transport our positive energy to them. I believe once people start making friends and seeing the place they are in as a second home, it becomes much better. For example, I was in serious homesick when I first get into college, Then I found that coving homesickness is a kind of daunting thought, I need to make ourselves familiar with the new environment, new friends, even a new language. People always need to learn a lot to cover homesickness even it is a kind of self-protection. This process maybe long and harsh, there for homesick people need more care and protection. 
Maybe, some people will feel it is meaningless to treat homesickness so seriously. Homesickness is just a little psychological problem, everyone can cover it by themselves. I want to say, it is true that some people can cover homesickness easily like myself, but we still need a right way to deal with it. We all hope we can get the warm hands from others when we face embarrassed situations, the same as others. Not only for humanity, but also for ourselves, those help when need is really necessary. 
After all the things above, I found several suggestions that can help people cover homesickness better and faster. 1. Thinking more about the meaningful experience. 2. Keep contacting with families and friends in hometown. 3. Get to find new friends. 4. Focused on the life you are now going. 5. Try to get in to new work faster. 6. Establish a new routine. 7. Write letters back to hometown. 8. Talking to the people around you. 8. Make your time stay alone longer. All this above may be helpful at the time we need comfort or we need to comfort others. 
Finally, in my point of view, homesick people should be took care well. Maybe because the patience and warm heart we use on them, they can cover from the anxiety caused by homesickness faster. By doing this, we can get the mental satisfaction in one hand, and also may the community we are in a better place. 
