Changing Experience for Chinese Students 
Nowadays, a second large wave of studying abroad is currently underway in China. The number of Chinese international students in the United States keep increasing, and Chinese students became the majority of international students in American universities. However, there are still many misunderstanding about Chinese students, and the most common one is to consider all of the Chinese students undergo a severe psychological depress when they first come to the United States, which is also called "culture clash". Compared the Chinese international students decades ago, the current Chinese students actually experienced little culture clash. 
According to Daniel Chirot, a professor of International Studies and of Sociology in University of Washington, the major causation of this situation is policy change. He indicated that after the "open the door" policy, people in China got to know the information about foreign countries including the United States through many ways such like American movies, novels and US Television series. Moreover, the policy change also stimulated the economic growth. More people can afford traveling or studying abroad, and people who plan to go abroad can know many knowledge about foreign customs and lifestyles through those who have been to abroad. Therefore, people who will go to the United States, to some degree, are well-prepared, even though sometimes they do not realize it. 
Professor Daniel Chirot also argued that advanced technology recent years has contribute to this situation by allowing people in different countries exchange their values and opinions. Daniel Chirot said that although there are still many people regard China as conservative, traditional and exclusive, China is trying to be open. Benefit by the technology, Chinese people can communicate with foreigners and people living abroad through social network, and learn a lot about foreign life, even though they do not know each other in their real life. These communications actually are the exchange of values, and you can know how a person from another country see a same thing differently, which attributes to the better understanding of foreign cultures by Chinese people. 
There are some studies argue that Chinese international students still experience hard time of adjustment. For example, the 2011 study, "Chinese students' experience at an American university," shows that Chinese students' experience of culture shock is majorly presented in terms of academic experience, socialization, and cultural adaption. However, in a 2012 study of "Acculturative adjustment patterns among Chinese international students," the author pointed out that there is no single study of international students' accumulative adjustment with the consideration of personal differences among individuals. According to the author, even students from a single country have different language ability, acculturation status, and familiarity of American culture, and these differences can make a big difference in adjustment period. The author also mentioned the Berry's (1997) assertion of the importance of studying existing factors prior to acculturation; in fact, Berry said that any study that ignores any personal variables (in this case, may be pre-existing psychological distress) will be incomplete, and will be unable to comprehend individuals who are experiencing acculturation. 
Besides the personal differences, the author of "Acculturative adjustment patterns among Chinese international students" also emphasized the importance of using updated data. We can know from above that because of policy, people nowadays have more knowledge and information about foreign life than people in decades ago. Therefore, using updated data is necessary to a study with accurate outcome. The author of 2012 study indicated that most studies about culture clash experienced by Chinese international students based on the data that collected decades ago, which is a major causation of incorrect outcome. 
The 2012 study, "Acculturative adjustment patterns among Chinese international students," which used updated data with the consideration of both longitudinal aspects and personal differences, shows us that majority of Chinese international students nowadays do not experience sever psychological distress during their initial cultural transition to the United States, some of them even show a decrease in their level of psychological depress. Therefore, overall Chinese students nowadays actually have a smoother transition period. 
To sum up, the studies of Chinese students' acculturative adjustment process need to consider not only the personal differences among students, but also the data used in study. China is moving forward and ignorance of the changes of times may lead to inaccurate results of the study. 
