Argumentative Paper 
11/14 
The Reason Why Robots Could Replace Human Labour 
In the recent past, technology has developed to a high level where human labor has been replaced either partially or completely by robots. It's hard to believe that the machine can take more than 50 percent workforce of the economy. (Boston Consulting, 2015) But that is what the industrial revolution did to the workforce of the early 19th century. For example, two hundred years ago, 70 percent of American workers lived on the farm. Today automation has eliminated all but 1 percent of their jobs, replacing them with machines, because the workforce industrial robots can provide is much more than a human did. Today, industrial companies and organizations have turned to research on the replacement of human labor with industrial robots instead of human labour. History proved that machines make the work easier. Work that was supposed to be done by several people could be done by one person who is controlling a machine. But not everyone agree if industrial robots could replace human factory labors. In my opinion, I believe that industrial robots can replace human labor in the factory because robotics are efficient and have stronger workforce. 
First of all, industrial robots are more efficient than human workers. Machines have a very high efficiency, and perform certain tasks at a faster rate than humans, which means machines can save time. As I stated before, a machine can perform work which take human beings a thousand days in one day. The way machines work is different from human labors, most of machines can work for a full day without getting fatigued. For example, a lift can work for twenty four hours without getting exhausted. If it were a human being, he or she may need to take a break after several hour. This makes machines efficient for the performance of most of duties especially where the time is a limiting factor. Also, machines will not have overtime. A machine is not governed by the laws of labour. which means the work time for a machine will not be limited in 8 hours per day. 
Using industrial robot is also cheaper than hiring human labour. The cost of owning and operating a robotic spot welder, for instance, has tumbled from $182,000 in 2005 to $133,000 last year, and will drop to $103,000 by 2025. (Boston Consulting, 2015) Costs of industrial robots will continue to decline over the next decade by more than 20 percent.(n, d) For example, industrial robots in the U.S. auto manufacturing are already operating at a cost roughly matching a typical U.S. fast-food line cook's wages (barely over the federal $7. 25 hourly minimum wage) after the cost of the robot is recovered. Robots used in electronics manufacturing cost less than half of that minimum wage, and that gap is expected to be widen in the machine's favor. 
Finally, using industrial robots are benefiting because they can do what human can not do. A report from RBC Global Asset Management notes that robots can be reprogrammed far faster and more efficiently than humans can be retrained when products are updated or replaced - a crucial advantage at a time when smartphones and other products quickly fade into obsolescence. To illustrate, there are lots of steps including training, tests before a person gets hired. Also, it will take a long period for a human labor to get familiar with a new career. Robots don't need this process because the program tell the robots what to do. At this point, using robots save lots of time for the manufacture. At the same time, robots do more consistent work than people, especial the assembly line in the factories. Industrial robots follow the direction provided by the constructor from the system. Most of industrial robots repeat same movement, which means industrial robots have a very low probability for making mistakes. 
There is another opinion which indicates that using robots replace human workers will make lots of people unemployed. I don't agree with this opinion. The displaced workers are not unemployed. Instead, automation has created millions of new jobs in the entirely new fields. Those people who farmed before were now manning the legions of factories that manufacture farm equipment, cars, and other industrial products. Since then, more and more new occupations have arrived, such as appliance repairman, offset printer, food chemist, photographer, web designer, each building on previous automation. 
Today, industrial robots are already able to finish the work faster and better than human labor. New technologies are always developing, which means future machines can do a better job. Old generation of robot were only able to achieve the operations in predictable environment. Future robots which use improved sensors and technologies can deal with the situations which are unexpected. These robots can not only replace human labor in industry. They will be able to help people in other fields such as services. I believe that day will come. 
