13 November 2015 
Korean Military System: Innovation or maintenance 
Claim/Argument: Current Korean military system requires too much of painstaking efforts from the soldiers. They surly deserve better and the basic problems are the policy and the general perspective from the non-soldiers. The way to solve the issue is to enhance the benefits of the soldiers and change the general view towards the military. 
I. Since the Korean War, people think that the military should always be harsh and strict. 
a. Harsh and demanding nature of the army often stresses out the soldiers. 
b. KATUSA, which is the U.S. army based in the South Korea is known for the free and non-harsh nature of it. This U.S. army is very popular in South Korea and always so crowded from the people who want to go there. This proves how people eagerly want to escape from the harsh nature of South Korean army. 
II. The current policies for the South Korea army are pressuring the South Korean soldiers. 
a. The recent policies make the soldiers to pay to do their laundries, buy cigarettes, etc. 
b. Many female students are also claiming that the soldiers deserve better than current situations. 
III. South Korea is depending too much of their military parts on the United States. 
a. In fact, the United States is responsible of more of the finance situations than South Korea is. 
b. United States' citizens are worrying about giving out too much of their secret information to South Korea. 
c. Moreover, United States is causing more of the cultural and diplomatic issues in South Korea. Some of the South Korean politicians and citizens are worrying about the further problems. 
d. The reason the United States army has been in South Korea is to give the full autonomy to South Korean army. (Lee) 
i. Now is the time to give the actual complete independence to South Korea army. Or else, South Korea would be too used to receiving the assistance and will not be independent after all. 
IV. Although the Korean army should not be abolished at all, the current policies could be replaced with the better. 
a. The total suicide rate in South Korea is increasing, and that of soldiers is also increasing. 
b. In reality, South Korea is being threatened more of the inside issue in military: Suicide and murder, not actually of North Korea. (Kirk) 
i. This is a heads-up issue because the trend of the rate is increasing. 
ii. Sexual torture, physical torture, 21 months of time spent and then school again are pressuring the new soldiers. 
V. The benefits for the soldiers are too little. 
a. United States support their veterans in various ways: Support their education, buying houses, etc. (Richards, interview) 
i. South Korea should really consider increasing their benefits for their soldiers. 
ii. Too much of soldiers are complaining about their current situations. 
iii. Without further benefits, South Korea would never have a positive view towards their army. 
b. The salary itself is also a big issue for the current soldiers. 
i. The average wage the soldiers get per month is about 150 dollars. Surprisingly, this amount is 3.8% increased amount compared to the previous year. 
