Rock Music's Destructive Effects 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
Hard rock music is popular nowadays and it brings various influences to people's lives, both negatively and positively. This assignment paper talks about what kind of both sides' effects this type of music has on people's lives and it argues that negative effects actually outweigh positive effects. Opinions in several peer review articles like Problem music and self-harming and Rock Concert Violence Tied to Drugs, Alcohol, will be used to justify my viewpoint. And this argument paper also covers what I've learned in the interview with <name> an expert in rock music. All those contentions will help me arrive at the conclusion that hard rock music brings more destructive effects than positive effects. 
Rock Music's Destructive Effects 
Music is a kind of language that connects our feelings and gives us some insights about life, and hard rock, the popular type of music, which delivers strong emotions with a heavy use of aggressive guitars and drums is no exception. However, everything has two sides. Although hard rock music can make us energetic and give them strength, it does bring many negative effects to our lives. For example people may feel anxious and have headaches because of the loudness, and some lyrics contain violent and sexual information that has a profound influence on the young. As far as I am concerned, hard rock's negative effects actually outweigh its positive effects physically and especially psychologically. 
It cannot be denied that hard rock music does bring some positive influences in our life. For example, Susan Mc Cammon (n. d.) analyzes four positive effects. First of all, hard rock music talks about problems teens are suffering so that they can find out hope and encouragement by listening to this kind of music. Second, it has the ability to regulate people's moods, which is one of the most important reasons why people would like to listen to this type of music. As is often the case, people use this it to improve their sadness. The third positive influence Susan mentions is about the strong and fast beats of hard rock music. Those two characteristics can enhance the learning environment and make people more energetic. Moreover, when people are doing exercises while they are also listening to the music, it is easier for them to find the rhythm and tempo. The last positive influence is about identification. People can discover groups that have the same taste of music as themselves, which is helpful to their social development. And according to my interview, <name> the expert in rock music, who has been playing rock music for more than 6 years and used to have his own two bands, also said:" Some rock music's lyrics involve self-struggle and relationships with other people and they guide me to do whatever I want and teach me how to deal with people around me." (Personal communication, October 28th, 2015) 
However, in my opinion, those positive influences are not convincing because we can find more compelling negative effects to counter them. For example, many hard rock songs talks about social problems in aggressive ways and many singers use this type of music to show their anger and dissatisfaction. Atkin et al showed that instead of gaining hope and encouragement, teenagers are actually exposed to violent and sexual scenes and what they really learn is explicit language (Influence of hard rock music media essay, 2013). According to the same article, researchers at University of Missouri found out that teens who like hard rock music would have more reckless behaviors. 
There also exists evidence to counter the second positive influence mentioned by Mc Cammon about mood regulation. It is true that hard rock music works well if people listen to it for the purpose of improving their mood. However, based on Influence of hard rock music media essay (2013), Nicholas and Dibben point out that there exist a lot of violent and aggressive acts in almost all hard rock music. Therefore, for those who don't tend to listen to hard rock music, a brief exposure to it will change one person's emotions negatively. 
Additionally, while I admit that hard rock music can make people energetic and create an active atmosphere, it also has potential physical damage to our body. For example, an Australian physician and psychiatrist, Dr. John Diamond, concluded from a study that hard rock can weaken our muscle and destroy the symmetry between our cerebral hemispheres, causing problems in children's behavior and lessening our work performance (Hard Rock Music as a Positive Social Force. 2013). And also, <name> , the expert I interviewed, told me that many of his friends don't like hard rock music because they are not physically comfortable with this type of music and they will get anxious because the drums and guitars are too loud for them. 
The last mentioned positive effect to counter is group identification. It is a good thing to find a place where we belong to, but a study conducted by the American Psychological Association (2002) showed that most hard rock singers want to be more unique to fit into some groups so that they will choose antisocial behaviors which actually do harm personally and socially (Influence of hard rock music media essay. (2013)). 
Besides all those negative effects mentioned above, there are still other bad influences hard rock music has on our life. Nowadays, many rock songs contain the elements of infidelity, sadism, homosexuality, rape and some of the songs have the degradation of understanding of female figures. Alexander (n. d.) mentions his point from an orthodox religious perspective that one of the reasons why profligacy will be widely discussed in hard rock music is that it can make this type of music more attractive. Johnson (n. d.) points out that a theology professor from Andews University, Samuele Bacchioccchi, also states that hard rock music can cause sexual arousal on the young. And the same result has been shown by Coyne and Padilla-Walker (2015): "A number of cross-sectional and experimental studies find that exposure to sex in music is associated with earlier initiation of sexual intercourse". Therefore, hard rock music really has negative effects on children and young listeners. 
Another bad influence of hard rock music is to cause listeners to commit suicide. Some hard rock music composers will preach suicide to create the feeling of despair on listeners. For example, the song "Suicide Solution" by Ozzy Osbourne preaches suicide in its lyrics like "Suicide, this is the only way out." North and Hargreaves (2006) did a research about problem-music, which includes hard rock music to figure out whether those problem music are related with suicide. They analyzed the data collected from 436 participants in mathematic ways and finally they arrived at the conclusion that listening to hard rock music have positive relationship with suicide thoughts though it doesn't directly lead to it. Additionally, Martin, Clarke and Pearce (1993) also did a study to show the relationship between hard rock music and suicide. They conducted the study at two schools and gathered information with questionnaires. Finally they believe there are associations between rock music and suicidal thinking, especially for female. Moreover, According to my interview, <name> also mentioned a famous song by Metallica, which finally led a guy to commit suicide after he listened to it (Personal communication, October 28th 2015). 
The last negative effect is about narcotics. As has been mentioned above, many singers use drugs to help themselves find groups they belong to. But drug abuse actually does a lot of harm on hard rock singers. For example, it can weaken their immune system, cause stroke and heart attack and influence our memory. Except those personal damages, Appleson (1982) also mentioned that violent incidents at rock concerts were also increasing because of drug abuse, which led to social problems. And many singers have already paid a price for drug abuse---their life. However, Bishop (n. d.) mentions that rock music still glorifies drug abuse. For young listeners, they are physically and mentally immature and they will be easily influenced to use drugs, which will lead to more personal and social tragedies. 
Conclusion 
Based on what have been mentioned above, we can draw a conclusion that although hard rock music has some positive influences, its negative influences outweigh its positive effects physically and mentally. For example, hard rock music can weaken our muscle and destroy the symmetry between our cerebral hemispheres and it can also give us misunderstanding of sex, violence and drug abuse, especially for those young listeners. Moreover, from the interview with <name> , I've known that both sides' effects can be brought on the same quality of hard rock music. Therefore, it is much more important to be aware of this conclusion so that we can make fully use of positive effects and try to avoid negative effects. For example, we can listen to some hard rock music when we are in sorrow and avoid it when we are working and studying; we can choose some inspirational hard rock songs which give us insights about life instead those that contain too much violence and sex. With those conclusions rooted in our mind, we can enjoy this type of music safely and comfortably. 
