P5D1 Formal Proposal (Paper) 
April 12, 2015 
Argumentative Essay: Virtual Reality 
Virtual Reality is a technology that allows people to be in a virtual environment generated by computers. It allows a programmer to design any environment digitally and lets users be inside the created virtual world. When virtual reality was first introduced in the 19th century, the response from consumers were not positive at all. This is due to the technology available to make a smooth virtual experience. Today, many big companies are investing billions of dollar to be part of the market that will change the world. Although the development has made significant progress over the past two years, it still needs more time before being released for commercial use. Therefore, we can say that this technology is not perfect yet. So, should we embrace this technology with open arms? In my opinion, I think virtual reality will become part of our daily life because its benefits simply outweighs the disadvantages. Hence, in this essay, I will talk about why virtual reality will be the biggest technological advancement of our generation. 
	First of all, we can use virtual reality to enhance our shopping experience. Think about shopping for something in Walmart. Then think about going to Walmart while staying at home at the same time. This is all possible in Virtual Reality. In fact, Tesco collaborated with Oculus Rift which is a company that specializes in virtual reality to create a virtual store in Berlin. With the help of this technology, users can explore a Tesco store right at their own home. Although the project "Tesco Pele" is still in development, I can see how this approach will help consumers save their time and effort from having to driving all the way to visit a real store. Not limited to groceries, this technology can also be used in fashion shopping. An example would be shoes because you can always change the shoe in a click of a button. You can view yourself changing your shoes in a different angle and being able to have a 360 view on a generated model of yourself. 
	Secondly, virtual reality is less money demanding and time consuming when creating a prototype. For example, real estate companies are now applying this technology to help create models of their houses in virtual reality. Potential buyers and investors can view the model created without ever having to really build the real model out. It is also less time consuming for buyers to view all the real estates they have in mind. Arch Virtual is a real estate development marketing company that makes this kind of prototypes before sales. Moreover, virtual reality can be adapted into any form of business where a model or a prototype needs to be produced. In my opinion, prototypes and models are pretty much needed in any business industries since a product can be previewed in detail without physically being manufactured, companies are able to test the feedback from consumers before investing any money. 
	Finally, education becomes much easier with virtual reality. The biggest reason why we should all embrace virtual reality is because of education. We humans are creatures that are always striving to learn. With the help of virtual reality, education becomes much easier for us. Simulations, training, and learning are all made easier with this technology. As a matter of fact, pilot trainings are already using this technology to simulate real flight using virtual reality. Police officers, military, firefighters all share the potential of using this technology to simulate any environment suitable for them. Furthermore, students can learn about anything in a more specific manner. For example, students in the medical field can learn about different types of sickness while watching a simulated patient and determining their sickness. We can even generate a virtual model of a tumor with varying size and shape to help educate the students. 
	In conclusion, I think virtual reality will be the most common thing in a few years just because its possibilities are endless. The three mentioned arguments are only a part of them and this essay would not end if I were to include all the possible applications. It will be a new experience for shopaholics to be able to shop virtually anywhere. It is also less time consuming to physically go to a store to shop. Also, any kind of prototypes can be created using a computer. Virtual reality can implement the prototype in an environment and users can view it in the virtual world. Finally, education is made easier with the help of this technology as instructors and teachers can basically create any material they need to assist in their teaching. Students also benefit from the ability to view the material in a different perspective as set by the instructor. 
Reference List 
Glenday, J. (2014, March 18). Virtual reality Tesco store to open its doors in Berlin. Retrieved April 13, 2015, from http://www.thedrum.com/news/2014/03/18/virtual-reality-tesco-make-berlin-appearance 
Hollister, S. (2015, January 6). I Went Shoe-Shopping In Virtual Reality. Retrieved April 13, 2015, from http://ces.gizmodo.com/i-went-shoe-shopping-in-virtual-reality-1677715904 
Bishop, T. (2015, March 5). Beyond video games: How virtual reality is transforming real estate - Geek Wire. Retrieved April 13, 2015, from http://www.geekwire.com/2015/beyond-video-games-how-virtual-reality-is-transforming-real-estate/ 
