argumentative essay Revised 
05/02/ 2016 
Promoting League of Legends at Purdue University 
Technology is changing many aspects of our lives, including the way we study, the way people interact and socialize. E-sports is one major benefit of technology that is now the modern way people play sports or enjoy leisure away from the fields. League of Legends (LOL) has now become the dominant game in the "E-sports" (Electronic sports) among students. Unlike the critique states that this E-sport based game has negative influence upon students. I believe it is a good idea to market league of legends at Purdue University so that many students can enjoy this game and familiarize with it. 
The League of Legends has many benefits and it is important to promote it in the university. League of Legends is a game that will be able to organize students. The number of students who engage in LOL across the nation is large. Therefore, it is expected that students at Purdue University will enroll in large numbers. Buzz feed news by Joseph. B (2013) proves League of legends popularity by given the data that LOL has 70 million currently registered players, and, within this number, college students occupy 60 percent of entire population of gamers quantity. Add to the number that the players' age between16-30 is 85% of the total LOL gamers, which can assume that they either currently studied in or graduated from college. The huge enrollment is anticipated to bring positive value because it increase social skills and allows students to be organization using a different platform. This is a positive benefit because it is a social factor that has positive effects. 
Aside from the large quantity of students engaged in LOL, League of Legends promotes the electronic media, which is a critical aspect of the society today. The way technology is changing, it seems that soon people will be using online platform to study, work, and execute other things. Therefore, encouraging the e-sport is a good thing as it provides students with an opportunity to understand the online platform better (Greenfield, 2014). This is an opportunity to sharpen skills and familiarize with digital technology, which is the future. Students at Purdue University should be encouraged to use e-Sports in order to be familiar with electronic media, which is applicable in academic. 
LOL and electronic sports enhances studio and performance at school. This MOBA type of games does bring positive effect to the students. Although critique of LOL in Universities have argued that this particular games have no positive effects on education and to make it worse, they argue that the game is harmful to students which rejected by the article (The effects of video games on school achievement) that I personally agree with. The article argues that there is a correlation between gaming and study performance (Voulgari, Komis, Sampson, 2014). Playing games and other co-curriculum activity is an important part of life, and student needs to be all-round in order to maintain high performance. Playing is part of learning and it keeps the mind fresh, which eventually helps to boost academic performance (Fiske & Taylor, 2013). The researchers collected the data from the survey, which proves that players have develop different level of abilities, from language, typing or speaking to the concepts of virtual world economy.(Freedman, Pringle, & Yalden, 2014). The data also indicates that players have develop great amount of the teamwork skills, which is crucial in this day and age because the extent of collaboration with teammates can determine the ultimate results. 
However, LOL could be destructive to Purdue University. Focusing on the online games can result in negative behavior as many of the participants will engage more in sports and forego learning, but again, no evidence has shown that the promotion of online game will directly lead to poor study performance. It could be a destructive move to promote LOL because playing games online is likely to interfere with social skills because people will only engage in e-based platforms. In addition, this can adversely affect learning because players will engage in games for many hours. 
The promotion of LOL at Purdue University will help boost communication skills, teamwork, and learning. More so, e-sports such as LOL will help students to organize themselves in large social groups, which will go far in addressing academic and social life. I believe promotion of LOL at Purdue University will bring positive outcome to the student gamers. 
