P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
Apr. 9th 2015 
Is "Asian students are better at math" a stereotype? Nowadays, this "stereotype" is becoming more and more solid. The test hosted by OCED-PISA showed that among the top 10 countries and cities, 7 of them are Asian. Also in past 20 years, the championships of International Math Olympiad were mostly won by Asian countries. What do these fact tell us? Asian students have advantage in learning math. Through some researches and interview, language, consciousness and family involvement could be main reasons. 
According to the study from Sun, Morita and Stark, "Chinese is 1. 3 times denser in linear dimension than in English" "Comparative patterns of reading eye movement in Chinese and English" 3. That means native Chinese readers spend less time and eye spans in reading than English native speakers do. So Chinese characters provide the advantages of fast speed and solid memory. The advantages are transferred into advantages in math. According to the study done by Miller and Stigler, kids who are Chinese native speakers have better performance than American kids in basic math "Counting in Chinese: Cultural Variation in a Basic Cognitive skill" 7,. As the author stated, the expression of numbers in their native languages are different in both length appeared in text and length of pronunciation. Chinese words used for expressing numbers are neater than English words, and Chinese has less exceptions than English does. So Chinese kids consumes less time and get earlier to learn how to count and calculate, that contributes a lot to their future studies. Since Chinese, Japanese and Korean are similar language, language is a factor that leads Asian students overtook their western peers. So how about the consciousness of study? 
A journal from Seal said "The Asian parental involvement in child education and Confucianism made Asian students have overtaken white student's scores." Confucianism suggests that children should study hard and take care of their parents after the parents get old. The Confucianism also suggests that "human should strive their whole life time to improve themselves". The high rate of involvement in child's education raised child's awareness of the importance and significance of studying. The consciousness is inherited from a generation to next generation. What their parents taught the kids, the kids will teach same thing to the next generation. So the consciousness of study is very strong in their mind. So apparently, Asian students have more study hours that their peers across the ocean, and amount of the effort put into child's education is also a big mismatch between east and west . The study environment of Asian students'' leads to a result that their scores are higher than the rest's. 
The idea of Asian students are good at math is also supported by International education expert. According to Mr. Ma, a principle of an international school and a coordinator of IB program, students have Asian ethnic background have more desire to learn and practice when compared to students who grown up in Western countries. He also stated that Asian students tend to solve problems by themselves and only ask questions if necessary. In contrast, students who have western ethnic background tend to ask questions frequently even the problem can be solved easily. 
From various examples from above, we could basically say that the success of Asian math education leads to great achievement of Asian students' math. Through several source of data, including an interview with an international math education expert, the statement "Asian students have advantage in learning math" can be proved. Yet exceptions exist, the general tendency is Asian students will overtake western students in math. 
