Living with roommates 
Never have human beings enjoyed such "huge and great" connection between each other by the innovation of computers and phones, and, most of all, Internet. While having a wonderful time chatting with friends with a highly advanced tool, people start to forget the ability to solve conflicts among individual in a mature way. One projection of this scenario occurs when people have roommates. Most people on this earth have had or still have roommates to live with for various reasons. Along with this popularity, there are problems. As I mentioned in my previous paper, conflicts will take place as long as the roommates have a different expectation concerning to any aspects of life. So in order to solve these discords and have a delightful future, we need to take action; we have to face and solve the problems and we have to confront and communicate with roommates. 
To begin with this topic, we have to understand that there are a lot of people who have to live with roommates. The reason is really simple, that is people want to save money. From my personal experience, I know we can save a lot of money by living with someone else. When I went to look for an apartment to live, I got the information that if I want to live alone in a suite, 875 dollars per month will be cost to pay the rent, not to mention the expensive fee of electricity and water. However, I will only need to pay 410 per month if there are other 3 people to live with me. So in this economic era, it is really crucial for people to budget wisely, and living with roommates to share the living cost will be a smart choice. To sum up, sometimes, we just need to live with someone for couple of reasons. We cannot just run away from people just because we don't want to deal with human conflicts. 
After we have the understanding that it is a better option if we just live with someone, now the fact that there will always be conflicts between people also need to be learned. And if there is an issue, we need to solve it before it goes too far. What I mean here is ignoring the problems between roommates will lead terrible or even dreadful outcome. In April 2013, there was a murder in the Fudan University in China. The crime was committed by a student who was constantly annoyed by his roommates' lifestyle and then a fight between them finally led to the murder. Furthermore, A 19-year-old student was charged with fatally stabbing her roommate, and the reason she committed such a crime was so na ve even ridiculous: she was unhappy about music volume playing from an i Pod of her roommate. These are extreme examples caused by morbid psychology. In daily life, we can see a lot of people choose to move out and change roommates due to some grudge between people. These are all unhealthy way to dealing with a roommates' disagreement. Neither should we just run away from it, nor should we take drastic action, what we really need to do is sit down and talk about the problems. 
Finally, there is a lot of benefit when we successfully address a roommates' problem. As we step in to society, we will run into people who are different than us and have disagreement with us the skill of solving these problems need to be established and is valued by a lot of company. Plus, during the talking, we can really understand what the real problems are. Maybe the issues arise because of one party or maybe problems are caused by both parties, and the gist of talking is that, either way, people can learn and perfect themselves after realizing what they did is wrong. What's more, the correction among roommates makes people get progress and then great friendship may begin. 
Nevertheless, there are people who suggesting that someone just is rich enough to live alone and is quite fond of loneliness. In this case, I can only bless this kind of individuals for they have lost so much. Living with roommates has give people a lot of advantages. Living with someone means people will perform better on their working and studying stage (as is shown by an article in my synthesis paper); living with someone means people can always get help on time; living with roommates means people can expand their social circle. In a word, there are so many benefits that people will gain from live with roommates. Furthermore, there are people who, on the contrary, hold the view that it is unnecessary to talk, since some people just cannot be talked sense into. In this case, I believe people may need some extra help. If you are a resident in a university or a school, Residence Assistant is a great option to ask for help if your roommates are crazy enough so that you cannot even talk to them. If you rent an apartment, the landlord is a good option, but if the situation gets worse, you may need to call the media or even police. 
"Communication leads to community, that is, to understanding, intimacy and mutual valuing." Says from a great man Rollo May. Only through communication and confrontation can people truly begin to know each other and then walk in others' shoes. If someone has the chance to live with roommates, I'd say: "go for it." If there are conflicts between them, I'd say: "that's even better, because this is the chance of people getting progress and making friendship." In the end, I just want every one on this earth can treat each other with love and patience, so the world won't be controlled by some computers or cell phones but be a better place for people to talk face-to-face and to live. 
