Chinese divergence on makeup 
In China, makeup became an important part of Chinese woman's daily life, which received both praise and criticism by the public. When it refers to the influence on makeup in Chinese society, people's opinions are divergent on such a controversial issue. Some people pointed out an opinion that cosmetics absolutely exert positive effects on society since makeup not only is able to bring women beauty, but also to bring them confidence and happiness. From my own perspective, on the contrary, despite quite a few obvious advantages of wearing cosmetics, it is not without its problem. On no account can we ignore that cosmetic abuse is harmful to female teenagers' growth and professional women's occupations. 
Along with the advancement of people's aesthetics and the development of fashion, females are having higher and higher requirements for their appearances. Thus, makeup has been widely abused by Chinese women, especially in the most metropolises, such as Beijing and Shanghai. It is universally acknowledged that makeup abuse has brought many serious problems to female health. As a matter of fact, a large number of Chinese women would wear skin diseases, such as pruritus and neurodermatitis, for the reason that they contact complex chemical compounds in the cosmetics for the long term. More specifically, most of makeup contains a variety of chemical components, including emulsifiers, preservatives, spices, and pigments, which caused direct stimulation to women's skin. For instance, those females who have super-sensitive skins, utilizing lipsticks containing eosin yellowish, perfume, or some allergic constitutions can cause various abnormal reactions such as allergic rhinitis, conjunctivitis, and urticaria. From what has been discussed above, we may safely draw the conclusion that using excess number of cosmetic would pose tons of threats to Chinese women's health. 
Chinese people in growing numbers are beginning to believe that wearing makeup benefit Chinese women's career. Those who learn how to wear cosmetics can give their clients decent and elegant impressions, which have positive effects to female works. For that reason, females who wear cosmetics and study fashion are more competitive and more confident than those who without makeup. Ironically, there are more evidences lead me to consider that makeup is absolutely detrimental to women's career and their personal financial management. Nowadays, many Chinese women always go into raptures at the mere mention of the tempting functions of cosmetics. Actually, in order to attract more customers, abundant advertisements of makeup include a mass of deceiving and misleading information about the products' effectiveness. For example, the advertising standards authority ASA banned a commercial advertisement of Lancome Company. The banned commercial was represented by Julia Roberts and illustrated the splendid effect of Lancome miracle gauze foundation. The ASA said that the ad posted on magazines cannot be able to accurately show the realistic affects of the product. Lancome Company admitted that they did purposely beautify the model by the post production and photo shop to "brighten skin, beautify the makeup look, shadows, soften lips and deepen eyebrows". Any Chinese woman, who is blind to this point, may pay a heavy price. A large amount of Chinese females, especially the young, are readily misled by those gaudy and specious cosmetics advertisements. Consequently, they would spend too much money on those unaffordable makeup products. 
Quite a few Chinese parents with an open mind tended to support their children to wear makeup for expensing their habits and facilitating their aesthetics. Additional, parents considered that makeup and fashion do not occupy children too much time on academic works, which should not be a serious problem. In contrast, there is a general phenomenon of college or high school female students spend tons of money on expensive apparels and cosmetics in order to satisfy their vanity and pride, even though they lack the ability to pay the bills by themselves. Hundreds of female teenagers, especially those who study in high schools, spend more time and energy on dressing up and wearing makeup rather than focusing on their homework and exams. Although people's live have been dramatically changed over the last decade, it must be admitted that, shortage of funds is still the one of the biggest questions that Chinese students nowadays have to face because that tuition fees and prices of books are soaring by the day. In comparison, some parents have to pay the overcharged bills for their daughters' vanity, which definitely bring them a great deal of financial pressure. 
This is no denying that an elegant appearance brought by wearing cosmetics may contribute to enhancing women's jobs or promotion opportunities. Makeup may promote students' appreciation of beauty. Nevertheless, the outstanding capability and hard working are much more crucial for career success. Chinese female teenagers are supposed to study aesthetics by more proper approaches such as taking painting and art classes rather than by contact unaffordable cosmetics prematurely. From the aforementioned evidences, I can conclude that wearing makeup not only harm to women's career and study both physically and psychologically. 
