Human Beings must use Robots for Medical Purposes 
As the field of robotics expands its authority, number of people who start to aware of its advantages and disadvantages increase day after day. People start to recognize importance of robot as well as risk of using it in their life. Although it needs to be worked on fixing its weakness or flaws, there are tremendous things robot can benefit us. One of those is medical purpose of robot and robot substantially offers a way to achieve much better medical system for us. However, some people think it should not be used as the purpose because of some issues that people need to work on. The following passages will explain about the huge advantages that the robot can offer on the medical area and think about its effectiveness. 
Robot gives tremendous benefit when it is used as surgical instrument. Since robot is programmed and tested for thousands of times before it really used in real-life, it tends to make no mistakes while people sometimes do. Furthermore, robot has its unique way of processing surgery. By using special algorithm programmed by engineers, robot can minimize the risk of surgery. To be specific, robot is able to point on the diseased or damaged part of body and operates surgery on the exact position that the tendency of failing surgery becomes extremely rare. Furthermore, people do not need to worry about the point on the moment of decision because the operator of the surgery robot I human beings. According to a writing from one government website, robotic surgery is not operated by robot itself but it is supervised under the control of human surgeon. (Robotic Surgery 1-2) Therefore, robotic surgery brings both advantages of human and robot which are judgment and accuracy. 
Robot also offers new way of treating disease. Until now, people could not heal the diseases such as cancer and leukemia because of their unique characteristics that hold us from finding a cure. However, as nano-robot technology develops, people could find a way to treat the diseased cell by putting nano-sized robot which carries special resources. In this method, patients do not need to be suffered by radiation therapy which not only kills diseased cells but also destroy healthy cells. Therefore, using nanorobot on medical purposes will reduce the pain and the risk of people substantially. However, some people argue that nano technology encounters some serious obstacles. They claim that it is hard for experts to design the extremely small size of nanorobot and all of the deatailed function in the small robot. To prove its qualification, one of the science research lab in South Korea claims that the experts from the lab will create nanorobot which offer more efficient way to treat cancer soon. (South Korea) The expert says that the nanorobot would be built with modified non-toxic salmonella bacterias and those would deliver the microscopic capsules to diseased cells which can cure the target diseased cells. 
Some people lose their organs during their life. Some lose those from wars or other may lost those from accidents. For those people, robot can be a great chance to give them a new life. Robot can become new leg, arm, liver, or even heart for people who lost their organs. The robot would be designed to accept electrical signals of human body and works almost similar to the natural organs. Although some people argue about ethical issue of artificial organs, human should use those robots for saving lives of people who are suffering because of missing or malfunctioning organs. According to a writing about pros and cons of artificial organs, the need for replacing or transplanting organs outnumbers the supply of organs (Pros and Cons of Artificial Organs). The writing says that heart failure is the main cause of death in developed countries. In others words, before experts invent artificial heart (TAH: Total Artificial Heart), many of those people died while they were waiting for heart transplant. Therefore, artificial organs like TAH actually enable human beings to save thousands of life who would've died. 
To sum up, robot brings tremendous amount of benefits to human beings in the future although some try to show weakness of it. People would become able to treat serious diseases such as cancer or leukemia with its extremely small size. Robot is also used to help people who lost their organs to live new life with new ones which perfectly function. Ultimately, robot enables human beings to operate surgery with extremely small risk. Therefore, people become able to live healthier life with the benefits that robot gives. 
Work Cited Page 
"Robotic Surgery: Medline Plus Medical Encyclopedia." U.S National Library of Medicine. U.S. National Library of Medicine, n.d. Web. 08 Dec. 2014. <http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/007339.htm>. 
South Korea Claims World's First Caner-treating Nanorobot. Reuters UK. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Dec. 2014. <http://uk.reuters.com/video/2014/01/05/south-korea-claims-worlds-first-cancer-t?video Id=276311659>. 
"Pros and Cons." Mechanical Organs as a Replacement of Human Organs. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Dec. 2014. <http://group1ryerson.weebly.com/pros-and-cons.html>. 
