Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
12 DEC 2015 
Once Dream To Become a Teenage Star, Later Regrets Not Being an Ordinary Teenager 
Nowadays whenever I go outside or even in my own room I could sense the chillness and see the breath from my mouth. Neighbors start to decorate their houses with fancy glittering ornaments and at shopping malls I could see each and every one purchasing elegant well-shaped trees. Sooner or later, it's Christmas. At this time of the year, in Korea, the movie "Home Alone" from all series is shown on TV despite the fact that the movie was released more than 25 years ago. And I, too, always recall my memories as a young child growing up with Kevin Mc Callister, a young bright boy who bravely defends his house from two burglars. However, it is now hard to see Macaulay Culkin - a child actor who played Mc Callister - either in film or on television. According to numerous news reports such as the Fox News, Daily Mail, and CNN, Culkin after gaining excessive fame and love from the public had turned into a drug and alcohol addict. From an audience's point of view, it is such a shame to see a child actor who grew up with me to implode and failing to become a successful adult. Culkin is not the only victim; notable child and teenage stars such as Amanda Bynes and Lindsay Lohan is all child actors who failed to transit to a successful actor and a responsible adult. In this research paper, I will be arguing that becoming an actor at an earlier age is dangerous and harmful. I will be also addressing the negative effects of being a child actor and it will be composed into four different parts: problems regarding how teenage and child actors are highly exposed to drugs, conflicts that develop from less education and socializing, extreme work from parents, and a view point from the opposing side. 
	It is an inevitable fact that teenage actors are exposed to such drugs, alcohol, sex and violence from an earlier age. <name>, who is <position> and also once was a child actor herself, said that "Staying in public eye, even adults, and the amount of anxiety celebrities feel is astronomical." <name> added on by saying that especially with smart phones and advanced technology, celebrities have hard time going out in public without being photographed or recognized. This will cause young teenage and child actors to suffer from heavy stress as their privacy is violated. It may be difficult to fully understand and sympathize with these actors as we, ordinary people won't usually be noticed or photographed whatever we do in public. Everyone could get into troubles and make mistakes for the reason that we are human beings. However, for these actors because they are idols and public figures, people do not have mercy on them. People have tendency to think that public figures such as actors should be perfect at any costs and when there is any rumor or bad news about the actors, people will start to judge and criticize them. These facts apply as a burden to actors even causing them afraid of going out into public. As a result, actors may look for drugs and alcohols as a mean to escape from these kinds of stress and anxiety. 
Also child/teenage actors mainly work with adults and some films even contain inappropriate materials. For example, Natalie Portman from the movie "Leon" was exposed to heavy violence, sex, drugs and alcohol. In fact we can think this problem regarding a common issue that teenagers face nowadays. For example, violent video games can lead to violent behaviors. According to a report by the American Psychological Association, "The research demonstrates a consistent relation between violent video game use and increases in aggressive behavior ... and decreases in ... empathy and sensitivity to aggression." Similarly to a video game, young actors will be observing or acting violent and immodest scenes in the movie. It is right to say child actors have higher chance of being addicted to maleficent behaviors. 
Moreover, by becoming a child and teenage actor, he/she won't be able to have a proper education. Due to their busy schedule, the child would have to miss out most of the classes resulting bad grades. However, some social commentators argue that there is nothing to worry about child actor's education since most of these children are homeschooled by their parents. Also, even though they attend school, nowadays, directors ask teachers and school to excuse the child from any heavy workloads or perhaps delay the school project. <name> talked about her latest play The Betty's Diner where there was a child actor involved; the director had him work on his homework when he was waiting for his scene. 
Although this may be true, homeschooling itself has many negative effects. For instance, according to a survey done by the National Household Education, the homeschooling teachers are usually parents and their education was very poor. Less than 36% of the parents had a college degree resulting the other 60% of parents only receiving high school education or less. In addition, I think that "school" is not just a place where a child attends to hand in his work on time. Even thinking back from my own personal childhood, "school" was more of a place where I learned to make friends and socialize with peers who are of my age. Of course child actors would be socializing with people, but people who are twenty, thirty years older than them. One of the reasons why child stars fall into as drug and alcohol addicts is because most of them do not have people who they can call "friends." Co-workers or colleagues would be the name, but they cannot be a friend who can truly understand and help them. W.C. Fields, a famous American comedian and an actor once said, "Never work with children or animals." It turns out that adult actors also have hard times shooting in the same set with juvenile actors because as Fields described "they don't act the way you want them to". Not only will child actors won't be able to receive the best education, however, they will also lack sociability. 
Next, I will talk about the parent's role and how some of them raise their children to become actors for their own benefits. Embracing the fact those child actors may be as young as a five-years-old or even younger; it is hard to think that it was the child's own decision to become an actor himself/herself. Then who is in charge of these judgements? Yes. It's the parents. Former child actor Mara Wilson who's most famous for Mrs. Doubtfire and Miracle on 34th Street talked about in one interview that she was one of the few lucky child actors who also really liked and wanted what she was doing; however, for some child actors it was not the case. Wilson added on arguing that there are parents who want to gain fame and money through their own children. 
	Not only are there parents who make their children an actor for their own sake, the amount of work a child actor's parent should do and follow are outrageous. Both <name> and Wilson stressed the importance of the parent's role. Since 'rejection' is the name of the game in theatre and films, it is very important for the parents to support their child and make them have a healthy mind. In addition, as child actors are under age to drive, it is the parent's role to take their children to auditions and rehearsals. They also are in charge of preparing the child for auditions and at the same time, keeping up with r sum and searching for auditions. Most importantly, it also costs a lot of money. So, if the parent is not truthfully engaged and just hoping the child to be famous one day, I can admit it is almost impossible to take care of the child in a safe and healthy environment. <name> even compared the parent's role as a "job." Due to excessive amount of work and duty the parents have to do, there are increasing amount of parents who halts the child's career, leaving them back to "ordinary life." However, it's too late - the child will face problems making friends and socializing and since they do not have basic skills in studying, they are likely to fail in classes. 
Becoming a child actor is a very arduous job; it is not a hundred percent guaranteed yet requires a lot of money, effort and time. Also even though a child may have grown into a star actor, he/she will face numerous problems. They will be vulnerable to drugs, alcohol and sex and with the developed technology child stars' privacy would be infringed which leads to stress and drugs. Also, since they are starting a job or a career in an early age, it is questionable to ask if it is truly the child who hopes to become the child actor. Without being able to go to school, they will have difficulties making friends and socializing. Lastly, the roles of the parents are enormous which may cause the parent to give up on their child's acting career. 
	After, researching and interviewing an expert on this topic for months, I have concluded that to avoid becoming a teenage/child actor is a more realistic and safe way. However, I do believe that there is no right or wrong answer, and it all may apply differently to each child and the parent. I have no rights to argue that it is unquestionably bad to start acting when he/she is a child, but I want to warn people or future child actors and parents about the risk that may arise. 
Work Cited 
Khazan, Olga. "Why Child Stars Melt Down: Bieber's Character Split." <i>The Atlantic</i>. Atlantic Media Company, 24 Jan. 2014. Web. 05 Dec. 2015. Marcus, Stephanie. "Mara Wilson On Why Child Stars Go Crazy: Former Child Actor Offers An Insider's Perspective." The Huffington Post. The Huffington Post.com, n.d. Web. 05 Dec. 2015. "Report: 'Home Alone' Star Macaulay Culkin Addicted to Prescription Drugs, Heroin." Fox News. FOX News Network, 01 Aug. 2012. Web. 05 Dec. 2015. Reporter, Daily Mail. "Macaulay Culkin Looks Back to His Healthy Best at NYC Comic Con after 'battling Drug Addiction'" Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 12 Oct. 2013. Web. 12 Dec. 2015. "Macaulay Culkin Charged with Drug Possession." CNN. Cable News Network, 18 Sept. 2004. Web. 12 Dec. 2015. Later, Decades. "Do Video Games Cause Violence?" CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 12 Dec. 2015. "Homeschool Demographics." Coalition for Responsible Home Education. N.p., 10 Sept. 2013. Web. 12 Dec. 2015. 
