Advantages and Disadvantages of Food Therapy 
Food therapy is defined as a way of dieting rooted in Chinese understanding of effects of food on human organisms and can treat some kinds of diseases in a slow progress based on traditional Chinese medicine theory. On the other hand, medical treatment is a treatment that only uses medicines and often has a short period to recover from all kinds of diseases. From one peer-reviewed journal article, on dietitian from Hong Kong, China indicates that food therapy compared to medical treatment has abundant advantages and this use of dietary modification in disease is prevalent among Chinese people. (Koo, 1984) And in my personal opinion, food therapy is a high-quality way to treat diseases can be demonstrated from three perspectives: brings a healthier life to human beings, is painless compared to traditional medical treatment, and has a lower cost of recuperating. 
First and foremost, food as a treating substance must be safer and has less negative effects compared to medicines while provides necessary nutrition for growing and staying health at the same time. As we all know, medicines come from chemical material synthesis and not all the chemical substances are good for our body. Recently, I read a peer-reviewed journal article; the authors indicate that most of the hypertension medicines often have some side effects to rest part of the body, especially the heart. (Sacks & Campos, 2010) Then if patients choose to use food therapy, it will be safer and usually has no side effects. 
Secondly, people just eat fresh and delicious food to treat diseases seems less painful than having bitter medicines or terrible operations. As far as I am concerned, eating is an enjoyable thing. Imagine that patients just eat the food and the nutrition brought by food help patients recovered from diseases, what a wonderful thing. That is actually what food therapy works. For example, if a person has serious cold, doctors tell the person to have a lot of bitter pills to release the painful brought by cold, but eating such a terrible medicine is another painful. However, people who use food therapy to cure cold will only request to have ginger with sugar, an old way told generation by generation to treat cold. I believe ginger with sugar is much tasty than medicines. Also a newspaper writer indicates that it's better to eat than pop in medicines. (Walia, 2011) 
Last but not least, food is a common substance in daily life and the price of fundamental food materials for treating and keeping health is absolutely cheaper than the price of medicines, some chemical synthesis for recovering. When people are sick, they often choose to have some medicines to cure diseases. These medicines always cost a lot of money. I remember that I spend almost 100 RMB to buy medicines just for a slightly cold one time. Sometimes, when people have more serious diseases, like heart disease and diabetes, it will cost more on medicines, even 1000 RMB one period. In contrast, food as a daily intake substance is absolutely cheaper. If people use food therapy to treat diseases, it will cost less because whenever people have disease or not, they always need to eat. 
On the other hand, food therapy also has some disadvantages. Many people think that food therapy isn't effective enough compared to general medical treatment since the treat process of food therapy is too slow and treat result is not obvious. In ancient China, there is just one method to cure disease that is traditional Chinese medicine which also includes food therapy. With the development of western medicine in China, more and more people realize that this treatment takes short period of time to recover and seems more effective, and then they gradually choose western medicine to treat instead of fundamental food therapy, a slow process of treating. Another disadvantage of food therapy is the local limitation. Food therapy is based on traditional Chinese medicine and just familiar with Chinese people. That means that most of the dieticians and patients from other countries never heard of food therapy in fact. I had an interview with a nutrition professor in Purdue University. She told me that dietitians use another way called medical nutrition therapy, a treatment that people use to treat diseases based on the different stages of diseases in U.S and she never knew about food therapy and traditional Chinese medicine theory. 
Although food therapy seems ineffective and cannot known by people all over the world to become a main treatment as soon as possible, I still believe that food therapy is a competitive treatment from healthy, painless and economic these three points. Undoubtedly, food therapy needs a lot of further researches to perfect the therapy and make it suit to more situations. I also hope that food therapy as a traditional Chinese treating method can be spread from China to other countries and combined with different kinds of food and nutrition theories, and then be completely developed and widely used. 
