Introduction 
Nowadays an increase number of people tend to drinking coffee instead of traditional tea drinking to wake them up. This increasing trend to drink coffee is a worldwide phenomenon. So which drink should be the dominant drink to fresh people's mind? Most of people considered that coffee is well smelled and quicker to drink and it also can wake people up. So people started to forget drinking tea. However, drinking tea will provide extra health benefits to people and tea is also associates with traditional culture especially for Chinese people. I will not say stop drinking coffee; instead I will say drinking tea will benefit your health. 
Different compounds in tea and coffee 
	Flavonoids are the most abundant components in tea and comprise of catechins, TFs, TRs and keamfaron (Balentine et al., 1998). Catechins are present largely in green tea. It has high health benefits to people and it also been proved with cancer prevention. TFs and TRs are also linked with benefits to people's health. Theanine is a unique acid in tea that associates with cancer prevention, protects tissue damage and stimulates people's brain to wake up and work. The amount of caffeine contained within tea is depends on the types of tea. 
	Coffee contains a large amount of caffeine and polyphenols. There were no significant researches showed that these compounds in coffee have linked with people's health benefits. However, some researchers found that caffeine associates lots of drawbacks such as irritation of gastrointestinal tract and sleeplessness in certain people. 
Impacts of tea and coffee intake on health 
There are lots of beneficial compounds in tea, so regular consumption three cups of tea every day have been linked to improve bone health. And also there is a positive relationship among tea, attention and mood (Einother & Martens, 2013). However, tea consumption has also been linked to some negative aspects to health. Over four cups of black tea per day will decrease iron absorption by 49 percentage (p<0.05) or 66 percentage (p < 0.01) (Thankachan et al., 2008). 
Consumption coffee has results in lots of disease such as coronary heart, stroke risk, mineral deficiencies and hip fracture. People who intake 5-6 cups of coffee per day will increase the frequency of cardiac arrhythmias in people. People who intake 24 Oz of coffee per day has the increase the risk of stroke. 150-250 ml of coffee intake will decrease the absorption of iron. 
Effect on risk of cancer with tea and coffee drinking 
Load of experiments conducted to test the relationship between tea intake and risk of cancer. According to Jordan and Nagle (2013), they found that any types of tea were associated with "a statistically significant decrease in risk of ovarian cancer." "Tea catechins could prevent pancreatic, bladder, gastrointestinal, and prostate cancers" (Zaveri, 2006). However, only regular consumption of tea can decrease or prevent these cancers. So people should cultivate a good habit to drink tea every day. 
Table 2 (p. 1523) listed the data to show that highly consumption of coffee has tended to increase the risk of ovarian cancer. However, my interviewee professor Datta (2014) said that some studies showed that coffee intake associate with lower the risk of cancer such as liver and larynx. Therefore, coffee intake will have benefits on some types of cancer but be careful that coffee intake will also have drawbacks on other cancers. So coffee consumption should be limited otherwise it may hurt your health. 
Culture value for tea 
	People should not forget tea drinking. Not only because it will benefits people's health but also it has long history and traditional meaning especially to Chinese people. Xiusong (1993) said that in ancient china, people considered that tea represented elegance and drank tea cultivate people's inner qualities. Teahouses are unique in china, it is a place, which allows many strangers to sit together and chat for the whole day with just a cup of tea. 
Tea drinking has a history of four thousand years in China. Coffee appeared in China since 1884. That means coffee has been known by Chinese for only one hundred years. So very obviously drinking tea is the traditional habit for Chinese people, and it has deeply culture meaning for china. Tea should be the dominant drinking to wake people up. 
Conclusion 
	People should not use coffee as the perfect alternative as tea. Tea has lots of healthy compounds, which will benefit people's health compare to compounds of coffee. Any types of tea drinking will decrease the risk of cancer. Coffee drinking will also decrease some types of cancer but it will increase some types of cancer as well. So when consume coffee, people should be aware of this point. Although tea has lots of benefits to people, over taking every day is also not good for people. Too much coffee intake every day will have big hurt of people's health. Apart from health, tea drinking is also linked with traditional habit and culture meaning to China. People can drink coffee for relaxing or one cup per day. Tea should be the dominant drinking for people to consume because it has extra health benefits and culture meaning compare to coffee. 
Reference 
Einother, S.J. & Martens, V. E. (2013). Acute effects of tea consumption on attention and mood. American Journal Of Clinical Nutrition, 98(6), 1700S-1708S. 
Jordan S. & Nagle C. (2013). Comparison of the Effects of Tea and Coffee on the Risk of Ovarian Cancer. Tea in Health and Disease Prevention, 1517-15270 
Xiusong, L. (1993). Chinese Tea Culture. Journal of Popular Culture, 27(2), 75-90. 
Thankachan, P., Walczyk, T., Muthayya, S., Kurpad, A. V. and Hurrell, R. F. (2008). Iron absorption in young indian women: The interaction of iron status with the influence of tea and ascorbic acid 1-3. Am. J. Clin. Nutr, 87(4), 881-886 
Zaveri, N.T. (2006). Green tea and its polyphenolic catechins: Medicinal uses in cancer ad noncancer applications. Life Sci.. 78(18), 2073-2080 
Balentine, D. A., Harbowy,M. E., and Graham, H. N. (1998). Tea: The plant and its manufacture: chemistry and consumption of the beverage. Caffeine, 158(4) 37-68 
