4/12/2015 
P5D1 
Chinese students' communication problem in America 
Nowadays, a large proportion of Chinese international students in American have communication problems. They can't communicate well with local Americans or other international students. As of result of this communication problem, most students choose to stay with other same race students and limited their contact with other international and American students. I think that this situation can be improved, and I suggest every Chinese students to contribute to develop a better communication environment. 
For the main reason, improving this deficient communication can help Chinese students to understand American culture and to have a better adaptability in America. A different culture means a different thinking pattern, especially on academic and social aspects. Many students are suffering from both academic and social cultural shock, and they can't come up with good solutions to deal with it. For the example of academic cultural shock, one of my friend told me that he was very unhappy about his chemistry homework, because most questions in his homework involved many calculations which have large decimal places. I understand why he was feeling in that way, because, in China, normally chemistry teachers would like to focus on whether students have mastered the formulas, so they encourage students to round numbers to integers to reduce the burden of calculation. In America, however, these teachers are more focusing on the application of chemistry, so they remain the decimal places calculation for more accurate result as what it should be in the real world chemistry industry. This is one typical example of academic cultural shock. I was in the same situation before, but l got that after I asked my teaching assistant. Social cultural shock is more prevailed. It is what most Chinese students have complained about don't have same topic to chat with American students; don't realize what behavior is offensive; can't understand why these "non-sense" jokes are funny. These problems seem like trivial and insignificant, but these questions are just the question that how do we start to establish relationship with others. This is a pretty useful social skill, no matter it is in the future of for now, in America or in China. By establishing relationship with other people, you may gain valuable information and reinforce from these new relationships. 
For second reason, by communicating with American students, we can enhance our English speaking skills. This reason seems very simple, but it is really important. Since English is an international language and you can use it in most places in the world. If you are a game player like me, you may know that most of games' languages are English. Maybe you are a travel enthusiast, someone may has told you that most tourist places offer English introductions and route signs. Or you are dreaming to be an entrepreneur or a politician. English is a good choice, sometimes is required, to deliver a speech or a presentation in international communication. It is undoubted that English becomes more and more popular and convenient than it never had before. As students studying in America, it is such waste that we can't optimizing our resources to practice our English skills. Not just reading and writing skills, listening and speaking skills are the same important. But the best way to practicing our listening and speaking skills is communicate with English speakers, Americans. 
For the third reason, a better communication environment can assist forging a better relationship between America and China. There is a well-known saying that: "College students are the future of a country." I believe that, and I think the relationship between Chinese students and American students has a significant influence on the relationship between China and America. Since college students are the elites of a Nation, their words and their ideas represent the tendency of future. Some of them may become lawyers, some may become scientists and some may become politicians, even presidents. Their impressions to another nation's students could influence their decisions making in the future when they choose should they cooperate with this nation's people. Moreover, elites often have incredible effects on society. Their words are influential and trusted by majority of the society. Their prejudices and stereotypes could spread out to other people who have never meet Chinese or American before. Conversely, if we have established a positive relationship between American and Chinese students, their praise and blessing would also float to people's ears in their nations. 
Some Chinese students may wonder that why we have to do such things? We are satisfied with staying with other Chinese students. We can get almost all the assistances we needed from each other without asking help from Americans. This is a good point, and it is reasonable. But, I still believe that we can get better experience and self-develop by interacting and communicating with Americans. Personally, I have learned many things from other American students. One thing especially impressed me is their independence. In China, I was think that I would be independent as long as I leave my parents. But from other American students' stories, I learned that the independence means you know how to survival by yourself, rather than taking money from your parents and enjoying the college life in here. Some American students go to take part-time jobs, apply many scholarships or sign up contract with military to earn money for their tuition fees. I also noticed and learned many other things from them. Some of them are very responsible and seldom ask help from others. They also know how to socialize with other people, always being friendly and nice. My resident assistant Eric is a pilot, and he is always passionate about flying airplane. He usually use sticker note to write down all thing he need to do later today, and he often come up some new romantic ideas to date with his girlfriend. All these new things impressed me and helped me to improve myself. 
Some Chinese students may consider to improve the communication environment is the duty of universities, we can't do anything by ourselves. I admit that universities' support is beneficial, but it doesn't means we have to wait for their support. I insist that communication is a mutual things, and it highly depends on the communication ability from both sides. In Purdue, there is an international program which is meant to help international student communicating with Americans and other nations' students. I was in that program before. Even this program had offered students plenty of opportunities to communicate, but I quit later after I found it didn't work for me because I had a poor communication skills. I often couldn't found proper topic to talk about and had a terrible pronunciation. So I still need to improve my communication skills first. By keep talking to American students and professors, I gradually can pronounce correctly and find the common things we shared in the conversation. 
In conclusion, even thought, most of today's Chinese students still have communication problem with American and other international students, but I encourage my same races to be brave and confident to communicate, and I hope our efforts can motivate more and more other Chinese students to establish better relationship with American students. 
