Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
April 15, 2016 
Students Should Know More 
Many university students these days are hesitating which major they should choose that best fits them. For instance, students who have interest in computers would likely to choose between Computer Science (CS) and Computer Engineering (CE) majors. However, since there is not enough information provided for computer-major students who are choosing their field of study, majority of students who are majoring in computer have to decide with the vague expectation of the major. Hence, more professional and detailed information about the similarities and differences of CS and CE should be provided for university students in order to help them study what they wish to. This essay will urge the importance of providing undergraduate students with adequate information regarding computer majors. 
Since many college students do not have opportunities to get information regarding computer studies, it is inevitable for them to have a wrong idea about computer studies and specifications. So, it is necessary to think of more ways to help college students get a grasp of what specific computer studies will be like. According to Ben-Ari (2011), there are so many common misunderstandings of computer studies and computer programming professions. He states that he decided to write the journal in order to correct the existing misunderstandings and to provide accurate description regarding what computer majors study and what programmers focus on. He urges that misunderstandings about professions and the genres of tracks within computer field exists because of the rapid growth and development in the field of study. This rapid-changing characteristic of computer majors is also one of the reasons why students need more information. More accurate and helpful information about the sphere of computer studies will stimulate students who have special interest in computer majors to maintain their passion throughout the tough computer-studies curriculum and beyond university studies. 
There are so many ways to supply credible information to passionate students. In fact, I think universities are the key to significantly improve the availability of information. When it comes to university students in particular, conferences and sessions held by the school are most convenient to approach. So, universities in the United States should come up with more conferences and speech sessions by experts in the sphere of computer studies. The biggest advantage of the information from universities is the accessibility of the information. Students will easily be notified that the conferences will be held when they see the bulletin board or receive student email. Moreover, the credibility of the information is another advantage that these sessions held by universities possesses. In most of the times, informing sessions through universities are conducted and being said by professors or prestigious experts on computers. As a result, the possibility of the misguided or biased information in conferences via college is significantly low. For these reasons, it would be very helpful for undergraduate students if universities and colleges in the United States hold more information sessions on computer studies. 
There is another future action that can provide more information on the field of study to students; IT companies including software database corporates, can also take part in providing reliable information for college students. Since information about careers and specifications by companies are more up-to-date compared to that by university faculties, computer-related companies should often make opportunities to provide career information to students. It will certainly be worthy if these companies can tell students what they will be working for after they finish their study and begin their career in each division of computer fields. In fact, information regarding which types of division they will be working at, and specific skills that are needed as a computer expert is exactly what majority of computer majors claiming for. However, majority of companies only participate in career fairs in which they sit in the booth to recruit interns or new employee. Rather than only focusing on recruiting students, companies must see the bigger picture and guide students what they should prepare for. Companies then, as well as students, actually benefit themselves because students who received valuable resources from a certain company, are more likely to prefer that specific company when they are graduating and looking for job. 
To sum up, insufficient information on the branch of computer technology is giving university students confusion which lead them to hesitate when they have to choose a specific major. Hence, in order to improve this situation, more up-to-date and accurate information regarding computer studies and professions should be provided to students in order to help them grasp the sphere of study. For this to be accomplished, efforts by universities and companies are essential. When it becomes possible for college students to receive more information about their field of study and various specifications, students can consistently maintain their interest throughout their college years and develop their own passion. 
Reference 
Ben-Ari, M. (2011). Viewpoint non-myths about programming. Communications of the ACM, 54(7), 35-37. doi:10.1145/1965724. 1965738 
1 
