Otaku are harmless! 
'Otaku' is a Japanese term which we use to define people who are deeply obsessed with animations, games and manga. Otaku have been a much-maligned social group in Japan for a long time since the 'Otaku Murder' event, in which a young Otaku killed and mutilated four girls between four and seven during August 1988 and June 1989. But after several decades, the negative effect of this event has faded and Otaku have become an acceptable social group again. Although some people concern about Otaku and think that Otaku still have potential dangers to Japanese society, I still believe that Otaku are harmless. I think the best way to eliminate the concerns on Otaku is to get to know more about Otaku. 
My first reason is that Otaku have huge contribution to Japanese society. According to Dr. Mariko. M. Wei, Associate Professor of Japanese and Linguistics at Purdue University, Otaku usually work in scientific and technic areas. They are professionally engineers, programmers and even scientists. These areas are all unreplaceable industries of Japanese economics. Moreover, Professor Mariko pointed out that since Otaku have jobs with high salaries, compared to non-Otaku people, they would like to put more money in animation, games and related products of animation and electronic product. As a result, the economic impact of otaku has been estimated to be as high as 2 trillion ($18 billion) every year. 
My second reason is that Otaku are creating and spreading Japanese culture. In "Otaku Culture and Its Discontents" written by Takahiro Ueda, a professor from Ritsumeikan University, he believes that Otaku culture has already become an impartible component of Japanese culture. These days, the products which Otaku have made, like Japanese animations, manga, games are pretty popular all around the world. For instance, Hayao Miyazaki's animation films, has very high popularity globally, many of those productions were given the highest prize in film area including the Oscar. As a result, when a foreigner hears about Japan, he or she would probably firstly think of Japanese animations. Even Professor Mariko mentions that she would like her students to get to know Japan through Otaku, because it is really attractive and interesting. As a result, I believe that Otaku are helping promote the cultural communication between Japan and the other countries around the world. 
Although I agree Otaku are good to Japan, some Japanese civilians still had refutations against my idea. First, some people think that 'Otaku Murder' may appear again in the future and Otaku are still dangerous to Japanese society. Indeed, I cannot guarantee that the same horrible event like 'Otaku Murder' would not happen again and actually, there still some people commit the similar crime like the 'Otaku Murder' these days. But technically, those criminals are not Otaku any more. During the interview with Professor Mariko, she expresses her own opinion to 'Otaku Murder' as a Japanese civilian. She says that in fact, people don't count those criminals in Otaku. Several reports also show that those murders actually have psychological problems. In conclusion, she thought that these crimes has nothing do with Otaku this social group, the murders kill little girls only due to their own problems. 
Other Japanese civilians think that Otaku culture seems useless to the reality. I cannot say their point is wrong. But in my own view, I think that these people would think that Otaku culture is useless is because that Otaku culture is too novel to Japanese civilians. According to "Otaku Culture and Its Discontents", professor Ueda suggests that Otaku culture is like a new type of aesthetic. Just as the Japanese traditional aesthetics "Wabi" and "Sabi" first introduced to the world by Arata Isozaki in his exhibition in Paris in 1978, people in Europe couldn't accept them immediately. It will always take some time for people to accept a new type of aesthetic view. Therefore, it is not strange to find that Otaku culture to be rejected by certain part of Japanese civilians. So what I want to say is that Otaku culture is definitely not useless, people who reject it now would accept it after they got deeper understanding on Otaku culture. 
All in all, I think that Otaku are positive to Japanese society. They are creating both wealth and culture for Japan. People who cannot accept them should have a try to get to know about Otaku culture. As they get further understanding of this new type of aesthetic view, they would probably change their views on Otaku. 
