Interview Report (final draft) 
April 25, 2015 
1214 words 
Nuclear Energy Development in Malaysia 
Introduction 
	Energy sustainability is a fundamental block of a nation's prosperity because it allows continuous developmental process to occur within that nation. However, this has been a concerning issue for Malaysia due to its high consumption of fossil fuels to generate electricity. Therefore in June 2009, the Malaysian government officially considered nuclear power to be one of its power sources to ensure energy sustainability and help Malaysia becoming a self-sufficient industrialized country (Lee, 2015). Unfortunately, the public acceptance on the decision has been very negative especially regarding the safety issue of it. Hence, this essay will examine the nuclear energy issue in Malaysia based on scientific, economic and technical perspectives to justify that nuclear energy is a good addition to Malaysia energy production. Those fundamental aspects however, lies on three questions that will be answered which are 1) Why nuclear energy should be develop instead of other energy source, 2) is it economically viable and 3) how to handle the safety issues of nuclear energy. 
Why Develop Nuclear Energy? 
	To understand why nuclear should be developed as one of the source of electricity production in Malaysia; we have to review the scientific advantages and downsides of each current major energy sources in Malaysia compared to nuclear energy. Starting with total output, Malaysia is using fossil fuels and hydropower as its major sources of electrical production, which is around 92.4% and 7.4% respectively as of 2012 (Basri, Ramli & Aliyu, 2014). Professor <Name> noted that the high consumption of fossil fuels is understandable because it is one of the easiest fuels to process. Nonetheless, he noted that the rate of this consumption is unsustainable because fossil fuel is depleting faster compared to hydropower and nuclear energy. Besides, fossil fuels emit the largest amount of green house gases such as carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide, which will breach numerous environmental treaties that Malaysia had pledged to such as the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty to reduce greenhouse gases emission (Basri, et al., 2014). Hydropower, a green energy and the second largest energy contributor in Malaysia, has a limited room for development because developing hydropower dam requires large lake or river, which are naturally limited in Malaysia. With the energy demand in Malaysia rising every year (Basri et al., 2014), hydropower does not seem to be able to support the demand for the long run. Nuclear energy however, is powerful and green. It possesses highest energy density, which is the amount of potential energy store in its fuel. Only a small amount of uranium is needed to provide large power. Professor <Name> also claims that nuclear energy emits zero green house gases on daily operation. In terms of lifespan, the fuels for nuclear energy have a huge future because only 4% of their fuels are used in one energy cycle process (Malaysia Nuclear Society, 2013). If this process technique is improved and more nuclear fuel like thorium is developed, nuclear energy can provide energy for the next 10000 years. 
Is it economically viable? 
	Developing nuclear energy requires a strong financial support to build sophisticated safety equipment and nuclear processing. Professor <Name> supports this notion by describing that the capital cost for building a nuclear power plant is 10 times more expensive than coal power plant. Furthermore, Malaysian Nuclear Society (2014) reminds that development of nuclear energy also requires a lot of human capital investment for a country to have qualified engineers, operators and educated society. However, this does not spell the end for a developing country like Malaysia to have its own nuclear power plant. Currently, 100% of coal used for electrical production in Malaysia is imported (Basri et al. 2014) and this supply is needed continuously to satisfy the energy demand. With these sources depleting, the cost for importing coals will rise and disturb the economical revenue for Malaysia. Given that Malaysia energy demand is increasing and there is no other powerful alternatives to fossil fuels, nuclear is the only power source that is able to provide self-sufficiency for Malaysia. Uranium, the common nuclear fuel, needs to be imported only once in few years according to Professor <Name> and that is why developing country like Taiwan are using nuclear as one of its main power source to ensure no disruption of fuel supply. Besides, nuclear energy development can provide economical stability by avoiding an increasing import of fossil fuels. In addition to that, the daily operational cost of nuclear energy is also the least compared to all major electrical power plants and it can create various job opportunities for Malaysians. Hence, nuclear energy development will be a healthy project for Malaysia economy. 
How to ensure nuclear safety? 
	Being dubbed as a loose cannon by an influential anti-nuclear activist, Hellen Caldicott, nuclear energy weaknesses has been scrutinized by many for a long time. Chernobyl mishap and Fukushima incident are probably the two most notorious radiation outbreaks caused by nuclear power plant and Hellen Caldicott (2006) was quick to denounce nuclear safety by describing the danger that nuclear possesses. She insisted that radiation can cause cancer and to some extent leading to death. However, radioactive materials are actually not something that freely exists in abundance to endanger the public. Nuclear waste is safely handled worldwide by being kept in dry caskets that are stored deep underground and away from the society. There will also be thorough inspection of nuclear safety made by International Atomic Energy Agency to any nation that possessed nuclear power plants. In fact, nuclear power plant itself requires operational license to ensure it is run under international safety standard. Therefore, I believe that nuclear energy does not deserve the bad safety reputation that it is currently hampered with due to the tight safety measurements that are implemented for it. 
Conclusion 
	Based on the evidence given, nuclear energy should be developed in Malaysia to provide energy sustainability and self-sufficiency for the country. The current energy scheme in Malaysia clearly requires diversified energy input and nuclear energy is a viable alternative available to step in line for the current energy sources used in Malaysia. I am not suggesting that hydropower and fossil fuel productions should be decreased or eliminated. Instead, I strongly believe that the addition of nuclear energy will provide sustainable support for Malaysia's energy demand in the long run. I would also like to quote Professor <Name> whom I interviewed for this essay. He said "if we come up with something that solve the problem for 100 years, the guys who get the 100 years to solve the next problem should solve the problem". For Malaysia, sooner or later it has to have a powerful alternative energy before the fossil fuels become too scarce. Consequently, Malaysia should develop nuclear energy before it is too late. 
Reference: 
Basri, N., Ramli, A., & Aliyu, A. (2014). Malaysia energy strategy towards sustainability: A panoramic overview of the benefits and challenges. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 42, 1094-1105. 
Caldicott, H. (2006). Nuclear power is not the answer. New York: The New Press. 
Lee, M. (2015). Asia's energy challenge key issues and policy options. Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge, Taylor & Francis. 
Malaysia Nuclear Society. (2013). Nuclear energy in Malaysia - closing the gaps. Paper is presented at ICEE '13: IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science. doi:10.1088/1755-1315/16/1/012136 
