12A 
Argumentative paper 
Improvement of immigrants' employment circumstance is still debatable 
	Since the first eastern Asian immigrant rush in 1820s, the employment circumstance is never favorable to those new settlers. In the first several decade of immigrant history, Eastern Asian immigrants were treated as coolie which does not have complete civil right and treated like slave. During the 1880 economic depression, a lot of states of America started restricting the employment opportunity for eastern Asian immigrants and enforced this idea by signing Chinese exclusion act in 1882. In the 1924, the congress passed the Asian exclusion act which further restricted the civil right for eastern Asian immigrants. Although all those racism law were terminated until 1952s, the termination of bias in legal system was still not sufficient to protect the Asian immigrants' right in working setting. Even though people already realize the importance of equality in modern era, the power harassment and exclusion of Asian employee are still serious problem in employment system. Such unfavorable condition are caused by three main factors, culture difference, ignorance of media, and lack of continuity of political movements. 
	Because the different linguistic and social value systems, eastern Asian immigrants are difficult to culturally adopt American life even they constantly interact with local Americans. This kind of difficulty not only creates communication barrier but also lead to Ethnocentrism. By the sociology definition, Ethnocentrism means one the tendency to assume that one's own culture and way of life represent the norm or are superior to all others. Page 60 From the New York Time, the interracial marriage rates for Asian American is dipped to 10 percent which is much lower than the average level compared to other racial groups in United States.paragraph 2-3 The low rate of interracial marriage shows that Asian American share quite different values and life styles to other racial groups in America. In other word, other racial groups also hold great bias to Asian immigrants. The lack of interaction can easily lead to negative stereotype, prejudice and discrimination. To be specific, the Asian American is widely be stereotyped as poor communicator, nerd and even academicals dishonest in USA.paragraph 2, 10 Such phenomenon not only cause mental stress and depression but also cause career development issue. From Jason Shen survey, one third of Asian American male thought they are treated worse than white man and eighty-eight percent of Asian American think their race become a barrier of career development.paragraph 4-5 
	Ignorance of mass media is other reason for the poor effect of Asian immigrants' politic action. In USA, the media normally focus on the conflict between groups of African and Latino American and white American because it is widely wanted by majority of population and can create more topics about racism issue which is one of the most popular topic in American media field. In the other side, the Asian immigrants are divided into two different income groups, one is well-educated immigrants with high skill and earn a high income and other one is uneducated refugee and illegal immigrants. In the first group, people normally have reasonable income and stay in the middle class in society. The Medias in USA have the strong tendency to be the voice to the poverty group so the educated immigrants' voice about unfavorable career development is ignored by media. On the other side, refugee and illegal immigrants normally have language barrier so they are trapped in their own culture setting like China town. China town is other dark corner which is ignored by media. In fact, the poverty rate in China is almost three times higher than other urban area in Los Angeles and one third times higher than other urban area in New York. Paragraph 10 In addition, the working time in China is much higher than other place, which shows strong unfair treatment and power harassment toward uneducated immigrants. But because of language barrier and culture characteristics, Asian immigrants normally choose to keep silence. Overall the, the unfavorable working circumstance would not be known by mass media and it won't be published toward public. 
	 Although the large Asian immigrants protest in major USA city caused by the peter Liang's incidence does make Liang spared jail from the tragedy, lack of continuity politic movement causes public choose to forget and ignore the unfair treatment to Asian immigrants. Peter Liang's incidence is not the first case that Asian immigrants are received bias treatment in the legal system. Ironically, there are two different idea toward Peter Liang's case within Asian immigrants. American born Asian called second generation immigrants widely thought Peter Liang is guilty, which is very different from first generation immigrants. This phenomenon shows other difficulty for the continuity of politic movement to improve Asian immigrants working circumstance. 
	To be concluded, Asian immigrants' poor working circumstance has been a long term social inequality issue which cause both social instability and personal dissatisfaction for long term. Although there are a lot of precautions taken to enforce racial equality, the real improvement of Asian immigrants is still debatable for three main factors, culture difference, ignorance of media, and lack of continuity of political action. The culture difference create great communicate barrier between Asian immigrants and majority social group. Then the complicity of polarized population and overgeneralization make media ignore the voice from Asian immigrants. Finally, the Asian immigrants' politics movement lack continuity, which minimize the effect of each individual politics movement. With those three factors, there is still long way to achieve equal employment circumstance. 
Reference 
educationrealist 2013. Asian Immigrants and What No One Mentions Aloud 
149. Retrieved from https://educationrealist.wordpress.com/2013/10/08/asian-immigrants-and-what-no-one-mentions-aloud/ 
RACHEL L. SWARNS New York Time 2012. For Asian-American Couples, a Tie That Binds. 
Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/01/fashion/more-asian-americans-marrying-within-their-race.html?_r=1 
Jason Shen Atlantic 2016. Asian Americans Feel Held Back at Work by Stereotypes. Retrieved from http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/01/asian-americans-feel-held-back-at-work-by-stereotypes/458874/ 
JAY CASPIAN KANG 2016. How Should Asian-Americans Feel About the Peter Liang Protests? Retrieved from http://cn.nytimes.com/world/20160225/c25mag-liang/en-us/ 
