Reasons to study Electrical Engineering at Purdue 
Purdue University 
(Draft 3) 
	As a student in First Year Engineering, it is hard to decide what major I should choose for my major. After a lot of research and having an interview with <name>, an academic advisor from the school of Electrical Engineering, I found that it is a good choice to study in Electrical Engineering at Purdue for the flexible study plan and the variety of jobs to choose and the high hiring rate. 
	Purdue has been famous for its' good engineering education. The School of Electrical Engineering at Purdue has a study plan that is really focusing on guiding their students to success. In my interview with <name>, she introduced the study plan of Electrical Engineering for me. In students' freshmen year, they will be in the program of First Year Engineering. In this program, students will take science classes, a communication class, a writing class and group working classes on engineering topics. These classes will prepare them for further study in Engineering. Then in their sophomore year, there will be basic classes about circuit design. In students' junior and senior year, there are selective classes. Most of the credits in these two years will come from these selective classes. They are provided to let students find out which area is the one they want to do research and take part in the research. The research areas include Automatic Control, Biomedical Imaging and Sensing, Communications, Networking, Signal & Image Processing, Computer Engineering, Education, Power and Energy Systems, Fields and Optics, Microelectronics and Nanotechnology, VLSI and Circuit Design. Since it is a requirement to take part in researches in order to graduate, students graduated from Purdue University will have necessary experience on doing research. 
On the other hand, the school of Electrical Engineering also requires student to take humanity and science classes. (<name>, personal communication, March, 2015) According to Shuman et al. (2005), engineers will need to work and communicate with people from different areas. (p. 44) Engineers will need the ability to demonstrate reading, writing, listening, and speaking skills, identify, retrieve, and organize information, reflect on one's own understanding. (p. 49) The study plan of Electrical Engineering not only teaches students the knowledge about Electrical Engineering but also improves their communication skills by asking them to take part in research or take classes about communication and humanity. The science class will help them to understand the ideas of people from other areas and the product designed by different people. I believe the study plan of Electrical Engineering can get the students ready to work as an engineer because the students were trained to be all rounded and have knowledge in areas other than Electrical Engineering. 
	Because electrical engineers were trained skills in diverse topics. Electrical Engineering is related to many aspects in industry today. According to Sloan Career Cornerstone (n.d), Advanced EE courses prepare students for research, design and development, testing and evaluation, application/manufacturing and management aspects in industry. (p. 12) Theses skills bring them a lot more options in their career. In fact, according to Sloan Career Cornerstone (n.d), electrical engineers can do research tasks to formulate, test and prototype theories, testing and evaluation in the labs, often working with equipment, software, systems and the end users. (p.14) Some people may think that other Engineering major can also be connected to large variety of industries and having a high salary. For example, Industrial engineers can also find themselves fit in many industries for their ability on managing and planning of industrial programs. However, electrical engineers can have more connection to the producing and designing of products, especially in electronic devices, so the companies have a higher demand on electrical engineers. With the diverse skills, electrical engineers can also take part in the selling and management of the business. In fact, electrical engineers enjoy a higher average salary than any other engineers. 
	Industries will not need lots of people to do the management jobs but they will need a large number of people to do the research on new products, test and improve the prototypes of new products to make them suitable for selling on the market. Since electronic devices has been such an important tools in people's lives, every company wants people knows electrical engineering. The huge need from industries brings a unique advantage to electrical engineering students on finding jobs and further development in their careers. According to Worldwide Learn (n.d), Most of the electrical engineers work in scientific research and development firms, electrical component manufacturing companies, power generation distribution, and transmission, manufacturers of navigation controls, medical equipment, and measurement devices and architectural firms. (paragraph 16) With such a large number of options, electrical engineering students will definitely find a job that they truly love. Everyone wants to find a job that he/she can spend his/her passion on it and truly love to do it. The variety of jobs that is available to electrical engineers really makes electrical engineering attractive to college students. 
The variety of companies looking for electrical engineers also makes the hiring rate of electrical engineering high. According to <name>, in the school of Electrical Engineering, almost all the students who are U.S citizens with a GPA higher than 3. 0 are going to find a job after they graduates. Even for those ones have a GPA less than 3.0, they may be able to find a job that is less attractive. Most international students choose to continue their study to get a master degree for higher chance to stay in U.S. There are also many international students who had a higher GPA graduated from Purdue successfully find a job after they graduate. (<name>, personal communication, March, 2015) These hiring rate makes this major really attractive since attending a college is very expensive and students wants to be able to make money after they graduate. 
	In conclusion, it is a good choice to study Electrical Engineering at Purdue because Electrical Engineering students will enjoy their unique advantage on job opportunities and the study plan provided by the school that can really prepare the students for the challenge that they will meet during their work. 
