P5d1 
April 10, 12nd 
The Inevitable Failure of Privacy Protection 
	 The great idea of "connect one isolated computer to another" was formed in the last century when some of the PC companies were trying to develop a work station system with better communication efficiency. This idea has given birth to the Internet, which turns out to be a double-edged sword for our society. Social engineering is one of the common techniques that hackers use to complete intrusion. It has become a major threat of personal privacy. In "Psychology: A Precious Security Tool", the author provided several feasible methods for large organizations such as companies to protect their highly confidential information. As to the individual level, privacy protection is the goal that we want to achieve. When we are facing a social engineering attack, I think it is possible to reduce potentially loss from cognitive bias if we can use critical thinking and reasoning skills. But I am pessimistic about the possibility that we could survive under a customized social engineering attack. In the end, even an ordinary level hacker could get the information that he needs from us and there really isn't much we can do about this. 
	One of the reason why we will inevitably fail to achieve privacy protection is that most of the people underestimate the possibility of the attack. During my interview with a computer science major teacher assistant, even the interviewee failed to aware how easy it is to apply basic social engineering techniques to an individual. One of my friend used to be a young hacker in China, he was only 14 years old when he joined one of the biggest Chinese hacker league. According to him, it is very common to apply social engineering attack even when he does not have a PC in hand. For example, he used to make excuse in order to insert a U-disk that he made to automatically download all the Word document from his teacher's laptop. It is not detectable because this action does not require any program to be run. He could easily cut down the WIFI network in a public place and capture all the confidential information going through the router using a smartphone. For example, once he was sitting in a public library and he saw a middle-aged male is doing stock trading in a chair not far from him. He firstly cut down the man's network and the man became anxious and restarted the computer so that it connect to the fake router he made up to capture information (he just did it for fun but he did get the password of the man's trading account ). He believes that is it impossible for normal individuals to protect themselves even from a low-privileged hacker like him, "Sometimes I am frightened by what I could do. I have several ways to get the information I want even if I don't have a laptop. Most people don't even realize when the actual crime is happening to them." 
	Beside the unimaginable power of the attacker themselves, the defensive system that individual can rely on is incredibly weak. Not like big companies, individuals can only obey the existing policy of internet, such as WIFI protected access 2 and Hyper Text Transfer Protocol. The problem is that all these widely used protective policies are somehow out of date and full of bugs. My hacker friend used to joke about the anti-virus software companies: "We write the code of a Trojan program in 20 hours, it shall be detected by anti-virus after 3 months." With the develop of mobile internet and social networks, those vulnerable protective program and policies become even weaker as time goes by. 
	But many people would say that we could protect our privacy if we stop uploading our personal information to the server and start raising awareness of the issue. I have to admit that it was my expectation that we could protect ourselves using this kind of solution. Unfortunately, it won't help much. The social engineering attack has a chain reaction on all your information. Once the attacker manager to break through one of the loophole in your unprofessional self-defensive system, there is nothing much of you to do. The information won't protect themselves: once the hunter in the darkness found out the breaking point, they are like lambs to the slaughter. 
	In conclusion, I think it is a bigger responsibility for the IT engineers to make better environment for us all. What we could to is to trying to prevent loss when we are facing the attacks. 
