A Bright Prospect of Nuclear Energy 
"Every dollar spent on nuclear is one less dollar spent on clean renewable energy and one more dollar spent on making the world a comparatively dirtier and a more dangerous place, because nuclear power and nuclear weapons go hand in hand." Said by Mark Z, Jacobson, a professor of civil & environmental engineering at Stanford, this sentence exactly described the dilemma of nuclear energy. Although nuclear power plants are cheap and pollution-less when under good running status, they can suddenly be turned into dangerous bombs that not only cause huge explosions but also radiate the atmosphere and heavily damage the environment. However, we can afford the risk of nuclear energy because it is the cleanest energy source and has the best efficiency among all other sources we are using, and we have good methods to reduce the risk. 
Most people are concerned about the risk of nuclear accidents, but the results of such accidents are not as severe as their thoughts. First, a lot of articles and reports say the radiation of nuclear accident can kill many children, whose immunity systems are weak compared to adults'. In fact, the infant mortality rate after the nuclear accident is much lower compared to the expectation. According to Vidal (2010), the World Health Organization (WHO) claimed only 56 children's death can be directly attributed to the Chernobyl accident, but the International Agency for Research on Cancer, a professional UN agency, predicted 16000 deaths. The WHO also says that only a few children died by cancer caused by the Chernobyl accident, most of the illnesses are due to the side-effect of the Chernobyl accident, such as psychological stress, radio-phobia, poverty and unhealthy living but not the physical damage by radiation. Moreover, more and more people who have left their homeland during the evacuation after Chernobyl accident returned to the region near the Chernobyl Coffin because they know the remaining radiation is not so serious. There is no any illness or death related to radiation reported among these people returned. Secondly, some people often compare nuclear accidents to nuclear bombs, but they are completely not comparable. The power of an explosion of a nuclear plant is only one-twentieth to one-thirtieth of a nuclear bomb. Not only is the direct explosion, the radiation of a nuclear accident is also tiny compared to that of a nuclear bomb, because the reaction scale is much smaller and a nuclear bomb doesn't have any cover to protect the surroundings. 
Another concern is about manually mis-operation, which is the reason of the accident of Three Miles Island and Chernobyl. However the worry is unnecessary because the rapidly developing computer-based technology has prevented such accident from happening. Compare with the condition in the time of those two accidents, when almost all operations are made manually, modern nuclear plants use processors programmed by experienced engineers to analyze data and do correct operations as humans could which are much less likely to make mistakes. In the recent years, automatic control systems have protected a lot of reactors from natural disasters. For example, during the Taiwan earthquake in 1999, three reactors at Chin Shan and Kuo Sheng automatically shut down and reignited in two days after the earthquake stopped. In August 2005, the Onagawa nuclear plant in Japan was turned off by the automatic control system and stayed safe after the 7. 2 magnitude Miyagi earthquake. Many events like them have testified the reliability of automatic control systems. 
Nuclear energy has its particular advantages, very low carbon dioxide emission and low operation cost. Carbon dioxide emitted by fossil fuel plants can cause heavy air pollution and greenhouse effect which could worsen the global warming, but nuclear plants only emit negligible amounts of it. According to a report by the World Nuclear Association (2011), the average lifecycle emission (the average emission rate of a facility which includes carbon emitted during its construction and the emission of producing fuel) of all operating nuclear plants is 29 grams per k W h. Compared to coal power, whose average emission is 880 grams per k W h, nuclear energy is much cleaner. Moreover, only 1% of the lifecycle emission of a nuclear plant comes from its operating process, most of it is due to the CO2 emitted when producing materials used in its construction and extracting uranium fuel. Although the cost of generation of nuclear plants is almost the same of coal plants, it saved a lot of pollutant cleanup fund which cost millions of dollars every year. Additionally, in my interview with Mr. Thomas, a graduate student of electrical engineering at Purdue, he told me the radiation of a nuclear plant is actually lower than that of a similar size coal plant, because the large amount of coals in the storage of a coal plant contain more radioactive elements and were not closed by protect shells. 
The negative effects of nuclear accidents are not as severe as people think and we can prevent them from happening, if we can solve any problems that were detected and be prepared for unexpected disasters. Its pollution-less but productive feature is the only way to meet the increasing demand of energy without doing too much damage to the earth. These irreplaceable advantages of nuclear power are worth our effort to deal with its risk, we should not fear it but instead to do our best to apply it for the humanity. 
