Government and Public Should Unite and Fight the Pollution of Streets and Sidewalks 
Argumentative Paper 
26th April, 2015 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
The conditions of the streets and sidewalks in my hometown, <place> , are becoming worse day by day as a result of pollution. People throw rubbish all around the sidewalks which lay there for days before the collectors clean them. My argument is that although the carelessness of the people gives rise to pollution, the government should take a strong stand against pollution and fight it along with the help of concerned citizens. In the past few months I have gathered information to back up my argument and read articles of different experts on the topic of polluted streets and sidewalks. I have found that most of the authors as well as the interviewee agree with my argument that the government and public should work to alleviate the threat faced by <place> due to pollution. 	Keywords: pollution, streets, sidewalks, government, public, rubbish, alleviate 
Government and Public Should Unite and Fight the Pollution of Streets and Sidewalks 
	In some cities the threat posed by the dirty conditions of streets and sidewalks is becoming more and more severe with time. <place> , the capital of Bangladesh, is once such city which faces the threat from the primary levels of pollution. As a citizen of <place> it is my concern to make my hometown more livable by trying to help solve the problem of pollution. In an attempt to help the city I have done extensive research by reading articles of different experts on the topic of polluted streets and sidewalks and interviewed an expert, Ms Shweta Singh, Assistant Professor of Environmental and Ecological Engineering and Agricultural and Biological Engineering at Purdue. My main argument is that although the carelessness of the people gives rise to pollution, the government should take a strong stand against pollution and fight it along with the help of concerned citizens. From the information I have gathered, I have found that most of the researchers agree with my prime argument that it is the responsibility of both the government and the citizens of <place> to ameliorate the situation of pollution for the well-being of the people. 
	Among the numerous reasons of the pollution of the streets and sidewalks, the one which causes the most harm is that pedestrians throw papers, containers, cigarette butts, packages and all sorts of trash they have on the sidewalks (Shepard, 1991). The most common problem is the carelessness of the people towards the environment and cleanliness (Hassan, 1998, p.191). However, it is also true that the number of bins and the trash service is not maintained properly in <place> which makes the people litter the sidewalks and the streets. Hassan (1998) also argued that there is one bin for 1375 people producing more than 480 kilograms of waste per day. Furthermore, the bins are so small that they overflow with garbage only after a short period of usage as a result of which people throw the trash beside the bins polluting the surrounding areas. The garbage lie there for days until the collectors collect them and dump them in the dumpsters but the shortage of collectors also slows down the process of garbage disposal. Mulamoottil & Hassan (1994) stated that most of the solid wastes which pollute the environment are organic and compostable matter. Furthermore, people also dump unused, antiquated furniture on the alleys (Poston & Reyes, 2014). This problem is shared by both Los Angeles and <place> . Domestic wastes along with the wastes from the industries fill up the sidewalks and clog the drainage systems adjacent to the buildings. Odors from these wastes make it difficult for the pedestrians to walk. This information shows the inefficiency of the management system in <place> . This supports my argument that the government should introduce stricter laws to ensure that everyone abides by them and do not litter. 
	Mulamoottil & Hassan (1994) stated in their article that "During Eid-ul-Azha cattle are slaughtered, mostly on the roads. A sample survey in one of the populated areas of the city during a field study revealed that almost 80% of the cattle are slaughtered by the side of the road and large quantities of blood are left to decompose." This is another pressing issue which deteriorates the situation. Ms Shweta Singh agrees with my argument by saying, "The government should fine the people who are responsible for public urination which is another major cause of the street pollution" (personal communication, March 2, 2015). The street vendors also contribute to the problem by blocking the pathways and dumping their garbage there (The Lexington Street sweepers, 2013, August 26). The government should take necessary measures to discourage such acts of irresponsibility by the vendors. 
	There are numerous problems which give rise to the pollution of the streets and sidewalks but in order to fight the threat posed by this pollution the government and people of <place> should work together as one unit. The measures taken by the Bangladesh government should become stricter with the fast growth of the population and urbanization. The citizens think that the government should become more concerned about controlling pollution (Biller, Garb, Negev, Sagy & Tal, 2009). Mulamoottil & Hassan (1994), Biller, Garb, Negev, Sagy & Tal (2009) agree that the government can pass strict laws to penalize people who think who break the codes of conduct. For example, public urination is a crime in New York City and the citizens of New York abide by this law. Financial penalties can make people follow the rules. As Ms Shweta Singh said, "Social behavior is contagious. If someone sees a person doing a good or bad thing then it usually gets transferred to another person. So if you see a person taking care of cleanliness then you will definitely want to help by contributing in cleanliness as well" (personal communication, March 2, 2015). Spreading the public message about cleanliness is momentous as we need to make the citizens aware of the need for a healthy environment. More effective solutions include increasing the number of bins and increasing the number of people responsible for cleaning the bins and drains. Provisions of proper drainage and slaughterhouses by the government can help solve some of the problems. The government should also ensure proper cleaning system of the streets. When the garbage is being carried by the trucks after they have been collected from the bins, the trucks should not be open in order to prevent the falling of light rubbish on the streets. Another method is to raise public awareness through media, posters and activities, for example school cleaning day of the streets (Biller, Garb, Negev, Sagy & Tal, 2009). Moreover, initiatives by non-profit organizations to boost the spirit of the citizens to maintain cleanliness can prove to be an effective method to make the public aware. Technology can also be used in better decomposing methods and recycling processes (personal communication, March 2, 2015). 
	Through extensive research I have found several methods which can be implemented in order to reduce pollution of streets and sidewalks. My main argument that the government and public should work together to fight the pollution is supported by researchers such as Mulamoottil & Hassan (1994), Biller, Garb, Negev, Sagy & Tal (2009) and Shepard (1991) when they mentioned that the government should ensure that the citizens abide by the laws. Although the carelessness of the people contributes mostly to pollution, the government can increase the facilities and penalize the law-breakers financially. Once the threat faced by <place> is reduced the pedestrians can walk comfortably and will not have to be worried about the unhealthy environment. My research will help me get one step closer to solving the problem of pollution in <place> . 
