Alcohol Related Problems among U.S. College Students and their Preventions 
Alcohol Related Problems among U.S. College Students and their Preventions 
"If something bad happens you drink in an attempt to forget; if something good happens you drink in order to celebrate; and if nothing happens you drink to make something happen." (Kuehnert, 2009) Like Stephanie Kuehnert described in her book Ballads of Suburbia, drinking has become part of the daily life in America, college students are in no exception. However, with millions of youths not or just turning into 21 years old, college campus is such a unique place that college students are among the most risky population related to drinking problems because of their characteristics. Actually, due to both exterior and interior reasons, college drinkers are more easily to engage in binge drinking, suffering more serious consequences compared to other age groups and deserve more complete protections. In order to find out effective solutions to this issue, I conducted an interview with a beverage manager in Purdue University and read a lot of relative materials. In the rest of this paper, I will demonstrate the reasons why this phenomenon exists and how to prevent college students from the negative effects of binge drinking. 
According to John R. Knight from Harvard Medical School & Department of Medicine, he pointed out that alcohol diagnosis has become quite prevalent among U.S. college drinkers (p. 268) in his well-known article "Alcohol Abuse and Dependence among U.S. College Students". "More than 30% of students reported one or more symptoms of abuse and more than 40% reported one or more symptoms of either abuse or dependence (on alcohol)." (Knight et al., 2002). Another research finished jointly by both Harvard School of Public Health and Boston University suggested the situation that "Heavy drinking peaks during late adolescence and early adulthood and is especially common among 18 to 24 year-old young adults who attend college." (Hingson et al., 2005) And these similar research results are not accident. In college campuses, students spend most of their time in a totally new and independent environment compared to high school campuses, in addition with a higher demand of social recognition as well as better studying skills. When facing with stress or unpleasant emotions, many of them choose alcohol as a "cure" instead of improving their own coping skills. According to Borsari from Brown University, negative self-image is positively related to heavy alcohol use among college students (Borsari et al., 2007). Moreover, looking for sense of belonging in social facilitations is also a drinking motive. Heavy drinkers often endorse drinking as a good way to draw attention and make friends, in other words, being popular among their peers in comparison with lighter drinkers (Borsari et al., 2007). As I interviewed with Courtney W. Wade, the Catering & Beverage Manager of Purdue Memorial Union, she mentioned that while college students are in lack of parent's supervision, self-control, and the understanding of their own limits, they tend to "drink simply to get drunk". This can also be explained by the common mood that students are likely to rely on their perceptions of others' behaviors to guide their own. Because "everyone else does like that", college students can easily place themselves in a binge drinking situation, especially in a social occasion. High participation of drinking games in these occasions leads to the result as well. 
Apart from the influence factors in college campus environment, there're also interior reasons for students' drinking issue. As Quinn claimed in one of his articles published on Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, personalities play an important role in deciding college students' drinking behaviors (Quinn et al., 2011). Everyone specific individual has different needs of sensation seeking, which has a positive relationship with binge drinking. When a person has high desire for sensation seeking and risk tolerance, he/she is more likely to involve in heavy drinking behaviors. Other factors affecting students' behavior choice include pre-college alcohol use and parental influences. Despite the minimum drinking age of 21 in the U.S., a large amount of freshmen still come to college with established drinking patterns which are generally maintained or even increased during the 4-year school life. In Borsari's research, "25% of students who didn't engage in heavy episodic drinking adopted this style of alcohol use during their first year." (p. 2066). Additionally, parents' attitudes toward alcohol strongly affect students' drinking style, especially in the first two years of college. Those experiencing worse consequences from alcohol use are proved to have greater levels of parental approval for drinking, especially from their mothers (Borsari et al., 2007). Compared to peers, parental influence is even potent for college students since it's usually established in the early stage of drinking and can affect their decisions subconsciously in a long period of time. 
Although college binge drinking has been considered a severe problem by U.S. society, there's still different voice from researchers and academic institutions. As stated in an article "Alcohol Use and Related Problems among College Students and Their College Peers: The Competing Roles of Personality and Peer Influence", the researcher believes that non-college individuals experience more alcohol-related problems than college students (Quinn, P. D. & Fromme, K., 2011). According to the article, this conclusion comes from the data analysis of 6,391 college students' samples and tallies with previous longitudinal findings by Helene R. White from Rutgers University. Nonetheless, this conclusion relied only on samples from limited areas in the U.S., and there are no real nationwide researches to prove that college students are having less alcohol related problems so far. Since most of other researches focusing on the same topic all indicated the opposing point of view with more data analysis from a larger range of samples, this claim is not persuasive enough comparatively and still cannot become the mainstream view. 
Based on the analysis above, we have reason to believe that college students get involved in binge drinking easier and undertake worse consequences, because they have less family- and full-time job related responsibilities as well as more temptations and spare time in the campuses compared to other age groups. Hence better alcohol prevention policies should be implemented to protect them. As for this issue, researchers from the University of Texas suggested that U.S. colleges ought to enhance the collaboration with campus-related communities to eliminate the incentive factors of binge drinking (Ringwalt et al., 2011). This is a rather important part of prevention strategies since environment has proved to be highly influential on students' drinking behaviors. Besides, screening can also be an effective tool in recognizing at-risk students. As mentioned previously, both the extent of sensation seeking and pre-college alcohol use have positive relationship with binge drinking. That's not all. Race, gender and religiosity also link to different drinking types. Anglo-Americans, men and less religious students generally drink the most in U.S. college campuses according to Borsari's research. Therefore, U.S. colleges can require students to finish online assessment regularly taking these factors as potential indicator of alcohol-related risk, in order to help identify at-risk students and prepare for intervention in advance. Furthermore, increasing students' alternative activities in their free time is also a good choice for colleges. Interesting volunteer work and alcohol-free parties can reduce students' time contacting with alcohol. Meanwhile, increase the learning of socialization and stress coping skills can release students from drinking heavily under these anxious situations. Because students' demand for alcohol beverages is extremely price sensitive, college can also make effort on increasing the price and reduce the availability of alcohol. Finally, parental interventions should be included as well. They should be realized how much can pre-college education affect a student's drinking behavior, and they should also receive guidebooks regarding the consequences of college binge drinking and direct their kids correctly on alcohol use. 
In one word, all the preventions listed above are to change the culture of college drinking and protect students from the negative effect of alcohol. Youths from 18-24 years old in the colleges are more vulnerable exposed to alcohol than any other group, and they deserve more attention and protection from school, communities, parents and government. Although researchers and scholars in the nationwide have put forward thousands of ideas concerning this issue, the practical implementation of the preventions in most campuses is still not satisfactory. Hopefully, there'll be better strategies applied in the future to create an environment for college students to enjoy alcohol safely and pleasantly. 
