The Efficacy of Standardized Testing Is Still Questionable 
	Standardized testing refers to any forms of tests that are administrated and graded in a consistent way, intended to measure the achievement of students objectively. One if the most common examples of standardized tests is the college entrance exam, such as Gaokao in China, and SAT and ACT in the United States. Although the use of standardized testing is very popular in many countries, the efficacy of standardized testing has been debatable. Many people believe that standardized testing is completely ineffective, being a waste of money and resources. 
	Firstly, standardized testing fails to serve the purpose of itself, which is to measure how much students have achieved. A score simply cannot represent the accomplishments of students comprehensively. There are a lot factors such as leadership and self-discipline are usually ignored in standardized testing, while these characteristics are significant indicators of the growth of students. The sad thing is that college admission offices often utilize standardized test scores as a simple way to weed out applicants. Some people may claim that standardized testing does evaluate the critical thinking and mathematical skills objectively. While in fact, the evaluation was superficial. According to Alfie Kohn, an American lecturer and author that has expertise in education, there is a correlation between high standardized test scores and relatively shallow thinking. Under time pressure, students use shortcuts to eliminate the wrong answers and attempt to get the right answer as quickly as possible without actually thinking about how to solve the problem, or understand the given article in thoroughly. Unfortunately, these behaviors are encouraged and rewarded by standardized testing. 
	Secondly, standard testing is not as objective as the proponents of standardized testing claim to be. Equivalent content does not automatically equals to a fair test. There are factors that might undermine the objectivity of standardized testing. For example, different cultural backgrounds would result in different ways of thinking, which leads to cultural bias in standardized testing. Students from countries outside the U.S. might not be able to score as well as American students on exams like SAT. From another perspective, cultural bias also results in hypercorrection. Sonia Sotamayor, who is the first Latina Supreme Court Judge, acknowledged that the cultural bias was "built into testing", and considered herself as "a product of affirmative action". She got lower standardized test scores then many of her classmates, but was still admitted into Yale and Princeton due to her ethnicity, since Hispanics has been considered unprivileged in education. Such cases showed that standardized testing cannot be used as an objective evaluation benchmark for students. 
	Thirdly, standardized testing is extremely costly for both the public and the students. According to the research conducted by Matthew M. Chingos, a Senior Fellow at the Urban Institute that specializes in education, 45 states in total spend about $669 million annually on testing. Undoubtedly, the money must come from tax payers. The public is paying a really high price for testing the achievements of students, which is still a debatable statement. Moreover, standardized tests such as ACT and SAT has become an expense for many high school students. An economist, Richard Phelps, believes that standardized testing is cost-effective, claiming that prices charged for commercial standardized tests like SAT, ACT and AP are "ranging from $20 to $70 per student". In fact, the price of one AP exam might be exceed 100 dollars since the assigned schools that host the exams have the say in price, speaking from personal experience. Despite that, Phelps forgets to consider the humanity part of standardized testing. Many students would take SAT or ACT several times to boost their scores. It is also common that high school students would take both SAT and ACT to see which one is the better fit. Furthermore, multiple AP tests and SAT subject tests are necessary for students to take, because some colleges require these scores as well as SAT or ACT. Thus, a student might need have to spend several hundred dollars on standardized tests, which could be a financial burden. 
	Overall, the standardized testing has more disadvantages than advantages. The concept itself is deficient or not able to be testified properly. Even though the name suggests fairness, standardized testing is often unfair and biased towards certain groups of individuals. These students might not get the opportunities that others would get and their rights are being jeopardized. In addition, the cost of standardized testing is huge, not only for the states, but also for students. It is not worthy to have such expense because of standardized testing. 
