P5D3 Argumentative Paper 
April 16, 2015 
Why are majors stereotyped with ethnicity? Focus: <name>. 
	According to historical data one can say that people living in closed knit groups tend to pursue similar kinds of things. If we go way back to stone age we realize that there were only two groups : Hunters and gatherers. It wasn't surprising that the son of the leader of the group was expected to be the next in line as Alpha. In modern times, the son or daughter of, for example, a doctor or a businessman is expected by not only parents but also by society to walk in their father's footsteps and take over his practice or business. This kind of typical parental behavior and societal expectancy has been found across the world. Before I did a thorough research, I had pre-conceived notions that only ethnicity influenced one's choice of a study. However, my research stated otherwise. It clearly pointed that there are three major influencers: ethnicity, gender and parents that play a pressing role in a child's choice of career path. 
	"There is considerable evidence to suggest that student majors are segregated by race and gender" say Stephen R. Porter and Paul D. Umbach 2005 in their paper COLLEGE MAJOR CHOICE: An Analysis of Person-Environment Fit. Their research paper also brings light to another pressing factor: gender. Women tend to venture into education or nursing because of female gender role orientation. Also, when I interviewed Kimberly Powers, the Associate Director for International Undergraduate Admissions at Purdue University, she mentioned that there were a lot of women in Management but not so much in Engineering. Moreover, this research paper clearly states that "Blacks are more likely than Whites to choose interdisciplinary and social science majors over science majors, while Hispanics are more likely than Whites to choose an arts & humanities, interdisciplinary or social science major over a science major". Being born and brought up in <place>, when I came to college here in the United States I met a lot of <name> who were enrolled in technical science majors but not so many in the college of education and hence I can relate to this paper. But, on the other hand, Kimberly Powers felt that ethnicity wasn't as major a factor in deciding a child's career as parental influence was. 
	Gerhard Sonnert in his paper Parents Who Influence Their Children to Become Scientists: Effects of Gender and Parental Education says that "parents certainly make a difference for their children's interests and career choices". Parents tend to push their kids into pursuing a particular major because they strongly believe that the said career in the field would bring in abundant money. Also, each parent thinks that his/her child is special and can take over the world single handedly. And hence they end up pressuring their child because they feel that his/her potential is unleashed when pushed. Parents constantly think about their child's future. But sometimes they end up forcing instead of influencing their child to pursue a particular major. All in all, children fulfill or are forced to fulfill their parents' wishes and reach the goals their parents' set for them. 
	Having established that ethnicity isn't the 'only' force, there are more influencers involved as well. Sonnert 2005 also mentions that "Career choice is subject to many, often cross-cutting, influences ranging, for instance, from general cultural patterns and the young person's values to considerations of job security and earning potential, from peer pressure to inspiration by teachers, and from prior preparation and skills acquisition to confidence in one's abilities and to one's emerging identity and self-image." This was backed up by Kimberly Powers as well. According to her, apart from parents, gender and ethnicity, high school education, friends and relationships also influence one's choice of major. High school education molds a child's mind as to what he or she wants to pursue in life. People in general end up choosing a path about which they know something of. Hence without surprise, students tend to look into career choices which include subjects that they have already studied and mastered in high school. But sometimes, parental influence is much more forceful and pressing. As far as friends and relationships are considered, according to Kimberly Powers, they do influence a student's choice of career but not a whole lot. 
	Conclusively, we can say that there are a lot of factors that influence a person to choose his/her choice of major. Some influencers like ethnicity, parents and gender are much more pressing than other influencers like high school education, friends and relationships. Pushing or influencing a child can either lead to a laid back future or can potentially lead to a train wreck. This is because some kids blossom and prosper under pressure whereas some crumble. Having said that, one can't come to a conclusion without being influenced in one way or the other in life. 
