4/17/2016 
The Negative Effects of Stereotypes 
	On February, 5th, 1999, a shocking incident occurred in the US. Amadou Diallo, an unarmed Black man, was killed by four NYPD officers. When Diallo was pulling out his wallet and trying to show them his identification, the officers fired forty-one shots at him in seven seconds since they mistook the wallet for a gun. Looking to another case happened on August 9, 2014, Michael Brown, an eighteen-year-old black man, unarmed was shot by a white police officer, Darren Wilson. When going through our memory, we can come up with a fair amount of examples supporting that "white people shoot unarmed black suspects more often than unarmed white suspects", which is called the "shooter bias" (Markman). In fact, this kind of unfair biases and the stereotypes of black men (e.g. black men are dangerous) causes the negative influences on those innocent people. However, not only the stereotypes provide effects on the black community, but other people from diverse ethnic backgrounds. From my perspective, therefore, the stereotypes do negatively affect our society. 
	According to Baumeister and Bushman, the stereotypes are defined as the "beliefs that associate groups of people with certain traits" (2017). It is one of the "heuristics", that is, the "mental shortcuts" that people use to "quickly estimate the likelihood of uncertain event" (Baumeister and Bushman, 2017). In fact, stereotype is usually divided into two perspectives, "perceiver" and "target" (Khan, Benda and Stagnaro). For the aspect of perceivers, most of the stereotypes appear unconsciously. Khan, Benda and Stagnaro conducted an experiment which required some college students to list the traits that can best describe people from different ethnic groups. The results of this experiment highlighted that the automatic stereotypes could be generated due to either one's past experiences or the own opinions. As for the aspects of targets, they, in fact, sometimes accept and are convinced that the stereotypes are actually true and may suffer from "stereotype threat", that is, "the fear that one might confirm the stereotypes that others hold" (Baumeister and Bushman, 2017). 
For starters, the stereotypes can impair one's performance indirectly. The stereotypes may affect people's anticipation of certain groups thereby influencing the people's attitudes and behaviors. This phenomenon is called "self-fulfilling prophecy", which means "a prediction that ensures, by the behavior it generates, that it will come true" (Baumeister and Bushman, 2017). For example, correlation between IQ scores and "socioeconomic status (SES)", "0.40", has been proved repeatedly through numerous experiments, which is substantial enough to prove the relationship between IQ and SES existed (Croizet and Claire, 588). Those teachers who already know this relation will have the stereotype that the students from poor families are supposed to have lower intelligence and perform worse than kids from middle-class families, which decreases the teachers' expectation for these poor kids. Teachers' attitudes toward the students from low-status families will become negative thereby caring and teaching less to these students. The changes in attitudes and behaviors can actually render the students from "low socioeconomic background" perform badly and therefore justify the anticipation eventually (Croizet and Claire). 
Furthermore, someone's potential abilities can be thwarted by stereotypes. As I mentioned above, "stereotype threat" is defined as "the fear that one might confirm the stereotypes that others hold" (Baumeister and Bushman, 2017). As an example described from Shih, Wout and Hambarchyan, an African American may be afraid that if one fails on a math exam, he or she may accepts the belief that the failure confirms the stereotype of low intelligence and thereby doing worse on the exam and preventing him or her to pursue further on the mathematical field. Moreover, others may inhibit someone from challenges that may result in his or her suffering from stereotype threat. For instance, <name> , a college undergrad I interviewed is an Asian, and she is planning to major in psychology. Since Asian students are generally stereotyped as great in mathematics but poor at humanities or liberal arts, she was always being told that she should change her plan and try to major in some subjects that Asians are conventionally good at. However, these suggestions may damage her confidence and restrain her from continuing studying psychology. She, though, has a great deal of interests in psychology, and her potential capacities in psychology may be impaired because of those who maintain stereotypes for her. 
It is certain that stereotypes are quite convenient since they provide us a way to judge others quickly and effortlessly. Since we are busy in the today's society and we do not have much time to speculate each person we meet carefully, the information given by stereotypes are enough for us to handle most of our daily social interactions. Besides, stereotypes sometimes can bring positive influences to certain groups of people. For example, Khan, Benda and Stagnaro argue that women are usually stereotyped to be poor at quantitative skills but good at verbal skills, while Asian American are thought to be the opposite. However, they also conducted an experiment and discovered that when their Asian identities were primed, "activating an idea in someone's mind so that related ideas are more accessible", Asian American women have better performances on quantitative skills but worse when their female identities are primed (Baumeister and Bushman, 2017). This experiment definitely proved that the stereotypes can improve and assist in the performance of certain social groups. 
Obliviously, it is rather difficult to change people's opinions due to the "confirmation bias", that is, "the tendency to notice and search for information that confirms one's beliefs and to ignore information that disconfirms one's beliefs" (Baumeister and Bushman, 2017). However, we should not cease trying to fight against the formation of stereotypes. Since most of stereotypes happen unconsciously, it is essential to educate more, let the public be aware of them, and try to reduce them consciously. Also, the cooperation among different ethnic groups are necessary. All of the groups should strive toward the same goals, while role models may be effective to lead the transition. Besides the effort from the public, the "support of authorities, law, or customs" can be powerful and pervasive for people to change their minds (Khan, Benda and Stagnaro, 4). 
It is undoubted that stereotypes have a few positive influences. It provides sufficient information quickly, helps us save the efforts of speculation, and sometime boosts the performance of certain groups. However, the information brought by stereotypes can be inaccurate, and most of stereotypes can impair one's performances and thwart his or her potential capabilities. In order to reduce the negative effects of stereotypes, it is crucial to educate the public and make attempts to reduce it through conscious methods. Also, the cooperation between different groups and the supports from established authorities and organization are needed to make our society a better place. 
Reference 
Baumeister, Roy F., and Bushman, Brad J.. Social Psychology and Human Nature. 4 th ed. Chapter, 5-1c, 5-3, 5-5a, 13-1, 13-7a, 13-7c. Boston: Cengage Learning. Web. 2017. 
Croizet, Jean-Claude and Claire, Theresa. "Extending the Concept of Stereotype Threat to Social Class: The Intellectual Underperformance of Students From Low Socioeconomic Background." Pers Soc Psychol Bull 24. 6 (1998): 588-594. Web. 
Khan, Saera R., Benda, Teena & Stagnaro, Michael N. "Stereotyping From the Perspective of Perceivers and Targets." Online Readings in Psychology and Culture 5.1(2012). Web. 
Markman, Art. Shooter Bias and Stereotypes. Psychology Today. Web. 12 Oct. 2012. 
Shih, Margaret, Wout, Daryl A, and Hambarchyan, Mariam. "Predicting performance outcomes from the manner of stereotype activation and stereotype content." US: Educational Publishing Foundation 31(2014). Web 
"Shooting of Amadou Diallo". WIKIPEDIA, 1 Apr. 2016. Web. 
"Shooting of Michael Brown". WIKIPEDIA, 16 Apr. 2016. Web. 
