Wake Up, Only Application System is the Murder 
Looking through the whole educational system, I believe the university application should be the key stone around other aspects. The university application system not only is the door to university but is the leader of high school students, influencing those students in many area. As a student having studied in China from 10th grade to 11th grade, and finally having applied universities in the US, I fully realized the importance of university application system. It actually contains recruitment's criteria, opportunities provided to students and admission committee, with each of them has impact on students development and opportunity of going to university. 
Criteria used in the system influence one's development more or less. For China and the US, they have different university application system. The one in China is to do with Gaokao, for most of high school students in China. Comparing with this, the one in the US would be more complicated, which requires SAT, GPA, Application Essay, rewards received during high school, recommendation letters, and TOEFL, the one only for international students. From my perspective, those supplemental materials above can be considered as criteria that influence students' development in high school. Different criteria has very influence on student. In terms of those standard tests such as Gaokao, SAT, and TOEFL, they have students concentrated on learning, guaranteeing students to receive those fundamental knowledge required by tests. Although those knowledge may seem to be only useful in tests, it gradually shapes students' opinions related to social issues, souls with which to feel the daily life, and judgments toward things around. Students grow up thanks to those tests. Speaking of Application Essay, it depends on universities. While some universities ask students to write down their reasons of applying such university, some hope students to write down thoughts such as that how the world shape their dreams. When students think about those questions, most of them would start reflections of their life, seeking for their goals, dream, and they themselves. After such reflection, the way to future become more clear and brighter because, throughout a process of thinking, they would be steadfast in tracing dreams. Another criteria, rewards received during high school, likewise plays a vital role on students. In order to enrich background or experience, students in high school would make efforts to taking so much competitions. Even though this might be too harsh for students, it actually forces them to learn comprehensively and deep; it somehow makes them to be competitive than others. Not only could rewards make deep impressions on university but also enhance students' personality. In terms of recommendation letter which may be written by people that understand so well, it indirectly push students to build up strong relationship with others, especially with those noble people. And that is to say, students learn social skills outside the class room other than knowledge printed on textbooks. That criteria used by university application system are truly change and influence students in a positive way. However, not all of those criteria are considered in the China's system which almost only contains examination. As a result, students and high school become scored-oriented and only care about number from tests. Even though some schools have a lot of activities by which students to be influenced and thereby gain such experience, not so much students devote themselves into activities, especially for those introverted students because there are not such object or assessment to force them. Consequently, some students might not have any rewards or good social relationship after high school. And this situation is happening in China. 
Opportunities provided by different university application system are different. The obvious one example should be times that students have for tests. Gaokao, as I have mentioned is only way to university to most students, is held only once a year in China. Therefore, like the title I put for on another essay I wrote, it is a one-shot gambling. Students put their 12-year effort on this test. If one fails, the way out is quit or waiting one more year. On the contrary, the application system in the US allows students to take tests many times and to submit it tests' scores more than once in order to let them show the best to university and prevent a situation that the very test is to determine one's future. University is a place providing more chances and opportunities to students, isn't it? However, under such system in China, could one deny that luck doesn't play a role in it? Luck should not takes part in this game. On the other hand, from my point of view, the difference of opportunities exists in choosing universities when one apply and after being accepted. According to the policy applied in Gaokao, students have to complete a form of priority of university they want to get in after the Gaokao, before knowing the scores. In this situation, guessing the scores, students might be over cautious, worrying about missing top university for higher scores than they guessed or not being accepted by university for lower scores. Moreover, after being accepted by the certain university, one is only allowed to enter this university and no changing remained on the platform. Everything ends at that point. Therefore, this rule would led to higher-scores students studying missing top universities. On the opposite, the application system in the US totally run in a distinctive way. By allowing students apply unlimited universities and choosing universities that accept them, the system protect equal opportunities for students. University application system should consider about that. 
While those invariable characteristics exist in two systems, there is one flexible thing exists in university application system, which is called admission committee. In each system, even the one in the US, there are conflict happening during reviewing students' materials. Therefore, the admission committee exists as lubricant, reducing conflict and ensuring fairness as much as possible. For example, according to one counselor working admission committee in Purdue University, when students are on the border of lines, he would bring those material to the committee and have discussion with other counselors in order to make it fair both to that students and other applicants. By doing so, guarantee of fair decision is made. What's more, in order to keep personal criteria away from reviewing applications, admission committee holds training for each qualified counselor every summer, prior to the start of application, based on his statement. However, the admission committee in China does not have those functions. It only decides incoming enrollment's number. As a consequence, admission committee is more scientific for it has more reasonable functions, providing further chances for students. 
In conclusion, in comparison around criteria, opportunities, and fairness, the system in China reduce students' chances going to top universities, and more importantly, it is hard to ensure divers development of personality not to be covered by the only criteria, Gaokao. As a result, application system murders students those potential opportunities, making it so hard to enter top universities without high scores. Improvement ought to be applied on the system. 
