Online stores win over offline stores
For many years, offline stores used to be viewed as indispensable in people's daily life. People usually went to supermarkets and department stores once a week. When sellers offered discount, the frequency that people went to these stores even enhanced. However, with the popularization and development of the Internet, shopping online has become an irresistible tide. Additionally, not only the young enjoy online shopping, but also the old are shopping through the Internet. What's more, many offline stores have cut down the size of their stores and sell their goods only through online stores. Based on these phenomena, I believe online stores will replace offline stores. There are three principal reasons: time, price and trust.
First, online stores attract a large number of people due to time saving. Customers have a lot of work to do during the weekdays, they don't have enough time to walk between rows and rows of shelves and then pick the goods they want. Chu, Chintagunta and Cebollada (2008) mention that customers prefer online shopping because of time burden. According to the previous research, Urbany et al. (1996) and Putrevu and Ratchford (1997) find that time pressure is negatively related to cherry-picking behavior. Fox and Hoch (2005) find that the likelihood of cherry picking is higher on weekends than on weekdays. Chu, Chintagunta and Cebollada (2008) inferred that consumers choose online shopping during the weekdays because they are lack of time. In addition to save customers' time to go to offline stores, online stores salvage customers' time by promoting quicker accomplishment of online shopping. Alreck et al. (2011) realize that time-pressured consumers want to finish every step from log on, check out to log off with minimal time and exertion. Such customers compress time to address themselves to various activities and achieving them concurrently. Online stores gain more customers if they focus simultaneously on time-saving and faster completion of online shopping.
The second reason that online stores will replace offline stores on account of price. Online stores offer greatly lower prices than offline stores. <name> used to be an agent of a famous luxury brands in China, but he quitted his job and established his online store. When I interviewed him, I was surprised to find that his selling price was nearly half of the selling price of his old offline store while his profits increased. He indicated that he can diminish his selling price because he has lower costs. He has no inventory pressure, lower operating costs and fewer clerk wages. Additionally, price promotions or free shipping boosts the frequency of online shopping. Close and Kukar-Kinney (2010) indicate the relationship between frequency and incitation of consumers' online shopping cart use. As stated in the data through the article, 93% of the customers buy the goods when there is a special promotion. Customers are willing to purchase more goods when they want to get a special promotion or reach the price limit of free shipping. The lower the price is, the more the consumers prefer online shopping.
The third reason is that online stores develop trust with customers. If online stores can securely hold customers' private information like names or card numbers, customers prefer shopping in these stores. Mc Knight et al. (1998) broke the trust level into two distinct parts: (1) trust belief and (2) intention. Trust belief revealed the attitude of online seller whether they are sincere and honest or not. Intention showed if this seller could notify the possibility for an online transaction loss in advance. Developing trust among first-time visitors to online stores is also essential. As reported by Lim et al. (2006), they investigate the effectiveness of various trust-building strategies, especially for first-time visitors to online stores. They find that endorsements by similar peers positively influenced consumers' attitudes toward online shopping, which ultimately led to actual buying behaviors even they are first-time visitors to online stores.
As shown above, online stores will replace offline stores owing to time, price and trust. Additionally, the joint regulation between online stores and the government should be more rigorous and more extensive. Under the great development and progress of online stores, they will replace offline stores eventually.
