Argumentative Essay: The future of Japanese tourism 
On March 11, 2011, there is a 9. 0 magnitude earthquake and tsunami happened in Japan, and it caused the meltdown at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant which almost destroyed Japanese tourism. In that year, there is a dramatic decline in arrivals about 28.1% because some tourists worried about the harmful effect of the nuclear disaster. Accordingly, I believe that the future of Japanese tourism should be pessimistic at first, however, three professional online reports states the opposite opinion that the future of Japanese tourism will be optimistic because of the continuous growth of Japanese tourism in 2013, upcoming 2020 Summer Olympic Games, and the registration of UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
From Euromonitor International (2014) and Grant (2012)'s reports, they indicate that Japanese tourism is growing continuously in 2013. That is because consumer confidence and recreational activities are improved by the economic recovery in Japan. In addition, government also provides some support for improving Japanese tourism like offering lower visa requirement for southwest Asia. This new visa requirement directly increased the number of international trips to Japan into 10 million in 2013. The increasing number of visitors from Southeast Asia will have an excellent influence on the future of Japanese tourism. Furthermore, Japanese domestic tourism will recover to their 2010 level in 2014 because of the strong yen and declining population and predicts that the number of arrivals from China, South Korea, and Taiwan in 2014 will be more than that in 2010 and the number of domestic tourism in Japan will rebound to 305 million in 2016. Although the natural disaster and the nuclear crisis in 2011 cause international tourists not going to Japan, this situation began to change recently because China became the fastest-growing source market for Japanese tourism. These information directly shows that the future of Japanese tourism is bright and hopeful. 
Furthermore, Euromonitor International (2014) mentioned that Summer Olympic Games and Paralympics in 2020 will be hosted by Japan in Tokyo. In these report, they also predicts that hosting such a huge sporting event is also a great opportunity to assist Japan to reach its target of 20 million visitors by 2020 and broaden the international tourism market. The huge amount of visitors will help Japan to get away from the effect of the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant and encourage Japanese economic recovery. This upcoming event will provides a huge group of potential customers for Japanese tourism in 2020, it can prove that the future of Japanese tourism still have a lot of possibilities. 
On the other hand, Mt Fuji, the highest mountain in Japan became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2013. Although Mt Fuji has been a world-wide well-known sightseeing place for both international and domestic tourists for a long time, the successful registration of UNESCO World Heritage Site still make more and more visitors come to see and climb the beautiful Japanese Mountain. What's more, after Mt Fuji joined into the UNESCO's list, there are more local shops, restaurants and Japanese traditional hotel near Mt Fuji so that it also encourage the tourism of surrounding towns and cities during summer 2013. This phenomenon shows that there are still a lot of people want to come to Japan because of the beauty of Mt Fuji although it is just 2 years after the meltdown at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. 
In conclusion, from these sources I found, I figure out that the future of Japanese tourism should be optimistic not pessimistic although Japan faced the meltdown at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. The effect of that is not long-term, Japanese tourism began to get away from the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant in the recent several years. The continuous growth of Japanese tourism in 2013, upcoming 2020 Summer Olympic Games, and the registration of UNESCO World Heritage Site which I mentioned in this paper totally proved that there are still a huge amount of visitors and potential visitors want to travel to Japan although there was a meltdown at the Fukushima Nuclear Power. Accordingly, the future of Japanese tourism will be bright. 
Reference 
Ang, B. (2014). Japan has high hopes for tourism. Canadian Travel Press, 47(5), 1-10. 
Retrieved from 
http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hjh&AN=99048010&site=ehost-live 
Grant, M. (2012, March 13). Travel and Tourism Analyst, Japanese Tourism Flows One 
Year On from the Disaster. Retrieved from 
http://www.portal.euromonitor.com/portal/? Jlaja Ae FVK1G1gj GLPL%2fh Q%3d%3d 
Siebet, L. (2013). Japan tourism set to blossom Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland. Issue 
3046, 	p20-20. 2/3p. Retrieved from 
http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=buh&AN=90148848&site=bsi-live 
Stalker, I. (2014). The bloom is back for Japan. Canadian Travel Press, 46(22), 1-9. 
Retrieved from 
http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hjh&AN=94670278&site=ehost-live 
Euromonitor International.(2014, September 13). Travel and Tourism in Japan, Industry 
Overview. Retrieved from http://www.portal.euromonitor.com/portal/? Ge Up HM2F3n HKXz7w Ra Vq IA%3d%3d 
