How Can we Stop ISIS 
As the days go by, ISIS grows stronger exponentially. This notorious radical army led by a delusional leader, who convinced helpless men into joining their cause. ISIS says that they are doing what Allah has asked them to do, but is killing children, women, and other helpless people what Allah has asked for? ISIS is a growing concern, and people from all over the world are wondering what should be done to stop ISIS. Some of them say that we must stop them right now before they get out of control and start a third World War. Others say that we should wait and see what happens after the liberation of Syria because if we interfere now the Syrian people might get caught in the line of fire. I have found a better solution than both of these ideas, which is doing both of these ideas. We must fight them back in the areas that do not belong to Syria, like in Iraq. If they are not expanding their land into Iraq then they will get frustrated and they will start looking for hope in another place such as Syria. This move will ensure the safety of the Iraqi people and the liberation of Syria, but that will leave ISIS in charge of Syria. When they move their operations into Syria, then we leave them be. After they liberate Syria the United Nations can move in and annihilate ISIS once and for all or let the Syrian people handle them. In addition, the Interpol or any other International organization can limit their power by cutting off their sources of income, such as: the crude oil they sell, private funders from all over the world, money from looted banks, and extortion. Handling their sources of income is the best way to approach this problem because it is not going into war against them, but at the same time we are trying to stop them from moving forward. 
	We should stop ISIS right now because if we don't then they will become unstoppable without a full-on war against them. If we don't, then think about the amount of blood that will be spilled, women that will become sex slaves, and children who will become slaves and workers for them. That is the cost of leaving ISIS without trying to stop them. ISIS might mask their campaign with nice words or with an honorable end goal, which is spreading Islam, but the true goals behind ISIS's campaign are "To restore the caliphate, territory, followers, money, and revenge (especially against the US)" said Johnson (2014). To achieve the caliphate, ISIS is killing every Muslim who does not agree with them. To acquire the territory, ISIS are killing people who refuse to give up their land. To gain more followers, ISIS is enslaving women and children and taking them under their protection. To fulfill their revenge, ISIS is killing innocent journalists and publishing videos of their executions. How do these actions explain ISIS's goals? The answer is they don't. 
	However, we should also consider helping Syria by pushing ISIS into Syria. Right now no one is trying to help Syrian people with their civil war. It has been almost 3 years now, and nothing is going to stop al-Assad's regime except ISIS. ISIS has taken over almost half of Syria, but they stopped their advance into Syria because they know that no one will help the Syrian people except them, so they focused on their operations in Iraq to tie the world's hands and force the whole world to do nothing against ISIS. Because if they succeed in stopping ISIS then the hope for the Syrian people is lost. We can limit their influence in Iraq by simply fighting them there in Iraq. However, Iraq is country with pride, they like to fight for their country and people on their own. How can we help them then? We can send the Iraqi people supplies or we can stop the people who are supplying ISIS. "The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), now threatening Baghdad, was funded for years by wealthy donors in Kuwait, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia" says Rogin about who are these suppliers (2014). ISIS must have a type of crops that they grow to feed its people. Targeting their food supplies is a great idea to weaken them. However, if we drive ISIS into Syria then they will get rid of al-Assad's regime and then take control Syria, which is an issue with my solution. We can ensure that ISIS never takes over Syria by helping the people who currently opposing al-Assad and they are the Syrian liberation armies. Right now all they have is their troops and few weapons that won't make a difference. The liberation armies don't stand a chance against al-Assad's regime because they are an actual army with military grade weapons. If we supply the liberation armies with the proper weapons to fight the regime and ISIS, then they can take back their country drive ISIS out of it and then they can live in peace once again. 
	We can stop ISIS if we can make the smart choices. If we take my approach, which is fighting ISIS in Iraq. Then we can stop ISIS, but it might take a while, but it has a positive and a sure outcome. We can help the Syrians with their civil war, restore peace to the Iraqi lands, and we can help the world by annihilating ISIS. We do not need to send thousands of troops to stop ISIS. We can weaken them by destroying their food supplies and sources, weapons caches, and their sources of funding. This will enrage ISIS, and it will cause disruption in their ranks. ISIS's People will start to doubt their leader and eventually will break from ISIS because it is no longer a safe place for them. ISIS will die slowly, but surely if we fight them with the smartest choice making sure that the Syrians will survive[DC1] to rule over their country once again. 
Reference List: 
Johnson, M. (2014, January 1). Deviant and Pathological: What Do ISIS Extremists Really 	Want? NBC News. 
Retrieved from http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/isis-terror/deviant-pathological-what-do-isis-extremists-really-want-n194136 
Rogin, J. (2014). America's Allies Are Funding ISIS. The Daily Beast. 
Retrieved from http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2014/06/14/america-s-allies-are-funding-isis.html 
[DC1]Good argument. Very interesting. However, you didn't include the opposite argument. Discuss the strongest argument against your own. Look at the questions I posed above. These are some questions that any reasonable critic of your argument would ask. You should address them in your refutation paragraph. 
Also, your essay should be double spaced and Times New Roman font. You should have a cover page formatted like the one in the sample essay I sent you. 
HOW CAN WE STOP ISIS		1 
