12 November 2015 
Social media influence teenagers 
Claim/Argument: Although society now concern a lot about negative aspect on social media, such as cyber bullying and sexting, but people forget to realize the importance of social media, because the main function of social media is a share space that can spread information in the fastest and quickest way - The benefit of social media outweigh the negative effects that teenagers can get form using it. 
I. Social media is not the only place that you can posts things to your friends or family. It brings more benefits than what we can expect. 
a. Facebook, twitter Instagram are three of the social media most teenagers use. 
b. After all the articles about pros and cons on social media, I figure it out that social media creates tons of benefit that outweigh the negative cost from it. 
c. During teenagers life's now day we cannot live without social media because it is so important that is not only a tool for share space but also improve life style, education or even future careers. 
II. Social media brings up quality of social life. 
a. Facebook let us bring more trust with each other which bring more close relationship and also create more socialize society. 
b. Using social media as a tool to have a nice conversation with family, for instance teenagers in college most likely live without parents, instead of traveling back to home social media become a nice tool for chatting and sharing daily life.\ 
c. Social media also bring a lot positive effect on health. 
i. "We looked at how much total support, emotional support, companionship, and instrumental aid adults receive. On a scale of 100, the average American scored 75/100 on a scale of total support, 75/100 on emotional support (such as receiving advice), 76/100 in companionship (such as having people to spend time with), and 75/100 in instrumental aid (such as having someone to help if they are sick in bed)"(Keith Hampton 1). 
III. Social media creates faster life style. 
a. Social media creates a cheapest and fastest way to spread the information to all people around the world. 
b. The reason why the speed is like wild fire is because social media cannot control the right of speech which can spread news faster than media on CNN, FOX news or other medias. 
c. The important aspect behind speed of information can solve problem that we have faster than before. It is not a simple question that can solve by searching on internet. But question that haven't be solved that can gather people's knowledges and ideas to find the solutions. 
i. "The use of social media can tailor messages much more effectively; link people who have common ideas and can help each other."( Kathleen Koster ) 
IV. Social media benefit on dictatorship country or even create accessibility in Government. 
a. In dictatorship country, social media becomes a tool for people break the government block and connect the outside world. 
b. Social media brings communicating Info About the Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill 
i. The Environmental Protection Agency, however, has also used its existing social media muscle to communicate how it is monitoring and responding to potential public health and environmental concerns. (Alexander B. Howard) 
c. Social media create a place called Fed Space - A Social Network for Federal Agencies 
i. "Social media and government is the new way that agencies or officials share or gather information, collaborate with the public in addressing the grand challenges for the 21st century or build better policy through online engagement. (Alexander B. Howard) 
V. Social media brings greater functions on business. 
a. Social media becomes a tool for marketing the company's products. Spreading information on social media cost zero money and also spread their information efficiently. 
i. "In order to reach their long range goals, a business needs to have a solid social media strategy that focuses on marketing itself effectively. (Adam Groff)" 
b. Social media creates a space for problem solving on companies products. 
c. Social media brings customers opinions and suggestion on improving the product. 
d. Social media let small or median size companies grow when facing larger companies' competition. 
VI. Some people argue that social media create severe damage but it can be solved. 
a. Social media create a share place that means your personal information can be spread to people around the worlds with legal access to your personal profile. This problem can be solve by create a better regulate software that can protect customers privacy and rights. For instance Facebook have option that can set your profile only can be view by friends. 
i. "Unintended consequences of revealing these sorts of risky information include damaged reputation, gossip, stalking, identity-theft and the use of personal information by third parties" (Vanderhaven 1). 
ii. Therefore the negative effect that Vanderhaven mentions can be solve by regulate software. 
i. "A local community Web site with a social media forum in it was the source of the libelous rants accusing him of being a pedophile and a drug addict. The libelous postings about Cooley negatively impacted his ability to find work in Blairsville and surrounding communities" (Aziriel 1). 
ii. Therefore this negative effect can be solve easily by law or terms. 
c. Social media said to bring mental illness, depression and obesity etc. these health effects consider to be serious negative effect. 
i. "Children and teenagers can learn antiviolence attitudes, empathy, tolerance toward people of other races and ethnicities, and respect for their elders"(Victor C. Strasburger 762) 
ii. "Based on his visits to other schools and universities, the incidence of mental illness among teenagers appeared to be rising. This was manifest in eating disorders, self-harm, abuse of supplements to "bulk up" in the gym, obsessive compulsive disorders and even attempts at suicide."(Greg Hurst). 
iii. These effects can be solve through friends or family by giving positive advices or positive energy. 
iv. The biggest problem on social media might be cyberbullying and false information. But social media want to prevent the rights of speech (first amendment) it cannot really be solve but rather limit by social media's companies or law. However the best way to deal with is just ignore and have a positive view toward them. 
VII. Social media create more benefit then costs. 
a. Social media creates a share space that create a benefit that can benefit technology, economy, education, democracy and also better life style. 
b. People in today society too focus on the negative effect and forget the real purpose of social media 
c. Social media is just a tool. There is no good or bad by using it. The only reason that people think social media is bad is that minority people make them worse-off. 
d. In my opinions, social media is good for teenager (or all people), because negative effect can be easily solves but positive effect we cannot find anything that can replace the ability of social media can do. 
