12/13/15 
Negative Portrayals of Female Characters in Anime 
	Based on the recent news published on The Japan Times website, "U.N. rapporteur urges crackdown on impunity for child sex offenders", the author, Tomohiro Osaki, reported the latest visit of United Nation expert in Japan. Maud de Boer-Buquicchio, "U.N. special rapporteur on child prostitution and pornography" conducted a thorough investigation of sex offense in Japan. Some of the forms of child sex offense are "joshi kosei aka high school girl, chakuero and erotica" that show teenage school girls in revealing and "sexually provocative" clothes. After conducting the investigation, De Boer-Buquicchio suggested Japan to embargo on Japanese comics with severe content of child pornographic. The news suggested child sex abuse can generally occur due to the ways women are portrayed in Japan entertainment industry. Japanese cartoon aka anime, one of the phenomenal Japanese entertainments is loved by people of different ages. Though anime can be a great medium to learn some life lessons, it can also be a disaster if the contents show inappropriate scenes to the viewers. Among the scenes shown are high school girls being bullied, teenage girls being raped and women wearing revealing attires. These anime scenes suggested there are stereotypes of female characters' portrayals in anime. 
	I believe women are portrayed negatively in anime. They are usually portrayed as mentally and physically weak, damsels in distress and sex objects. Women in this context are not only adult women but also underage girls. The issue of women being portrayed negatively in anime should be given a serious attention. Instead of banning the possession of child pornography which does not apply to Japanese comics and cartoons, we should focus on ways to change people's acceptance of the issue, such as giving constant awareness to people about the severe contents of pornography in anime which usually involve women in it. In this paper, I intend to provide examples in anime that show women negatively. By using these examples, I will further explain my argument on the created anime scenes in terms of historical development and expert's opinions. Lastly, I will provide an argument of why constant awareness can be an effective way in changing people's mind about a certain issue. 
	First and foremost, a typical stereotype of female characters' portrayal in anime is they are usually depicted as mentally and physically weak. Female characters are illustrated as persons who cannot make their own judgements on certain things which sometimes make them look mentally handicapped. In Tokyo's Shinjuku, "the red light district workers" act like they are stupid to show innocence about certain things. This act of innocence sometimes make the workers look really stupid in the Westerners' eyes (Velgus 56). Anime sometimes implements this act of women acting as mentally weak to mimic innocence and gain sympathy from men. In Stepping on Roses, Sumi Ashida, the female protagonist, agreed to marry a man she did not know just to pay her brother's debt. She also went to a man named Nozomu Ijuin's house despite knowing Nozomu's love towards her. She took a shower there and acted like she was in a huge shock when Nozomu took her clothes so she could not run away. Sumi Ashida is indeed a "clever" girl. 
	In addition, female characters are shown as individuals who need men to defend them when they are being bullied and when their rights are violated. For example, in anime, Jigoku Shoujo or Hell Girl, in the beginning, Ai Enma was seen as a girl who needed to be protected by her male cousin, Sentarou, from the bad kids in her village. When Ai Enma was chosen by the village's leader to be sacrificed in a certain ritual, her parents secretly asked Sentarou to hide and took care of her wellbeing. After her hideout was known, she was buried alive by the villagers. She came back to life and burned the entire village to exact her revenge. When I watched this anime, I was wondering why Ai Enma's parents let a boy to take care of their daughter and why Ai Enma cannot defend herself when other boys tease her? Why it has to be after her death that she resurrected and magically possessed the "strong power" to fight her right? 
	On the other hand, not all anime portrayed female characters as physically weak. Japanese movie like Princess Mononoke depicts woman as a fighter. Other anime such as Sailor Moon shows woman as a fighter against evil. Even though they are portrayed as strong main characters, ironically, they are usually being represented as "kawaii" or cute with their round big sparkly eyes and cute costumes. Kawaii was started to be associated with women during the Shogunate period from 1192 to 1867. During this period, Confucian women were seen as "docile and dependent" or in other word helpless (Shiokawa 95). The way women being portrayed as kawaii make them look vulnerable. If the anime producers really want to show women as strong, they should consider cutting out the kawaii element displayed in female fighters. 
	Besides women being portrayed as mentally and physically weak in anime, another stereotype of female characters' portrayal is they are illustrated as damsels in distress. Female characters are shown as persons who need to be rescued by their handsome knights in shining armours. This kind of illustration in anime began in the middle to the end of 70's where women were depicted as the hero's cute but helpless girlfriends (Shiokawa 109). In Naruto Shippuden, we can see Sakura, one of the main characters always needed to be saved by her boy comrades, Naruto and Sasuke. She usually took actions without considering the dangerous outcomes. Even though she was a strong "shinobi" and was blessed with a super strength, when facing enemies, she often needed to be rescued. Female character is also personified as a "prize" that only the strongest man can get. In a certain anime, we can see fights occur between two or more men because of a woman and she usually falls for the most masculine man- the hero. This masculinity stereotype is dangerous as it creates a male power fantasy to attract a girl and make her his possession. 
	Last but not least, the common stereotype of female characters' portrayal in anime is they are sexually objectified by the way they dress up and the way they are treated by other male characters. Most of the female characters in anime will wear pin up clothes that show their big breasts. This type of depiction began between the end of 70's and early 80's when the pornographic genre was established for adults. The girls in boys' manga began to wear attires that showed their big breasts (Shiokawa 110). Cute women were depicted in the explicit sexual circumstances such as "rape and bondage". On top of it, female characters or heroines in manga or anime were portrayed as naked just to satisfy male readers' or viewers' desire (Shiokawa 118). This kind of illustration of female characters is prevalent in anime. When undercover agent of CNN went to manga stores in the district of Akihabara in Tokyo, he saw shelves full of manga displaying underage girls involving in "violent sex acts" (Ripley, Whiteman and Henry). This finding shows most of the Japanese entertainments display women as sex objects. This is alarming since anime adapted from manga is supposed to convey constructive message to the viewers and not promote partial nudity. 
	Moreover, people usually make jokes about panties and men accidentally touch women's breasts in manga. These jokes are claimed to be incorporated in anime in order to promote cultural awareness regarding offensive actions such as "groping". Other types of "jokes" in manga are abortion, rape and sexual harassment (Brenner 81). In Boys Over Flowers, Tsukushi, the female main character was sexually assaulted and hit by a male character. Surprisingly, no action was taken after the incidence and she did not seem to be traumatised with the perpetrator. They acted normal towards each other and could meet and talk like nothing had happened. This does not seem logical in our real world. According to <name>, a graduate student at <place>, the scene of the female character being sexually-assaulted was created to show the male dominance in Japan. In her country, there is still a general perception among the older people in rural areas of women should just be housewives and not further their studies after graduating from high schools. This kind of perception implies male dominance still exists among the older people in some parts of Japan. 
	The issue of women being portrayed negatively in anime rises a question; should we be concerned with it when the female characters in anime are only inanimate and fictional? Well, although anime is only fictional, some of the anime represent the Japanese cultures and traditions. People can know a little bit about the Japanese cultures through anime. <name>, <position>, stated anime like Doraemon truly portrays the Japanese cultures. Many authors wrote about anime related to the issues of cultures (Denison). The scenes portrayed in anime sometimes have hidden symbolic meanings such as the scene showed in Boys Over Flowers implies male dominance still exists in certain area in Japan. 
	Based on the arguments made about the issue of women being depicted negatively in anime, it is clear that we should not ignore it. A careful measure should be done to tackle this issue. Instead of banning the possession of child pornography in Japan which is not applicable to pornography in anime, we should spread awareness about the wrongness of displaying women inappropriately in anime through mass media campaigns. Mass media campaigns are seen to be effective in changing people's attitude towards a certain issue. People, especially Japanese have to break apart their social acceptance towards pornography which mostly involves women. They should know wrong is still wrong even if everybody accepts it. Mass media campaigns are seen to be effective based on the great achievement of campaigns done on issues like smoking and terminal diseases. According to an analysis of "smaller state-funded anti-smoking campaign" in Massachusetts, teenagers who are exposed to antismoking advertisements on the televisions are less likely to engage in smoking than those who are not exposed to them. 
	In this modern world, campaign awareness can be done through social media like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Based on the article, "What Good Is Raising Awareness", the author, Julie Beck, wrote about the meaning of awareness based on the trend happening on social media such as "Light it Up Blue". Awareness is defined as "sending a message" and getting people's attention by making them talk about it. The author further stated Melanie Tannenbaum's opinion of a way to alert people about an issue is not by telling them what they should do but what other people do. Tannenbaum further elaborated the achievement of doing the latter is people will start to voice out their opinions about the issue promptly on Facebook. In short, if we can set a trending of women being portrayed negatively in anime on social media, people will start to take the issue seriously. Consequently, more research will be conducted on the negative portrayal of women in anime and ways to overcome it without jeopardizing the anime industry. 
	In conclusion, gender stereotype still exists in anime as female characters are portrayed negatively. They are usually depicted as weak, damsels in distress and sex objects. As a developed nation, Japan should take the issue of women being portrayed negatively seriously. They should filter the inappropriate scenes in anime for children viewing and reconsider the relevance of current law. The law, people can still own pornographic contents in the form of anime and manga, is pretty much the same as people possessing pornographic materials but the people in them are inanimate. This measure is important as anime is not only for entertainment but also for real life education as it portrays real life events and drama. 
Work Citation 
Osaki, Tomohiro. 'U.N. Rapporteur Urges Crackdown on Impunity for Child Sex Offenders | 	The Japan Times'. The Japan Times. 2015. Web. 27 Nov. 2015. 
Velgus, Justin. Ai, Love You?. Xlibris, 2012. Print. 
Stepping on Roses. Shueisha: Viz Media, 2012. Film. 
Jigoku Shoujo. Studio Deen: Hiroshi Watanabe, 2005. Film. 
Lent, John A. Themes and Issues in Asian Cartooning: Cute, Cheap, Mad, and Sexy. Bowling 	Green, OH: Bowling Green State U Popular, 1999. Print. 
Naruto Shippuden. Studio Pierrot and TV Tokyo: Hayato Date, 2007. Film. 
Ripley, Will, Hilary Whiteman, and Edmund Henry. 'Sexually Explicit Japan Manga Evades 	New Laws On Child Pornography. CNN. 2014. Web. 4 Dec. 2015 
Brenner, Robin E., and Net Library, Inc. Understanding Manga and Anime. Westport, Conn.: 	Libraries Unlimited, 2007. Web. 
Boys Over Flowers. Toei Animation: Shigeyasu Yamauchi, 1996. Film. 
Denison, Rayna. Anime: A Critical Introduction. Bloomsbury Publishing, 2015. Print. 
Cami, Ann. "The Power of Positive Marketing." The Future of Children. Spring 2008. Web. 	13 Dec. 2015. 
Beck, Julie. "What Good Is 'Raising Awareness?'". The Atlantic. 2015. Web. 11 Dec. 2015. 
