Argumentative Essay(Final Draft) 
April 28, 2015 
1025 words 
Role of the SAT in the admission process for students 
		The Scholastic Aptitude Test, also known as the SAT is a common test, students around the world take to get into colleges, especially in the US. Although this exam is taken by hundreds of thousands of people, the need for the SAT,i.e, its actual purpose has been often debated. Some people feel that the SAT is just fine right now and that it does not need to change, while others feel that the SAT score is not a true measure of a student's academic aptitude. My view is that the SAT should be modified such that it is more effective. Having a separate SAT exam for each country conducted by a single body, like The College Board would help solve the problem or at least improve the testing process. Having such an exam could help eliminate factors such as ethnic race, language background affecting exam scores. I have reached this conclusion after doing research and interviewing an expert in this field. 
Need for a common test 
A common test score is very useful in the admission process. It helps compare students who have had different High School education. For example, it would be hard to compare students from different countries where in one country the score is given by a GPA, while in the other the students are graded through percentages. Thus, in a sense, the SAT ensures a more level playing field as <Name> talked about in the interview (personal communication, March 23, 2015). The drawback though is that the scores of a student in the exam might be influenced by their ethnic race and language background ( Zwick & Sklar, 2005) . So, there needs to be a way in which the students can still have a common exam but are not unfairly chosen or left out for that matter. 
Alternative to the traditional SAT 
The exam should be made separate such that people living in different regions of the world would have a different kind of test based on what they have learned in High School. College Board would still be conducting the tests, giving students the feel of a common exam. Also, instead of having three sections each of the same subject, the scope of testing the student can be increased by including more testing areas. Again as said before, these extra testing areas would stem from what the students from the same country have learnt in High School. For example, students who have taken more Calculus classes than others might have a bit more Mathematics in their paper and people who have taken Science courses might be tested a bit more in Science. By changing the format of the SAT to the new style, it would be able to test students on how good they are at what they have learnt making the exam a more puroseful one. The definition of content validity seems to agree with the fact that a content based exam should test students based on the skills that are to be known by the student.(Alias, 2005) 
By including the subjects, SAT would factor in some elements of the SAT subject tests making this a broader exam. The exam should also contain an essay section which has a topic that is much relevant to the student. The essay in this paper would test the writing skills of the students and also add to the number of factors being considered in the admission process. 
The Quota System in admission process 
Choosing a set number of students from thousands of applications, is a hard process and involves various components such as the reviewing the GPA, SAT scores, personal essays, recommendation letters, etc. Since different countries have different education systems, the GPAs would be different based on what students learn. This is the reason the SAT is included in the admission process. (personal communication, March 23rd, 2015) Through my readings and the interview process, I have come to the conclusion that there is no simple answer to this complex issue. However, I have also come to the conclusion that there is a way that might be more fair than the current system. The admission process should be made such that it is a level playing field for all students. By this I mean, what if students are chosen by comparing their applications with applications of students from the same country? That is, a student from China is compared with other students from China and this would be the same with students from other countries. This would be called the Quota System in some countries. The National University of Singapore and The Indian Institute of Technology follow this system. (The Quota System, 2014) 
The Quota System would not be too bad as it would ensure that the best students from each country are chosen based on their scores in the proposed form of the SAT. The only problem that colleges would face would be setting the number of students they would want to choose from each country. The number of students from the US should be kept at a constant and high number though to ensure their majority in college. 
The proposed exam might not be highly predictive of success of a student in college as say (1) Conscientiousness of a person, (2) In-class attendance, etc. (Conard, 2006), but it could certainly improve the effectiveness of the admission process and eliminate situations such as ethnicity, language background, etc. affecting the scores of students. With the new kind of exam and a modified admission review process, the quality of students chosen could be taken to a whole new level. 
