April 17th 2016 
How do the sociologists study the social problems 
Social problems are the problems or issues that influence a considerable number of individuals within a society and often bring negative results to individuals. Many social problems relate to the economic problems but there is not always a relationship between them. In the real world, researchers always try to use different methods to define social problems. What are the methods? Methods in sociological mean that the ways to investigate into the social problem study. However, in my opinion, sociologists are not yet concluded the "perfect" methods. In this paragraph, I am going to provide some arguments about how sociologists' ways to study social problem. And I will point out the problems for each method and conclude that there is no perfect way to study social problem. Therefore, in this paper, my research question would be: Why do the methods cannot 100% indicate the social problem we studies? 
Social problems are especially important since they might affect a large number of people in a society. And social problems include a lot of issues that individuals care about, which influence their daily life. For example, economic issues including unemployment rate, public health, inequality including gander or statues and education which relate to unequal distribution of funding between public school. 
Those problems all have huge impact on a large group of people in their life. Therefore, here to the question that how we could know or understand that social problem better. What methods can the researchers use to determine whether the issues are serious or not. In order to solve social problems, we must first define them by using appropriate methods. 
The common methods of study any field of study includes observation, recording, classification, hypothesis, verification and prediction. Let's talk about the first method first which is experience method. In Sociology, the raw material of sociological investigation is the human being for whom it is not possible to live within certain fixed conditions so it is not possible to have the laboratory method (According to Shelly Shah). However, we could still observe the behavior of the human being under certain conditions in their life. After observing people's behavior, researchers collect the data from observation. As accurate as they could to avoid the error in recordings. Next step is to come up with the hypothesis and it might provide the explanation of people's behavior or social problems. 
The second common method is the historical method. This method is a study of past events or past civilization in order to understand the society's nature and working. There is an evidence showing that our present forms of social life, our customs or ways of living have the roots in the past, which we could use the history to explain 
today's issues. 
Another common method is the ideal type method. This method has been expounded by Max Weber, Simmel and Durkeim. They reference this method as constructed from concrete cases and evaluate a particular case due to the degree of the approximation to the ideal. 
The three common methods above all apply to the study of social problems. However, each of them is different from another in the way that one could be used in study one particular social problem but another one could not. Each method has its appropriate way to use. The experiential method basically could apply to all the studies but it might be not precise if the data is not accurate of the hypothesis is far beyond the standard. The historical method could not help all the social problems because not every issue happen today has happened before. Therefore, there is a limitation of looking for resource. For idea type method, it is difficulties that construction of an ideal is hard and it is not objective process which means that it might contain people's basis in the ideal theory. And also to come up with the theory might take too much time and there may be not enough time to wait to solve the social problems. 
Study social problems is a difficult process. Even though sociology is a science it contains too much human being actions which bring a lot of uncertainty within the study. Sociologists already reduce many common methods to study social issues. 
However, those methods as our understanding are still not perfect and sociologists try to come up new methods to improve. In a word, there is no absolutely perfect way to study social problems and each method has its own limits. 
Citation: 
Shah, Shelly. "Important Methods and Techniques of Sociology." Sociology Discussion Discuss 
Anything About Sociology. N.p., 20 Jan. 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2016. 
Santorum, Rick. "Why Social Issues Matter." New York Post Why Social Issuesmatter Comments. 
N.p., 26 Feb. 2012. Web. 16 Feb. 2016. 
