	 Argumentative Essay Draft#1 
November 17th, 2015 
The Influence of Hip Hop Dance to People 
My topic is about the influence of hip hop dance to people and I have done some researches about it in different aspects to specify it and prove it. Hip hop dance is becoming more and more popular today and some young people are willing to join the hip hop dance clubs. Even some educators consider allowing hip hop dance classes to rich students' campus life and strengthen students' bodies. My position is that hip hop could bring people many benefits and change people's life in a positive way. 
Hip hop dance could improve people's body system and bring people a healthier life style when they do hip hop movements regularly. From my previous interviewing about Mr. Adams, she mentioned that that many movements need certain muscles, so she usually does multiple different training in order to strengthen and tone those muscles. She also indicated that it is a good way for dancers to develop the sense of balance when they make a series of movements. So I think that hip hop dance is really beneficial for muscle at first. Then I learnt that dancing could improve health system to fight against diseases and prevent disabilities from an article. "The health benefits associated with a comprehensive physical fitness program may also be achieved through dance. The aerobic fitness component of dance improves the strength and efficiency of the cardiorespiratory system and reduces excess body fat, which plays a major role in the increased risk of chronic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and heart disease."(Ward, 2008) Dancing is an efficient exercise to improve body quality, especially for those diabetes patients. Some hospitals also use dance to help the disabled recover. Therefore, hip hop dance can illustrate people's life greatly and enhance health quality. 
Hip hop dance could shape people's characteristics in good aspects and develop abilities which are beneficial for future. An article talks about the influence of hip hop dance to young people about characteristics. Hip hop dance battles allow dancers get together and develop team spirits through fighting for theirs dance studios' reputation. Hip hop dance also stimulates these young dancers' innovation. The author says: "On an individual level, battles allow breakers to compete for the honor of being the best at that moment. Collectively, they also function as a space for competing cultural meanings as expressed through dance. I have learned over the years that in battles, judges look for performances that are innovative, entertaining, and above all complete battles meaning that b-boying's key elements are all executed in a sequence and manner that makes sense." (Johnson, 2011) Not just young people enjoy the advantages that dance brings, elementary students also enjoy those advantages. One article mainly introduces that some educators allow students to have dance classes and these students benefit from dance classes a lot. Dance help young children with social, mental and emotional abilities, and even the future direction, according to "Creating exciting and productive classes to inspire future artists is the first step to introducing dance education."(Battisti, 2011) 
However, some people hold the opinion that hip hop culture can have bad influence on youth and hinder the development of the society. From my research, even though there are some disadvantages, the quantities of benefits are greater than disadvantages. There is an interview mainly talks about that hip hop can help people understand science, which will promote children's study and society's development. In this interview, the interview says: "We have all types of educators who come on board, and they talk about using hip-hop, you know, in understanding engineering and technology as well as all types of lessons, including the social sciences and language arts."(Danielle Lee, 2013) Therefore, students can learn a lot from those hip hop lessons. Many young people build confidence about themselves through hip hop dance as well, according to an article "Here in the tiny community of about 1,500 Inuit residents that Blue Print for Life's Stephen Leafloor, a.k.a. B-boy Buddha, a former Ottawa social worker, and his crew of 10 hip-hop dancers travelled to last fall to teach Inuit youngsters about breakdancing and hip-hop culture. For more than a week, Leafloor and his crew taught them how to bust a move. More important, they also instilled a sense of confidence and self-worth in the youths, many of whom come from troubled homes."(Seilstad, 2015) 
In conclusion, hip hop dance has taken up an important position in today's society. Under people's modification and improvement, it will bring people benefits more on physical, psychical and social aspects. Not just youth, all of people can develop themselves through dancing regularly. 
