LOVE-CUM-ARRANGED MARRIAGE IS BEST 
P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 27, 2015 
				Love-cum-arranged marriage is best 
Marriage is one of the most important decision in an individual's life. While love marriage is presently the norm in most countries, there are some countries where arranged marriage is still practiced in some form. Arranged marriage is a type of marriage in which potential bride/groom for an individual is chosen by a third party. This kind of marriage sounds peculiar to the western world because it thinks that love is spontaneous and one cannot throw two supposedly compatible people and tell them to fall in love. On the other hand people from South-Asian countries argue that no matter what, arranged marriage is better because of it's own advantages like family bonds and growing love between couples. However, nowadays people in India are following a third kind of marriage called love-cum-arranged marriage. In this marriage potential dates are introduced by family members and if they fall in love they marry each other. If they don't feel enough compatibility, their family continues the saga of bride/groom search. Infact, this love-cum-arranged marriage is the best among these three because it takes all the good elements from both love marriage and arranged marriage. 
	One of the main reasons why love-cum-arranged marriage is the best among the three is because it has flavors of both spouse's love and parent's support at the same time. This marriage permits an individual to take their time and date the person of opposite sex to see whether they are compatible with each other. If that works out then they marry that person else they move on. Indeed, the benefit of this is that the potential chances of heartbreak is much lower in these relationships as compared to chances of heartbreaks in love marriage. Before love marriage individuals move on from relationship to relationship to see whether they are compatible as a couple. Sometimes they feel depressed by the fact that they couldn't find the right one they would like to marry. Luckily, in love-cum-arranged marriage pre-screening for bride/groom is done by family members so the chance of mishaps occurring is low. 
	On the other hand when love-cum-arranged marriage is compared with arranged marriage, it is observed that they have the same kind of family support. Since bride/groom was once shortlisted by parents in love-cum-arranged marriage, at the time of conflict they are more than happy to extend any kind of emotional or economic support. Added to this, couples also have the love chemistry between them and they have confidence on each other that they will be there for each other for love, support and any other marital needs. 
	Arranged marriages were popular in the last century only because people earlier used to marry at a younger age. Present statistics shows that average marital age is increasing all around the world. Infact, according to a 2011 WHO and Ministry of Health and Family report from Medindia, the mean marriage age of both men and women in India has increased by about four years. This means that now people at the time of their marriage have become more mature and independent. At this point they find their mate according to their perspective which also matches with the interest of their parents. Thus, love-cum-arranged marriage also helps in removing the possibility of conflicts in between parents and their child and in between future bride and groom. (Kaur, n.d) 
	However, shortlisting of candidates before love marriage has its own pros. Because during the entire process of bride/groom search people get a lot of opportunity to meet new people. They develop their socializing skills which make them a more well rounded person. However, again one doesn't need to be on blind dates to learn socializing. They can learn that by making new friends. 
	Also, some may argue with the fact that in love-cum-arranged marriage short listing of potential bride/groom is done like arranged marriage that is on the basis of income or education level or any other criteria but again nowadays it is true for love marriages too (Chen, 2010). Infact, one can find that most of the dating websites in western countries do compare people by their income and education level. According to Chen from CNN "popular dating websites like Match.com and Eharmony report that romances happen occasionally between educated, professional women and men who are less educated or have a lower salary. It is because of these criteria that two people click more with each other because of same standard of living, maturity and the way of thinking. 
	So, in a nutshell I believe that love-cum-arranged marriage is the best among three because it has best elements from both love marriage and arranged marriage. It's like the middle way of two alternatives. This is reflected by the fact that marriages nowadays in India are so successful which is backed by summary statistics from Statisticbrian which show that divorce rate in India is just 1. 1 percent. This number is much better than the global arranged marriage divorce rate of 6 percent and the global love marriage divorce rate(Statisticbrian,n.d.). Since, human beings are social creatures who live and depend on the society for their existence, marriage plays a significant role in their life. Therefore, I think it is better to ask ourselves the question that which marriage among above is best. 
