Argumentative Essay Final Draft 
12th December 2015 
Technology and Employment: The Fate of Working Communities. 
Introduction 
	Technology is one of the underlying factors of today's stupefying evolution within our modern society. Ranging from transportation to telecommunication systems, everything that we exhibit presently is far more sophisticated than what people had a couple of decades ago. Technology has a profound influence on everything that we see and interact with nowadays. Ryan Barton, author of the article "Technology's Explosion: The Exponential Growth Rate" had affirmed that technology today had grown at a staggering rate. He added that the advanced community will only require a shorter term to develop and came out with new inventions compared to those who live in the twentieth century. However, one should not be blinded by the positive impacts of technology in this Modern Age because experts believed that it had brought few negative consequences toward the job market nowadays. First, technology had caused disruption to the structure of the occupational market which directly lead to large unemployment rate every year particularly in manufacturing sectors and service based industries. In addition, the expression "Technology for Better Future" is just a narrow generalization that cause many individuals failed to recognize the gloomy face of technology towards the present-day working community. 
Technology Disruption to The Manufacturing Sectors 
	With the astounding growth of world population annually, the demand for elemental consumer products are likewise escalated. Few manufacturers find this to be challenging but at the same time lucrative. Establishing new manufacturing plant both in their country of origin and overseas had allowed most of them to access advanced technologies and open up new markets for their products as claimed by Joel Backaler in the article titled "5 Reasons Why Chinese Companies Go Global". At this minute, robotic arms and automated machines are abundantly spotted working tirelessly in the assembly and processing lines alongside human laborers. Due to the capability of machines to manufacture low-cost commodities in massive quantity within a curtailed period, more and more companies are engrossed to assimilate machines in their working environments including large contract manufacturers like Foxconn as claimed by William H. Davidow and Michael S. Malone in the article "What Happens to Society When Robots Replace Workers?". This event, reflect similarities with the information shared by Mc Afee and Brynjolfsson in the article titled "Why Workers Are losing The War Against Machines" (Para.4) where they acknowledged that many manufacturers today seem to have more enthusiasm in automation compared to human laborers. Other than that, Davidow and Malone they both shared that Foxcomm had recorded an expansion in the number of robot installation in most of their factories worldwide particularly in China with the rate of 30,000 units per year with each robot cost around 20,000 US Dollar. (Para. 4 and 5). Although we might agree with the thought that technology produces economical basic consumer products, however, a person who loses their basic income due to unemployment will still not be able to purchase those so called inexpensive products made by machines. For that reason, technology and automation within the manufacturing sectors had and will make a large number of people being dismissed from their career, making the occupational market in industrial sectors to be more competitive. 
Technology Alter Jobs Structure in Many Service Based Industry. 
Apart from the interruption to the industrial and manufacturing industry, experts also claimed that technology had modified occupation in the service based industries. For instance, a company like Amazon had changed the way people shop today. As the online shopping outpaced the traditional method by 15 percent in value for last two years as mentioned by Betsy Morris in the article retrieved from The Wall Street Journal, "More Consumer Prefer Online Shopping" (Para. 4), it had caused few shopping malls to be closed as notified by Tim Worstall in the article titled "The Shopping Malls Really Are Being Killed by Online Shopping" (Para. 4). This situation, of course, made few of the former mall employees lose their jobs. In the same article, author Davidow and Malone had stated that new robots such as the Johnson and Johnson's Sedasys machines were deemed capable of replacing the jobs of medical doctors in the near future (Para. 10). This will certainly be a revolution to the job market in the medical fields. Equally important, <name>, <position>, alluded that technological company such as Uber and Lyft hold massive potential in replacing the role of cab drivers leading to a transformation in the structure of transportation services. Therefore, masked by staggering development in the modern world, technology had also been deemed responsible for the alteration in many jobs structure on multifarious service based industries today. 
Technology for Better Future, leads to The Rise of Citizens with Zero Economic Value. 
	Many of us might have heard the overused catch phrase, "Technology for a Better Future". However, one should be cognizant of the reality that catch phrase is just an inaccurate generalization set forth by innovators. As what I've mentioned repeatedly, currently, there is an outstanding figure of unemployment worldwide due to the uprising of smart machines and technology. In this state of affairs, technology today had catalyzed an increase in society with "zero economic values" as mentioned by Davidow and Malone in the same article (Para. 4). Since, technology create a competitive job market, people who have less skill, knowledge and experience in the most recent technology would have difficulty to land jobs. Also asserted by Mc Afee and Brynjolfsson, due to the uprising of smart machines, more employers are expecting to hire laborers that are very skillful making those people who don't to be outperformed by others. Also mentioned by Derek Thompson in an article titled, "A World Without Work', he said "One of the first things we might expect to see in a period of technological displacement is the diminishment of human labor as a driver of economic growth" (Para. 14). Although most of us had witnessed that technology does create a better future such as in urbanization, medicine, and communication, but the benefits had not been able to be distributed equally among the people, which means some party will gain benefits while other do not. Therefore, with the realization of this facts, the statement of "Technology for a Better Future" do not entirely reflects the reality of the current situation as the number of citizens with zero economic values is increasing not only in underdeveloped countries but also in first world countries today. 	 
Opposition: Accelerating the Technology Make a World Where Nobody is Required to Work 
Apart from all of the negative consequences of technology that I had discussed, there are groups of people who have a different thought about this matter. In the interview, <name> had introduced to me a notion that opposed the idea of technology convey damage to the structure of working society called "Accelerationism". It is a philosophy that state by accelerating the technology to its maximum capability there will be an end to work. Also mentioned by Thompson, many futurists had been excited with the idea of "jobless world" where he believed that everyone will have limitless amount of leisure and freedom in life (Para.7). However, it is a na ve idea to believe that this situation will be happening soon especially with the current level of technological advancement that we have. In the same article, Thompson also claimed that the idea of a world without work will surely make many nations face complication to distribute their wealth among the public citizens which could directly lead to severe social transformations (Para.7). Therefore, it is vital for the modern community to be concern about the negative influence of technology towards the current job markets and figure out ways to overcome them immediately. 
Philanthropically-sound Effort, Minimizing The Effect of Automation in Modern Job World 
	When it comes to unemployment epidemic in the modern community, we might think that halting or controlling the development of technology would be the best way to curb this problem. However, based on the article by Keith W. Miller, "Technology, Unemployment, and Power", the author proclaimed that the uprising of technology should not be considered immoral despite the irrefutable fact that it had seized enormous amount of jobs within the community. Also mentioned by Miller in the same journal, some people view technology as an "option" while other look at them as a vulnerability. Take for example a CEO of a company will look at intelligence machinery as an option toward the increase of the company profits and productivity while physical laborers will look at them as a threat to their career. Later in the article, Miller conclude that most of us concur that technology is something unavoidable. Therefore, one of the way proposed by <name> during the interview is philanthropy. Having escalating rate in philanthropical efforts by many company and organization today will surely help to curb the unemployment epidemic. As claimed by <name> larger company such as Google and Microsoft had already been spotted to have an increase in the amount of philanthropy, showing that they were concerned with the disruption that their technology may cause towards the global society. Therefore, an increase in Corporate Social Responsibility by all company, despite their size, is actually one of the ways to curb the aftermath of technology towards the working communities. 
Digital Literacy, Key to Survive the Modern Working Environment 
	Although philanthropy deemed to be capable in absorbing the impact of technology, but the effort only act as a momentary measure. A long term solution for this affair could possibly be done through education. In the same article by Davidow and Malone, they said "., we need a new, individualized, cultural, approach to the meaning of work and the purpose of life." In other words, education could be one of the approach to taught new generation about the basis of life. Scott Mc Nealy also shared similar perception where in an article titled 'A Community Effort Is Needed to Eliminate the Digital Divide" he said education is one of the "fundamental triggers" to resolve the digital divide within the community (Para.3). Skills and comprehensions in technology could be an asset that each individual should acknowledge. <name> had mentioned that one of the cardinal factors that had lead to this issue is the digital divide, a situation where people in different places received different levels of technology. Likewise, education held the potential to make a community or individual to be more digital literate thus eliminating the digital divide among the global community. Becoming competent in diversified skills related to the current technology could help one to be more prepared to face the challenging job market that we have today especially when it shifted from "physical-based economy" to "knowledge-based economy" as asserted by <name>. 
Conclusion 
	In conclusion, technology had changed the world that we live today. Most of us had witnessed the power it possessed and how it had affected various facets of people's life in the twenty-first century including the occupational market. The increasing amount of machination had been one of the uppermost reason that lead to the escalating number of unemployment. First, technology had been claimed to cause disruption in modern manufacturing based industries. Then, technology had also altered jobs in numbers of service based industry. Last but not least, experts believed that "Technology for Greater Future" is only an inaccurate generalization spread among our modern community. Notions, after notions had been proposed by philosophers to refute the negative influence of technology including "Accelerationism", however as claimed by <name>, it was still a puerile idea that we could hardly achieve the goals in a short range of time. Therefore, increasing philanthropically-sound efforts and refining education among the global society are some of the measures that could help reduce the gravity of this epidemic. 
