Bodyline: An Innovation that changed the sport 
Ashes is a test series played between Australia and England once every four year. Since its inception, the series of 1932 has been the most controversial series mainly due to England using the bodyline tactic to win over the Australian's. Due to the physically threatening nature of bodyline deliveries, this tactic gained widespread attention and criticism both in public as well as the media. Even though most of the cricketing world believes that the use of bodyline played a significant role in England's victory, some believe that the English played better cricket in order to regain the ashes from the Australians. In short, England won the ashes because they played better cricket, not because of bodyline. 
Firstly, in practice, bodyline is a kind of leg theory where balls would be bowled towards the leg side (bodies) of the batsmen and fielders would be placed accordingly in order to stop the run flow. Even before the 1932 ashes series, West Indian pace bowlers used this tactic. Therefore, this tactic was not something that was invented by the English but it was used extensively by them during the 1932 series. The Australian batsmen had faced bodyline bowling previously against the West Indies. Secondly, media also played a huge role in the 1932 series. Bodyline gained widespread attention mainly due to reporters and analysts who used the term "Bodyline" instead of leg theory to grab attention. According to Massie, the term bodyline demonstrated the power of modern day framing by reporters (Massie). 
Thirdly, bodyline nullified the advantage that batsmen naturally enjoyed. The conditions present during that period in Australia were batsmen friendly. The weather did not allow for the ball to swing or move in the air which generally caused difficulty to batsmen. Moreover, the cricket pitches did not offer any assistance to the bowlers. Apart from this, cricketing laws were mostly in favor of the batsmen. Initially, the new cricket ball is hard and this made scoring difficult. As soon as the ball became soft due to wear and tear, runs started to flow easily. Batsman-friendly laws such as favorable leg before wickets and no ball change tilted the balance heavily towards the batsmen. Bodyline was a means of rebalancing the game, chipping away at the in-built advantage batsmen enjoyed at the time and (especially) in those Australian conditions (Massie). 
Most importantly, bodyline was not used extensively during the ashes of 1932. According to sports reporter Massie, of all the legal deliveries, about 10-15% were short pitched and directed towards the batsmen. Moreover, these deliveries put the batsmen in discomfort but rarely were wicket taking balls. The total amount of wickets taken by bodyline deliveries were very limited. The most important reason for England's victory was that they had a better team especially the bowling unit was far superior to that of the Australians. The Australian team relied on a few part time bowlers rather than seasoned fast bowlers. First-innings scores of 360, 228, 222, 340 and 435 were countered by English totals of 524, 169, 341, 356 and 454. Thus the English team was able to post big totals and put pressure on the Australian's (Massie). 
The reason why bodyline is still considered to be the reason for England's victory is due the physically threatening nature of this tactic. Bodyline forced batsmen to play at deliveries generating chances for taking wickets. Yes it's true that bodyline was physically threating mainly because the protective equipment during that period was not sophisticated enough to protect the batsmen. Yet most of the batsmen had a problem facing the pace and the quality of English bowlers rather than the bounce. Moreover the bounce of the ball was limited when the ball turned soft and directing precise short deliveries was very difficult. 
Even though it is still widely believed that bodyline was a major factor in England's ashes victory, the English team played better cricket to win the Ashes. The significance of this tactic is immense to the evolution to the sport. Since the ashes, the attitude towards a change has been mostly negative. When Kevin Petersen invented the switch hit, the cricketing world criticized this move. Later on, this cricket shot played an important role in England's world cup victory. Similar inventions such as scoops, reverse hits have been criticized. But people need to know that these form of innovative tactics enhance the sport rather than violating the spirit of the game. To conclude, bodyline's role in England's victory of 1932 ashes was minimal but it was an innovative tactic that changed the way cricket is played even today. 
