E-sports Vs Traditional sports: Same? or Different 
Nowadays, with the development of modern technology, video games factory is growing stronger and creates a new word called E-sports, playing games against another team. Most of adults did not consider it as a sport for the reason that it lacks of physicality, which is the main characteristics of traditional sports. However, I have different opinion on this topic, I think E-sports can define as a sports because of its huge prize pool, high salaries and large number of spectators. I believe that if E-sports industry can be more well-organized, it can change adults' views and become even more flourishing than traditional sports. 
The first reason to support my opinion is that E-sports industry has already had a great influence in teenagers, which can compare with the traditional sport. According to the research company New Zoo1, 205 million people watched or played E-sports in 2014 , and this number is still increasing this year. Even there is a college, Robert Morris University, gives scholarships to E-sports players. Some people may say this is all based on Internet world, not in the real life, but there is a huge E-sports tournament called TI (The International Dota2 Championship), was held in Key Arena, which was the home ground of a NBA team Seattle Supersonics which showed that E-sports enjoyed the same position and had the same influence to the traditional sports. Above all I said, I think there is no doubt that E-sports can be a kind of sports. 
	As for my second reason, I want to prove that E-sports is enough competitve to be a sport. There are only very few of games can be called as E-sports, and nearly all of those are hard to play well. For example, there is a game called Dota2, they got 10,313,8552 players around the whole world, but only 80 professional players entered TI championship, like the spire of the Pyramid. And I'm also a player of Dota2, I have played Dota for 6 years and I'm now top 4% of the players, but my skills are far away from those professional players and even can not be called as a master in this game. I also love to play football and basketball. Based on these experiences, I find that playing Dota is same as playing basketball, all have 5 players as a team, we have to work together to beat another team. in both of Dota and basketball, they all have teamwork, communication and scoring. So I believe that E-sports is a kind of sport. 
	The third reason I want to provide is that E-sports has unlimited potential to be found. I also want to use TI (The International Dota2 Championship) as an example, In that tournament, the total prize poll is $18,429,613. It's a large amount of money among the sports field. The prize pool were made up with two parts. One is called basic prize pool which is $1,600,000 provided by the Valve. Another part is provided by the players, if you purchase the items related to this championship, 25% of their incomes will add to the prize pool3. So we can see E-sports get a huge amount of fanatics who want to spend their money in games. And aslo in the paper I used before, it claims that although many E-sports competitions are not a stadium-based, nowadays MLB.tv, NFL rewind and many stream services show that an online broadcast will not only be successful, but also well-positioned for the next decade of broadcasting trend. Prof. <name> , the professor I interviewed before, also thinks E-sports will have a good future, he said best model for E-games was skateboard because nobody considered skateboard as a sport in the 1950s. Nowadays, skateboard is so popular nationwide that it also has a big tournament sponsored by big companies. So we don't have to worry about E-sports does not have enough impact to be called as a sports. 
	Still, there are many adults who hold the view that playing E-sports will have bad effect to the children, I partly agree with it because some of children are addicted to the video games. However, I've asked this question to Dr. <name> , and he said "No matter how people think about video games, game players still know the games very well. There are still sometimes where older generations can not understand because of the gap. As long as you kept the limit, playing video games is acceptable for many parents." So the reason why those kids are addicted to video games is that they are not self-controlled, it is not E-sports fault, if they do not control themselves well, they will easily being addicted to many others things. Also, some people said that E-sports is not fair enough because it is based on Internet and some people can hack in the games. This opinion is totally wrong because all the big tournament or pro league are based on local serve and held by the game company, there is no chance for players to hack into the games and it's impossible to hack in the serve which are highly protected by the game company. 
	In conclusion, I strongly believe that E-sports can be defined as a sports. In the first hand, E-sports industry is growing explosively right now and there is no clue to show that this scene will decline. On the other hand, based on the growing popularity of E-sports, more and more sponsor will come and with the time, this industry will be much mature than today. In one day, today's teenagers who like E-sports will be adult and the dominants of the worlds, that is why I have so much faith that E-sports will be a sport and even the most popular sport in the future. 
1 From: http://www.newzoo.com/insights/esports-economy-will-generate-least-465-million-2017/ 
2 From: http://steamcharts.com/app/570 
3 From: https://www.dota2.com/international/overview/?l=english 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
