Argument Essay: The benefits or disadvantages of studying abroad and its increasing popularity in China 
"Hire a manager. (People who study overseas is top choice)" Nowadays when we pay attention to the billboard along the road, we can easily find similar advertisement. Studying overseas is becoming more and more popular in China; according to Waghann, a CCTV reporter, "for the past decade, Chinese students pursuing a higher education overseas have been increasing at about 20% each year." (2013) People now gradually have a conscious that education in foreign countries, especially colleges and universities, are better than those in our homeland; therefore, most of parents are seeking ways to send their kids overseas for study. However, as far as I concerned, students should have a clear vision of what they are capable of, which school and major they would like to choose and even what career they might have after graduation before they make up their minds to study abroad. 
I believe being aware of what we are capable of and have some preparation are the priorities before we study abroad. "You could feel excluded in the country where you are and not have the social network yet that can give you support and strength." (Marie, 2010) Studying overseas has dozens of obstacles, such as being alone, which is mentioned before, cultural shock like food. What's more, studying in China and here is totally different, for example, according to Priester, professors are always the last person to know the question when they have a class with all Chinese students. (2014) Therefore, how can we overcome those obstacles or change our habits that may have for several years become so important that it decide how long will it take for you to accommodate the studying and living condition here. I will take myself as an example. Before the semester began, I have noticed the difference between China and here, such as feeling lonely in the first month. However, I didn't feel like that way because in September because I set up a schedule for weekend for myself-watching football games, previewing the class, finishing homework which is due next month, going to the gym for exercise, practicing slide with my longboard. Thus, every day's schedule is almost full, and being lonely is not of my pronoun for the first month. Additionally, before having class here, I attended in some classes using foreign language in Shanghai along with all foreigners. In those classes, I noticed the major difference, which is foreigners always ask teachers questions about the knowledge they don't know; by contrast, students in China only have the habit of taking down the note. When I found this difference, I kept in mind, and tried to ask questions in class or after class nowadays so that I can make sure the knowledge instructors give to us, and that's why I did a good job in both Math and Chemistry. 
Secondly, choosing a school best for our major is every college student has to think of-majors help select everyone's career after graduation. Therefore, a clear mind of which major is best for each and every one becomes very critical. With Priester's idea, there are thousands of different schools in the U.S. (2014); for example, we can find many engineering schools in America, such as Purdue University, Boston University, MIT and Duke University, etc. However, choosing the best engineering school is what we have to think of since some school are good at engineering while some others are not. Students can learn and study engineering in most American university, get an engineering degree, but in those well-known engineering school like Purdue University, students here have to "earn" the engineering degree. There is an ancient Chinese saying goes that "Your achievement is equivalent to how much you pay for it", which means students who earn an engineering degree in those well-known engineering schools will have get a job easily when they graduate at the first place. In conclusion, choosing the best school for our major is also important for students, especially international students like us. 
As we all know, in American universities, there are lots of internship and co-op opportunities such as Industrial Roundtable in Purdue University. According to the research by Dwyer and Peters: for students who hope to gain the most career impact from study abroad, results indicate that they should choose an internship as part of their curriculum. Remarkably, 70 percent of intern respondents reported that study abroad ignited interest in a career direction pursued after the experience, compared to 60 percent of non-intern respondents. In addition, 83 percent said that it allowed them to acquire skill sets that influenced their career path, compared to 75 percent who did not intern. (2014) In my opinion, during the co-op and the internship, we can earn some working experience as well as having some talks with peers. Last week, I attended a panel that was held by some junior and senior undergraduate students, talking about their experience during internship and co-op, most of them told us that those experience could be their leverage when they look for a job. Thus, I believe that if a student know what job exactly he (she) want to do in the future, studying overseas would be his (her) best option. 
In conclusion, I believe that if students have full preparation of studying abroad, be aware of what they can do to overcome obstacles, to face with feedbacks, and have a clear mind of what major and school they would like to choose, what job they prefer to do some day after graduation, studying overseas would be best for those students. 
Reference 
David, S. (2008 June 2). Sending students, faculty to study abroad opens door to both opportunities, risks. National Underwriter, 112, P28-31. 
Dwyer, M. & Peters, K. The benefits of study abroad. Retrieved from Oct. 30th 2014. 
http://www.iesabroad.org/study-abroad/news/benefits-study-abroad 
Gretchen, C. (2012, December 1). Studying abroad in college helps graduates make more money and land more jobs. Diversity Employers, P11-13. 
Howard, L. (2003, August 19). Why more students are studying abroad. Christian Science Monitor. 
Marie, M. (2010 April 21). Disadvantages of studying abroad. Retrieved from Oct. 30th 2014. 
http://www.slideshare.net/xxrockerz/disadvantages-of-studying-abroad# 
Ming, H. (2001). On secondary school students studying abroad to avoid college admission exams. Chinese Education & Society, 34, 35. 
Oosterbeek, H. & Webbink, D. (2009). Does Studying Abroad Induce a Brain Drain? Economica, P347-366. 
Songguo, Y. (2010). Why Do College and Middle School Student Want to Go Abroad. Chinese Education & Society. P34. 
Waghann, J. (2013 November 8). Studying abroad: a prevailing trend for Chinese students. Retrieved from Oct. 30th 2014. http://english.cntv.cn/program/cultureexpress/20131108/101852.shtml 
