Argumentative Essay 
November 23, 2015 
Thesis Statement: 
Opposition Paragraph: 
People may argue that direct emission from livestock production create most amount of pollution, and is the main reason for livestock production to be detrimental for the environment. The opposing view claims that the ruminant animals are the main sources of nitrous emission as livestock production is responsible for 65 percent of global anthropogenic emissions of nitrous oxide. Ruminant animals do produce Nitrous emission, but huge amount of the emission of nitrous oxide is produced by indirect emission such as soil emission, fuel use, and fertilizer production. Moreover, people may argue that animals can create a great amount of carbon emission because they breathe. Nevertheless, it is true that animal breathes, but the main sources of carbon emission created by livestock production is the emission cause by the change of land-use caused by livestock production, and other sources are the process of production and transportation. Furthermore, People may argue that ruminant animals emit a huge amount of methane, however. Nonetheless, methane can be recycled for energy if people decide to do so. 
Support Paragraph 1: 
Support Paragraph 2: 
Moreover, even though livestock production emits a huge amount of nitrous oxide directly by its fermentation and manure, the problem is solvable. First, manage the diet of the animals can control the amount of manure and its composition efficiently as the characteristics of feces and urine can be modified. For example, by reducing the protein in the food of pigs, ammonia can be reduced. Furthermore, there are many treatments for the existing manure, and mainly it can be separate into three sectors including "stabilisation which enables time for the use of manure nutrients in a growing crop", "concentration and export", or "elimination of an undesirable loss, such as CH4 or NH3 emission". (Petersen. e.tal, 2007) In some countries, people burn the manure to reduce the Nitrogen, but it might reduce the plant availability, and in some other countries, people use the manure in different ways but the objectives are all reducing the pollution, and put them into use. Therefore, although animal manure directly emits Nitrous Oxide, the manure can still be beneficial in other sides. 
Other Points: 
-Methane can be use for energy 
-indirectly pollute the land with carbon 
-other change of land use (deserfication.) 
Reference: 
Lesschen, J. P., Van den Berg, M., Westhoek, H. J., Witzke, H. P., & Oenema, O. (2011). Greenhouse gas emission profiles of European livestock sectors. Animal Feed Science and Technology, 166, 16-28. 
Enrique. M. (1990). Intensive Sustainable Livestock Production: An Alternative to Tropical Deforestation. AMBIO, Vol.19, NO.8, Science of Sustainable Development, pp 397-400 
Vale. M. (2012) Deforestation and its Extreme Effect o Global Warming. Scientific American. Retrieved from: http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/deforestation-and-global-warming/ 
Steinfeld, H., Gerber, P., Wassenaar, T., Castel, V., Rosales, M., & Haan, C. D. (2006). Livestock's long shadow: environmental issues and options. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). 
Gerber, P.J., Steinfeld, H., Henderson, B., Mottet, A., Opio, C., Dijkman, J., Falcucci, A. & Tempio, G. 2013. Tackling climate change through livestock - A global assessment of emissions and mitigation opportunities. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Rome. 
Rosenzweig, C., & Parry, M. L. (1994). Potential impact of climate change on world food supply. Nature, 367(6459), 133-138. 
St-Pierre, N. R., Cobanov, B., & Schnitkey, G. (2003). Economic losses from heat stress by US livestock industries. Journal of dairy science, 86, E52-E77. 
United States Environmental Protection Agency. (2014). Greenhouse gas Equivalencies Calculator [Data file]. Retrieved from http://www2.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator 
Adams. C. R (n.p) Impacts of Temperature Extremes. Cooperative Institute of Research in the Atmosphere, Foothills Research Campus, Colorado State University. 
O'Mara, F. P. (2011). The significance of livestock as a contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions today and in the near future. Animal Feed Science and Technology, 166, 7-15. 
