Argumentative Final Draft 
11/21/2015 
Human Development of Quick Decision Making 
"More than half children use social media by the age of 10". Media has become a part of people's daily life, in a job, in the school or in college. It is something normal for societies, but not everyone realizes how it can affect on people's decisions. Through a survey 40 people between the ages of 16-70 answered the question "Does social media affect your decisions?". The responses were, a 34.2% said yes, a 42.1% said no and a 23.7% said sometimes. Even though almost half of the people think that social media does not affect their decisions it actually does. 
One of the main influences in people's life is the television. The TV was invented 172 years ago. Right now is one of the most used device in the world. According to researches (Gale, 2007) the television influences and has an impact on viewer's attitudes and beliefs about themselves. It also affects the viewer perception of cultures and social backgrounds. It has also influenced during history how people think about race, gender and class. It is also proved that it has made people more materialists and has helped in political campaigns. According to this facts, the television has had and has a direct impact in shaping how we think, therefore our decisions. For example, a technique used to persuade people to buy is the repetition of commercials. When people turn the TV on it is very probable that the same commercial will show up several times. People may not notice that this actually affects them, but it does. They will have that commercial recorded in their minds which will probably make them want to buy that product. 	 
The television not only affects on buying, but it also affects on our perception of different cultures. As mostly everyone watches the TV and the news it is very easy to persuade people to think how the TV is presenting a social issue. In Europe, for example, when there is a crime committed by someone of the same race as Europeans the new is not very polemical. However, if someone from a different country or background commits a crime medial will do whatever they can to make sure everyone knows and is alert. This make people think wrong and different od other cultures and countries. 
Another sort of media we are exposed to is the Internet. Every day google has approximately 4. 7 trillion searches. People now have all the information wanted in a simple click. This is creating that the human brain develops more the prefrontal cortex in the brain which is in charge of short term memory and quick decision making. The brain does what it is trained to do so even if people wanted to learn something from the internet the brain is predisposed to forget almost everything people search for on google. People are losing the long term memory. Taking these facts into account, it is known that people are more likely to make quick decisions nowadays. This is not something that is positive for the human being. Making quick decisions can affect in a negative way to our lifestyle and society. For example, people tend to believe everything found on a web page. It is proved that even web pages like Wikipedia are not 100% verdict. However, people still believe everything that is written there. 
As it happens with the TV, internet also affects on people's perception towards race, gender and class. This is because there is a lot of fake information available for everyone in the internet. Also there are commercials which change our perceptions on how we think about ourselves, like the ones made to loose weight or look pretty for the society. All these commercials have an impact on people, they can change how the feel and think, therefore it changes their decisions. 
A study conducted by the University of Southern California and the University of Berkeley, demonstrated that social media is also beneficial for the human being. "The study looked at more than 5,000 hours of online observation and found that the digital world is creating new opportunities for young people to grapple with social norms, explore interests, develop technical skills and work on new forms of self-expression" They believe that social media is essential for kids to develop social and technical skills. However, they do not deny that social media affects people's decisions. 
In conclusion, the Media is a powerful source in people's life. It is currently in everybody's day through television, internet or even commercials. It is demonstrated that media affects and has been affection for a long time how people think about race, gender and social class. It creates conflicts and misunderstandings between counties and cultures. It also makes the human being develop the prefrontal cortex of the brain which improves the short term memory and the the quick decision making. Media affects directly to people and how thet make decisions. 
