P4d1_ae 
March 28, 2016 
Negative Effects of Students Using Credit Cards 
Using credit cards has many negative effects on the financial status of students. Students access to a credit card, fail to control their spending habit and this repeated action increase in financial consumption habits. Credit cards provide simple and convenient services, making students feel that they have access to free cash that can be used to purchase products they like. This feeling stimulates impulsiveness among students and influences their financial condition in a negative way. Using credit cards causes serious problems for students as they develop huge amount of credit card payments and end up in a financial crisis where they fail to save anything and end paying everything for monthly credit card payments. 
	College students are greatly vulnerable to the use of credit cards. Since, they are not matured enough to handle money, they show increased spending patterns after they access to credit cards. Many students lose self-control and make impulsive payments, and develop habits of purchasing everything they desire through credit. I had interviewed with an expert, <name> to discuss about the students using credit cards and the negative effects of credit cards. <name> emphasized the significance of financial management. He said that Students have to construct the healthy financial status in early age to accomplish the steady financial status in the future. Also, the interviewee mentioned that the "credit cards tempt users to spend more than necessary". Students hold credit cards with misunderstanding of credit cards. They treated the credit as their income and overly use the credit cards. Then, Students are forced to pay a larger monthly interest and late fees over monthly payments. In addition, failure to control their spending habits also increases their debt and leads to poor credit rating when they fail to pay back the bank before deadline. 
	Another major disadvantage of using credit cards is the limited or no savings done by students. Services that provided from the credit cards stimulate students' spending that using over the balance even there is lack of cash. Having credit cards offer the convenient services that students pay or buy immediately without having money with them. However, this convenient service can end up with terrible outcome. Before students realize the negatives of aspects of using credit cards, they are already in a huge amount of debt from the careless spending and large monthly interest payments. Also, believing that debt can be paid back in the future, some people may accumulate debt with no anxiety. Overspending leads to the development of financial anxiety among students as they do not have the financial resources or incoming income to pay the debt back (Limerick & Peltier, 2014). 
	Many students end up in a risky financial condition as their credit dries up and they do not have the money to service their debt (Robb & Pinto, 2010). As students cannot suppress their impulsiveness, they discover products and services that they desire. Impulsiveness leads to continuous overspending, debt overload, long-term expenses on credit card, and prevents students from financial gains. Credit card companies charge significantly large interests to students for their services. These large interest payments are above the principal amount that needs to be paid back. However, if students try to save the money and keep the proper budget line, students can collect the money for the future life and they can gain yearly interest from the bank. It is much better than they end up spending huge amounts money by credit cards and pay interest back to the bank. 
Use of credit card has several negative consequences on students as they not only need to pay huge interest payments and monthly late fees. Using credit card forces students into financial trouble as they spend on products and services that are beyond their financial abilities. The result is seen in their financial condition as students end up in financial crisis. Their financial condition faced danger when they need to pay the principal amount and the interest payment. Using credit cards also have long-term negative impacts too, as students develop huge credit card debt and develop poor credit ratings. It is important that students fully recognized about how credit cards work and they need to aware the possible negative effects of the using credit cards that can face with the financial crisis. 
