The Savior of Twentieth Century 
From my curious thoughts to the synthesizing of a research paper, my ideas and pictures in how cybersecurity affecting the system have been continuously changing ever since. My awareness has been raised to the level that every time I open a website and start browsing, I have to check the information that was provided by the Symantec Norton Internet Antivirus, an antivirus tool that I installed in my computer. Cybersecurity, in general, is a term that used to describe a method of overall protection over devices such as computers and smartphones. However, in a more complex and advanced level of security, things get more complicated and one fallacy or a bug that happened in the system could possibly lead to an unimaginable loss. Therefore, in this paper, I am going to address the key point in which why all of the internet users should be concerning about cybersecurity. 
Cybersecurity has been coexisting with us since the internet was launched. It is defined as the collection of tools, policies, security concepts, best practices and insurance that can be used to protect cyber environment. (International Telecommunication Union, 2014). It provided us a safe zone in which internet didn't provide. According to Joel Brenner, a NASA counsel, "Internet wasn't built for security, yet we have made it the backbone of virtually all private-sector and government operations, as well as communications."(Gizmodo, 2014) Even so, maintaining a protection over the internet system could vary from individuals to organizations, and to even the highly protected national security. Moreover, due to the fact that technology these days are continuously changing, achieving the most durable protection over the whole country or even the world require the effort from various public/private sectors (Asllani, A., White, C. S., & Ettkin, L, 2013). In this way, it wasn't just one individuals' but everyone's responsibility to take care of our own safeness. As you would have thought, Shalin Shah, an expert that I interviewed, responded the same way. Shalin regarded cybersecurity as one of the most important aspect of the century. He explicitly stated "It is mostly organizations and individuals' responsibility to protect their websites from being vulnerable." (Personal Interview, 2014) 
Loses in our data may be fixable in some period of time, but loses in organizations can result in an unimaginable manner. Quite recently, cybersecurity issues were now involving big companies name such as Wal-Mart, Home-Depot, Target, and Apple. (Fortune, 2014) Even the most that may have looked the hardest to breach, JP Morgan Chase Bank, was breached last summer. (NY times, 2014) This attack compromised over 76 million households' accounts and seven million small businesses, possibly the biggest cyber-attacks in the corporate history. Dan Kaminsky, a researcher at White Ops, a security company, said that they have changed the way their economy to computer based system because it is faster, but making this change also provided side effects. (NY times, 2014) Edward J. Markey, a member of Senate Commerce Committee, also exemplified the bank data breach as another danger in Americans' most sensitive personal information. Nonetheless, the result, whether it happened in banks or any business companies, was crucially disastrous. 
Looking on the broader scale, the infographic statistics from Go-Gulf.com stated that there were 556 million victims of cyber-attacks each year and to be more precise, 18 victims every seconds. It is undoubtable that the number will keep rising as we keep adding more things to be connected to the internet. (Gizmodo, 2014) According to David Nall, a programmer at NASA, more things connected to the internet means more vulnerabilities. Nowadays, many possible internet connected things vary from economic transactions, air traffic control and even power grid. Not only that, more things such as self-driving cars, building infrastructure and unmanned aerial infrastructure will also be added in the future. (Gizmodo, 2014) As you can see, all of these were playing big roles in our daily lives, and without cybersecurity being put in place, imagine what is going to be like when these things were hacked and controlled by hackers. They could possibly control everything that were connected to internet from without even seeing those things by themselves or even from outside their own countries. 
In general, issues regarding cybersecurity are on the rise. Our world is becoming more globalized and connected. Even though, this provides various benefits to us, internet users, it also brings lots of headaches and losses to the users too. As things get more connected and integrated into an internet, achieving a complete control with the mean of exploiting bugs and vulnerabilities is becoming more common in this age of technology. Nonetheless, cybersecurity can provide us a layer of protection in which internet itself can't offer. No one knows what will happen tomorrow, being protective and aware of this issues was like driving a car. When there was a car accident, your airbag in front of you will provide you a first protection that you can ever get, similarly to what protection from cybersecurity can provide. Therefore, having a predictable measurement over an unpredictable circumstances was, in my opinion, the most reasonable that internet users can ever do in this century. 
