Why can't We Achieve Gender Equality in Korean Workplace? 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This paper investigates the idea and the possibility of gender equality in Korea. The introduction is used to give the topic to the readers and why the writer chose this topic. As the paper proceed, it gives quick background information about gender quality in Korea and advances further into possible opposition to the author's view of the possibility of gender equality. The paper gives social trends and biological roles of men and women, and argues why gender equality in Korean workplace is hard to achieve. 
Why can't We Achieve Gender Equality in Korean Workplace? 
Introduction 
The World Economic Forum (later mentioned as WEF) has reported the Global Gender Gap Index of 2014, and of all the countries, Korea is ranked 117th place out of 142 countries. This drastic ranking of gender equality in Korea seems almost impossible considering the fact that Korea is one of the developed countries in the world. Below Korea, there are countries such as Zambia, Nigeria, Oman and more. However, most of the countries that are ranked below Korea are countries that are generally considered to be "developing" countries, which show how the gender inequality does not match our overall economic status. Such drastic rating led me to focus on the gender equality of Korea and the possibility of achieving equality. Although some may argue, I believe that gender equality in the Korean workplace is not achievable due to the social norms and biological differences of men and women. 
Background Information 
According to Chang (2011), during the late 1980's in Korea, women earned 52% less hourly wage than men. This massive gap between the two genders was caused by the lack of education: both the lack of college degrees and general education. It is inevitable that since most women were expected to take care of the household, not much women were sent to college. Which leads to fewer women picked for a job than men. Furthermore, since women did not receive as much education as men, most women qualified for jobs that had lower income than that of the men. 
Apposition 
Although I believe that gender equality would be nearly impossible to attain, others may believe that gender equality can be achieved through social changes. For example, a Forbes article written by Warrell (2015) talks about how to achieve gender equality. The author mentions about "Debora Spar, the president of Barnard College and host of the annual Global women's leadership Symposium." According to the author, Spar asserts the need to "reframe the question from 'Can women have it all?' to 'How can we support women in being more successful at whatever choice they decide to make?'" As the article proceeds, it mentions the four things that are hindering women from achieving equality: Sexism, workplace flexibility, Affordable quality childcare, and social norm. For all these four topics, the author states that although the situation has been getting better, it is still not enough to reach the ultimate equality for men and women. Furthermore, she shows the need of change in the women's behavior it self to amend to difference. Although the article supports the achievability of gender equality, the writer asserts that the social changes have been insufficient to make social changes that can lead to equality. 
Argument 
According to a survey conducted in 2000, the ratio of male and female in the workplace differed to approximately 74% to 49%. 34.3% of women are not in a working environment because they have to take care of the household, and only 2.2% of men are not in a working environment for the same reason. Through the statistical values, we can see that the difference between the two genders is very large. According to figure 1, which shows the age of both genders that is in a workplace, we can see that as the age gets closer to the marriageable age, less women tend to work outside. (Cho, 2004) Such trend shows that there are fewer women in the Korean working environment that can contribute to the average income of women, which consequently lowers the women's average income. 
Source: KNSO (2001b) 
In addition to the general number of male and female workers, there is also difference within women that affects women's average income. Cho. D (2011) states that educated women tend to work less than less educated women. His writing claims that the labor force participation rate (LFPR) suggest that there are approximately 20% difference of rate between women with college degree and women with high school degree or less that gets a job or a working position. However, the LFPR shows that the number of working women with college degrees shows a decreasing trend as they age. For example, approximately75% of women in their 20's work, but as they get reach their 30's, the number drops approximately by 20%. From then, the rate drops constantly as the women age. On the other hand, the rate of working women with high school degrees or less tend to grow until they reach their 50's. For example, about 50% of women work in their 20's and 30's, but the rate jumps to about 65% in their 40's, and finally drops back to about 50% in their 50's. Such trend has massive impact on the women's average income because women with higher educational degrees tend to get jobs with higher incomes, but they do not work as much as women with lower education degrees, thus lowering the average income. 
In addition to the number of women workers in the Korean society, the quality of jobs also differs between men and women. According to Shin (2003), there are high differences in the positions that men and women achieve. For example, a survey done in 1999 shows that for occupations such as executive manager and professional technician, males are dominant in such fields by 6.4% more and 10.4% more, respectively. On the other hand, women tend to be dominant in occupations such as clerical and service sale by21.5% and 8.2% more than men. Such data shows that male are much more dominant in higher paying occupations than females, which can affect the general pay gap differences. In addition, the table shows that there are more males with higher position than women. The table shows that males in positions such as executive officer, general manager, and depute manager are at least twice more than females. Such position difference may occur since most women work less due to pregnancy. Since higher positions tend to lead to higher salary, this also affects the pay gap issue. 
The biological differences as well as the social roles of men and women play significant role in the pay gap issue. The discussion about the effects on pregnancy on the working environment is still quite varied. Such uncertainty is due to the variation of stress and physical impact caused by different works to different people. Regular physical activities such as working long hours, late night shift, standing still, etc. have a very little negative impact on the woman's body, but stress can negatively impact the body and the baby. Although most physical activities do not harm the woman's body, when they fall, it may damage the baby severely. A statistical data shows that approximately 25% of women who are in their 5th-7th months in pregnancy tend to fall down and 23% of these falls occur in a working environment. 
In addition to the effect of pregnancy on the working environment for women, being pregnant itself hinders women from getting higher positions in jobs. According to professor Carolyn Perrucci, winner of the Helen Schleman Award and the Violet Hass Award for service to women, expresses similar reasons why gender equality cannot be achieved. "They [women] are more likely to work a while, drop out, get married, get children, come back in, drop out again, take care of an elderly parent, come back in." As such, women's career routes tend to be very infrequent, due to their biological obligations, thus hindering them from working as much as men. Since women tend to work less than men, it is harder for women to be promoted and have higher position, which usually leads to higher income. Therefore, the average income of women is not as high as that of men. In addition, because of such companies tend to hire fewer women due to such infrequent amount of work that women do. 
Conclusion 
Emma Watson, an actress and the UN Women Goodwill Ambassador, expressed her opinion on gender inequality during the international women's day. "At current rates, no, it's not possible to achieve gender equality." (Oshmyansky, 2015) Although this paper is only about Korea, I believe that this statement applies to all the countries in the world. Despite the rapid social changes that allow women to have more rights than before, it is still insufficient to change the world. However, it is not to say that since its impossible, we should cease the effort in achieving equality. Although it may seem almost impossible, we should develop new ways and evolve our society to a better and more equal civilization. 
