More Than Food Option, 
Fast Food Is Widely Accepted 
by Most People 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
The fast food has been developed and popular for decades that generates its own culture and spread it worldwide. However, some people consider it to blame for some serious diseases and fast-food chains also face with problems on food safety. Nowadays, people change their perspective on fast food. However, fast food is still wildly accepted by most people and customers should also take charge of their health and eat at fast-food restaurants with healthier options. Meanwhile, fast-food companies should make improvement. 
Key Words: Fast Food; Business Chains; Food Culture; Obesity. 
Introduction 
Fast food, from the literal sense, is the concept of the food that can be served quickly and often easily packaged for take-away. This pattern of food supply can date from Ancient Rome, and has developed rapidly over the past 60 years. Usually, it only takes a couple minutes to get the order at the fast-food restaurants. As people getting on the fast track of life, they can easily get satisfied to have fast food. Besides, fast food has various options with all kinds of flavors. There's a tremendously strong market for fast food. Fast-food restaurants and companies keep their products inexpensive and have spent much money and effort on advertising as well, which would be illustrated as the main factor of business marketing in the following page. 
In general, fast food is very convenient for people with busy lifestyles and fast-food business develops a strong marketing to make it more popular. But not just the options of food, fast food can also be regarded as a kind of popular culture and varies around the world. Burgers and pizza are the best-known fast food category in the US. As in UK, conventional fast food used to be renowned for fish and chip, and food from other culture also has been adopted. Crucially, it's a quite substantive and direct way of cultural exportation. Indeed, "the United States has the largest fast food industry in the world, and American fast food restaurants are located in over 100 countries." Anonymous. 2008 
Nowadays, people are changing their fast-pace lifestyles into healthier ones. However, eating patterns based on fast food would significantly increase the intake of salt and fat, which are basically the main components in it. Thus traditional fast food with high calories clearly may be unable to satisfy people who want to keep fit and slim. In general, it's a tangled condition that they prefers a healthier diet now and might not accept fast food as they used to. The changes of people's perception would also be discussed in the following page. 
The Popular Culture of Fast Food 
As automobiles became popular after World War I, "Walter Anderson had built the first White Castle restaurant, generally credited with opening the second fast food outlet and first hamburger chain" National Public Radio 2002 Indeed, fast food can be regarded as a significant symbol of American culture to some extent. The famous "Uncle Sam", Samuel Wilson, was a meat packer from Troy, New York, who supplied rations for the soldiers during the War of 1812. (Uncle Sam on Wikipedia And he was so honest and reliable, not afraid of hardship, with strong patriotism, that he has been regarded as the national symbols. The spirit of him inspired that generation. Afterwards, Harland David Sanders founded the KFC, which is one of the most famous American fast-food chains and also the second biggest fast-food company in the world. 
Fast food has different versions with growing popularity in common worldwide. And this is substantive and direct way of cultural exportation. For example, Japanese sushi has been increasingly popular and people get to know tatami and "Omurice", together with Japanese culture. Chinese takeaways offer a wide variety of Asian food are all the rage and it's popular to learn Chinese to order the meal. 
The fast-food-industry business has been on the model of "low wages, non-existent benefits, and limited work hours".( Allegretto, S., Jacobs, K., Doussard, M., Graham-Squire, D., Dan, T., & Thompson, J. 2013) In this way, the provider can keep the price inexpensive to attract more customers. And the fast-food companies do a very good job on advertising operation. There are many instances of successful business marketing. Fast-food restaurants often offer regular flavors with the occasional "limited time" ones and the giveaways of limited edition. For example, Mc Donalds always launches kids' meals with fancy toys to attract children and their parents as well. 
Fast-food Industry and Chains: "Healthy" Fast Food 
However, as the provider, fast-food companies should focus more on healthy food and offer more options besides the economic purpose. Some fast-food restaurant chains may declare that they offer healthy options but the research group has concerned the relation between fast food and diseases, so they did chemical analyses on several samples consisting of chips and fried chicken. It turns out that most food contains excessive industrially produced trans-fatty acids, the high intake of which is quite relating to the risk of obesity and may gradually leading to serious condition like type- diabetes and coronary artery disease. However, it would be improvable for fast-food chains to reduce portions to normal sizes and eliminate industrially produced trans-fat, and offer food menus with reliable nutritional labeling as well. (Stender, S., Dyerberg, J., & Astrup, A. 2007) 
Some people think fast food may have problems on food safety. Good streamlines, qualifications of employees and food processing are the basic assurance of food safety, essentially. At fast-food restaurants, most menus contain lettuce, potatoes and chicken and fast food companies bought in large quantities, so there should be some quality inspections on ingredients. Fast-food companies should have strict safety control on primary food ingredients and food processing. Besides, employees are supposed to have a basic understanding of food safety standards, which is comparatively rare in home-style or small restaurants. Because they may be family members, not trained for this system, with a relatively high turn-over. 
Although, there are public displays of fast-food chains to show people every steps of how fast food is made. It's convincing for the guarantee of food safety. Most fast-food chains, especially big famous companies, have operative measures to guarantee food safety. 
Fast food has safety problems 
Despite fast food being increasingly popular, there are still many people who blame some healthy problems like obesity on it. As for food safety, the bad events would persist and affect the way people perceive fast food. As news reported, Taco bell, one of the most famous fast-food companies, once put an emergency recall for microbiological contamination with E. coli. In contrast, chickens have some infectious diseases, so the source should be strictly controlled to make sure that chicken is safely edible. Most fast-food restaurants can deal with it well and thus 
there're few recalls of chicken products. Overall, fast-food business does have issues on food safety but so far with few outbreaks yet. 
There's an article that reviews on the relationship among fast food, energy and obesity to find out whether fast foods are linked to the epidemic of obesity. The research finding suggests that the food with high energy density would down-regulate our ability to maintain energy balance, which is called "passive over-consumption". And this disturbance would gradually lead to weight gaining. According to the composition data, most of fast foods have an extremely high energy density. Therefore, the high energy density of fast food would disorder appetite control systems of human bodies, and hence to cause obesity. (Prentice, A. M., & Jebb, S. A.) 
"The Western diet, characterized by large intakes of foods high in fat/sugar/sodium, red/processed meat, and refined grains, has been linked to onset of many chronic diseases including cancer." (Bowman, S. A., Gortmaker, S. L., Ebbeling, C. B., Pereira, M. A., & Ludwig, D. S 2004) There are various substitutions to get a healthy diet, like changing for low-fat sauce. Offering food menus with reliable nutritional labelling, especially in calories, can also help customers know what they can get. 
People's Perspective on Fast Food 
People are changing their fast-pace lifestyles into healthier ones to be more productive. Thus traditional fast food with high calories clearly may be unable to satisfy people who want to keep fit and slim. People would gain weight gradually and obesity may lead to more serious conditions like cardiovascular disease eventually. And some people stop eating fast food for health. The other part of people may turn fast food down because they want to support local restaurants instead of big fast-food corporations. 
However, there are still many people who eat fast food very often and even take it as a vogue. These are the people who might work very busy or not feel like to have regular food, who would face a higher risk of health problems. In general, people favor fast food for its advantages and the tasty food. Meanwhile, it's a tangled condition that they prefers a healthier diet now and might not accept fast food as they used to. 
In fact, the dietary calories are about 2000 to 2200 calories for male and 1600 to 1800 calories a day on average. According to experiment, men and old people consume fast food more than women did. Basically people can choose a balanced diet depending on what they consumes a day. We can do some research and be aware when eating at fast-food restaurants. And the moderation is very important from her point of view. The times of having fast food should be kept as few as possible in a week. There's nothing wrong with it if you have fast food once in a while. Moreover, a healthy lifestyle is far more than what we eat. People should also work out regularly to keep fit. 
Conclusion 
Based on the successful business model and its own advantages, fast food has been very popular and accepted by most people worldwide, despite faced with many problems at the same time. And it's also the symbols of different areas and cultures. The companies are supposed to make a rebalance towards a healthier diet. In this way, fast food would be more acceptable to the general public. 
Reference 
Allegretto, S., Jacobs, K., Doussard, M., Graham-Squire, D., Dan, T., & Thompson, J. (2013). Fast food, poverty wages: the public cost of low-wage jobs in the fast-food industry. Center for Labor Research & Education University of California Berkeley. 
An, R., & Liu, J. (2015). Fast-food and full-service restaurant consumption in relation to daily energy and nutrient intakes among us adult cancer survivors, 2003-2012. Nutrition & Health. 
Anonymous. (2008). Food and beverage serving and related workers. Occupational Outlook Handbook (January). 
Bowman, S. A., Gortmaker, S. L., Ebbeling, C. B., Pereira, M. A., & Ludwig, D. S. (2004). Effects of fast-food consumption on energy intake and diet quality among children in a national household survey. Pediatrics, 113(1), 112-118. 
National Public Radio (2002). "The Hamburger". NPR. Retrieved November 23, 2007. 
Prentice, A. M., & Jebb, S. A. (2003). Fast foods, energy density and obesity: a possible mechanistic link. Obesity Reviews An Official Journal of the International Association for the Study of Obesity, 4(4), 187-194. 
Stender, S., Dyerberg, J., & Astrup, A. (2007). Fast food: unfriendly and unhealthy. International Journal of Obesity, 31(6), 887-890. 
The news about Taco Bell's recall, website: http://www.foodsafetynews.com/2013/01/lettuce-for-kfc-and-taco-bell-in-canada-recalled/#. Vl S1at_48gs 
Uncle Sam on Wikipedia, website: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncle_Sam 
Running Head: MORE THAN FOOD OPTION, FAST FOOD Is WIDELY ACCEPTED by MOST PEOPLE 	2 
Running Head: MORE THAN FOOD OPTION, FAST FOOD Is WIDELY ACCEPTED by MOST PEOPLE 	1 
