Technology, The New Teaching Aid 
Throughout the years technology has been growing constantly. We have now reached a world where the use of technology is no longer an option but a necessity. Having technology available in schools and teaching young students with the use of it can offer a type of education that in previous years could not have been possible. These types of technologies like, tablets, mobile devices as well as the Internet offer the students the possibilities to learn at a faster rate and develop new abilities. How ever because of the delicacy of young children's mind there are also some risks to consider. 
Having technology available in the classroom can give students and teacher to have a more dynamic and interactive class. With the use of tablets, laptops and the Internet group activities inside the classroom are much more efficient and help the students develop a group working environment. Which if they where to learn how to work and collaborate in groups at a young age it would benefit them throughout their whole academic and professional life. According to a paper written Heather Grinager, when technology is used the right way inside the classroom and during the tasks the students are handed during class, their high-order thinking abilities as well as their problem solving are to improve. 
One the current obstacles in teaching with the use of technology to young kids, is that not all the teacher are well prepared. A educator that has not been mentored right may harm the students instead of helping them. However there is currently a lot of motivation and support from school in offering the teacher programs in which there are capacitated. This helps the young kids see the educators use the devices in an efficient way and help in maintain them concentrated and not drift off during class. 
Young students have the opportunity to have a new a exiting learning experience. An experience which offers a lot of possibilities that where not possible some years ago. The young minds are the future of this world, and right now there is a chance to improve how these young minds develop. 
