15 November 2015 
Outline 
Food Safety and Food Diversity for International Students 
Thesis: Colleges need to improve the education of food safety for students, especially for international students, to avoid high rate of food-borne illness among college students. Colleges may need to do researches to find out through what kind of medias students would like to receive these information. 
I. Students report food-borne illness due to inappropriate approach to deal with certain unfamiliar food. 
a. A lot of international students have no experience in dealing with pre-processed food before. While working in the dining court, I noticed that people just take the food packages out of the refrigerator and process them. This is so different from a lot of other countries, where people would like to buy fresh ingredients from markets and cook them. 
b. Students can easily get food-borne illness due to choose unfamiliar restaurants off-campus or cook unfamiliar ingredients inappropriately. Like what Blichfeldt has mentioned in his article, international students in the host country may not just follow the tradition of their family cooking styles. They may also try some new cooking styles from the host country and other countries. This could increase the chances of getting food-borne illness. 
II. Some may argue that the food safety problem in the dining courts is highly considered and monitored. Students can also find a lot of diversity in the food which dining courts provide. 
a. According to the interview with a supervisor in the dining court, <name> , the dining service on-campus try to improve their diversity in the food and always look forward to suggestions and comments. They always try to increase the diversity of the food provided in the dining court to attract more students to eat there. And they also always open for any voices from the students. 
b. Based on my working experience in the dining court before, the food safety standard in the dining courts is very high. Every time you enter the food-preparation area, you would be asked to wash your hands for more than twenty seconds, for example. And they also get rid of the unused food every night, although it seems a little wasteful. 
III. The reality is that students would choose food provided in off-campus restaurants or learn to cook on their own, to seek for more ethic food and lower cost. 
a. Students may eat in the on-campus food service during their first year in college, during which time they are required to live on-campus. But they would most likely eat in a lot of unfamiliar restaurants or cook on their own when they move out of dorms.(Robinson et all, 3) 
b. Eating in some unfamiliar restaurants or cook on their own could bring a lot of unpredictable results. Students may encounter with a lot of food safety problems due to the lacking of knowledge about food safety information. (Robinson et all, 3). Like I personally have no experience about making American style "cold foods" and how to make sure the ingredients can be safe and bacteria-free without heating. 
IV. The food safety information program is lacking and needed in colleges and food information should be more indicated on the labels. 
a. Colleges should pay more attention to the education of for safety information via medias students prefer to receive these information.(Federico,3) I noticed that Purdue has a gap in the food safety education part, or at least the program is not noticeable enough. A lot of students, both domestic and international, are lacking the kind of knowledge about food safety. This lacking could results in intense problems later, food poisoning, for instance. 
b. The labels provide very limited food safety information to students who are not familiar with the ingredients. This may cause a lot of food-borne illness when students try to deal with these unfamiliar ingredients. (Federico, 3) Again, I personally can not find much useful information on how to store the cheese properly and how to know it has gone bad on the package. 
V. International students may face more challenges in the food safety problems and colleges should pay more attention about this situation. 
a. International students do not only stick with their own country dishes, but tend to try other kinds of food. (Almohanna,4) People are taking more risks while dealing with unfamiliar things, the same case with food. International students might need to get in touch with food they are allergic to but they have no idea until they try it. 
b. International students would face a lot of problems, such as change of food patterns, worry about unhealthy food of the host counties and dealing with unfamiliar food ingredients. International students are more likely to cook their own food, because they are not used to the local food of the host counties. 
c. Colleges may want to pay attention to the needs of international students while designing the food safety education programs, especially colleges like Purdue, which has a huge base of international students. These programs should definitely teach students how to deal with ingredients used a lot in the cooking style of the host countries, but they also should include information about ingredients which could be used in other kinds of dishes. 
VI. Colleges should also do surveys to find out what kind of medias should be used to deliver the food safety information they provide to students. 
a. Students nowadays have preference about receiving information. They are unlikely to attend some kinds of food safety lectures voluntarily. And unwillingly attending would results in bad absorption of the information. College students have already attended enough lectures in their daily academic life. 
b. Colleges have to find a way or a media, which is novel enough to get students' full attention to the problem and understand the importance under this particular problem. For example, the college could hold some kinds of fun parties or contests related to the food safety problem. Or they could just put this food safety education program in BGR, which would draw attentions from more students. 
