Effective Ways to Improve Working Mothers' Working Environments 
Nowadays, a growing number of mothers are willing to have their own jobs rather than being just housewives. In the past, women usually stayed home and took care of the younger ones. Discrimination toward working mothers was common in the workplace. Although the number of working mothers is increasing, their companies have not made many changes to provide more comfortable working environments for working mothers. In order to give working mothers better working environments, companies should make accommodations and people in the offices should be more understanding to help alleviate discrimination against working mothers. 
One of the reasons why working mothers struggle to take care of both their families and jobs is that their companies do not provide them with enough support. In many companies, working mothers do not have flexible schedules, and many of them have a hard time to leave working early or work from home. As a result, they might not be able to pick up their children from school buses or drop them off at sports practices. The struggle often comes to a point where working mothers have to make hard decisions: it is either the jobs or the children. Anita Little wrote in her article "The Cold Truth behind Silicon Valley's Egg Freezing" that the "real answer to helping women juggle parenting and work starts with finding more supportive ways to ease the burden of childrearing in a way that allows women to stay on their career path". If working mothers can finish their work in an effective and productive way, they will have more time and energy to take care of their children after work. Therefore, companies should provide working mothers with compensations such as working from home, worksharing, or flexible work schedules to help reduce their stress and burden. This way, working mothers can take good care of both their jobs and their children. 
Working mothers have to not only stay on top of their careers, but also fight against the harsh standards. People in the offices often judge working mothers with harsher standards than female workers without any children. These people think that mothers tend to get distracted from work by their younger ones and thus they are not as productive and competitive as non-mother workers. This makes it hard for working mothers to get higher payments, better treatments, or even promotions. Joan Williams wrote in her article "Woman and Work: Heavy Lifting, Part II - Discrimination Against Mothers in the Workplace" that if people "continue to refuse accommodations to pregnant women -- whether those accommodations are help lifting a 50-pound box a more flexible tenure timeline -- gender inequality isn't going anywhere". This means that unless people try to be more understanding and not judge working mothers by harsher standards, the discrimination against working mothers will not be reduced in the workplace. It is important for people to understand that just because these female workers have children, it does not necessarily mean that they do not perform as well as the non-mother workers. 
