P5d3_arp 
December 11, 2015 
Should Affirmative Action Continue in the Higher Education? 
Is affirmative action keeping us away from helping those in need? 
What is often misunderstood about affirmative action is that it gives an unconditional advantage to minorities. Affirmative action policies are those in which an institution or organization actively engages in efforts to improve opportunities for historically excluded groups in American society. (NCSL, 2014). By definition, affirmative action believes in equality and opportunities for those who are historically disadvantaged. While some believe it is not fair, it is important to remember how racial discrimination still exists today. Also, socioeconomic status, social position, and educational background of African-Americans, Latinos, and Native Americans in the United States tend to be lower than those of Caucasian-Americans. Affirmative action has three main strengths, and I'm going to focus in college level. It promotes diversity in colleges, helps reducing effects of racial discrimination, and closes educational gaps between majority and minority and poor and rich, which will raise educational standards and socioeconomic status of minority higher. 
By admitting diverse applicants with affirmative action, colleges can achieve diverse student body. Many colleges nowadays put a huge emphasis on campus diversity. Diversity in colleges expands worldliness. To some of the people, college might be the first time to have a real interaction with people from diverse groups. It allows people to get out of their comfort zones and interact with different people (Hyman and Jacobs, 2009). According to an article written by Sophia Kerby, "Learning with people from variety of backgrounds encourages collaboration and fosters innovation, thereby benefitting all students. Research shows that the overall academic and social effects of increased racial diversity on campus are likely to be positive, ranging from higher level of academic achievement to the improvement of near-and long-term intergroup relations." (Kerby, 2012) 
There is still racism in the United States society, which also appears to be in colleges. By using affirmative action, colleges admit more students of color, making racially inclusive school environments. In the racially inclusive environment, racial discrimination can decrease because students are more exposed to different races, can better understand others, and overcome with stereotypes. The reason why affirmative action helps mitigating effects of racism is that racism is not a problem that can be easily defined. It is the perceptions of people that have to change. For many people, prejudices and stereotypes lead to discrimination even if it is not intended. Without specific, numerical goals, it has been found that many people and organizations continue to practice discrimination while professing agreement with equal opportunity (Kivel, n.d.). For these reasons, policies like affirmative action is needed in order to make the environment where people of color can coexist with other to overcome and reduce discrimination. 
Lastly, closing educational gaps between majority and minority and poor and rich is significant because there are stereotypes and bad cycles for minorities and poors. For minorities, educational expectations are generally low, and it passes on generation to generation. Also, poor people tend to work rather than study to keep their livings. If we think about how public schools are financed in the Untied States, in the rich neighborhoods, schools have more grants, which means better teachers and better school systems, while poor neighborhoods are financed poorly with education. In order to break these bad cycles and stereotypes, affirmative action should be put in place so that educational gaps can close, and it can change people's attitude and thoughts towards minorities and poors. 
	Many critics who are opposed to affirmative action believe that affirmative action works as a reverse discrimination. According to the court case of Fisher v. University of Texas, the University of Texas has a policy of admitting all in-state students who graduated in the top ten percent of their high school classes. For the remainder of the in-state freshman class, the university would consider race as a factor in admission. Abigail Fisher, a Caucasian female, applied to the University of Texas in 2008. Fisher was not in the top ten percent of her class, so she competed for admission with other non-top ten percent in-state applicants. The University of Texas denied Fisher's application. This clearly cannot be called reverse discrimination. Race may be the factor of admissions, but there is never a guarantee for anything when it comes to college admissions. As long as affirmative action is put into place appropriately and kept to help in positive ways, it is not going to discriminate reversely. 
As mentioned above, affirmative action is not fully understood by many people. Colleges should make their admissions policies regarding affirmative action clear and reasonable. It is important to also raise awareness of its intended purpose and what it has done to provide equality rather than its few negative effects. People should understand why it is still needed and right for this world. Diversity in colleges, closing the educational gaps between minority and majority groups, and reducing effects of racial discrimination are something that we need to work on until people see our society not in black and white and rich and poor but as same human beings. 
