Educational Inequality : Educational Institution(s) Is The Better Solution 
Argumentative Essay 
Date : 20th April 2015 
Purdue University 
Author's note 
Abstract 
	For decades, the consistent economic growth of the world is yet to meet its goal of closing achievement gap between rich and poor. To make it worse, the achievement gap eventually evolves into educational disparity, as perceived. Thus, this study aims to debunk the misconception that government's lackadaisical attitude is the reason behind existence of educational inequity and identifies educational institution as the factor of all these disparities. In this paper, my research question is "Is educational institution the better solution than government in handling educational inequality?" As the studies show, the recent trend essentially suggests that educational inequality grows primarily in educational institution rather than outside of the schools. The trend shows a concrete support towards educational institution as a better solution for educational inequality. Therefore, I argue on how effectively can educational institution handle educational inequity through implementing mandatory summer school(Augustine & Schwartz, 2011), offering need-based financial aids or admission (Fox, 2014) and expand the teaching objective to include the emotional development of stereotyped students (Snower, 1st January 2014). In brief, the result of the arguments intends to show how effectively can educational institution in resolving the educational disparity through its centrality and influence. 
Keywords : Educational inequality, Educational institution, Better solution. 
Educational Inequality : Educational Institution Is The Better Solution 
	Educational inequality is the difference in the learning results, or efficacy, experienced by students coming from different ethnic groups due to the unequal distribution of resources and opportunity(Williams, 1996). Nowadays, educational inequality has progressively evolved from a social issue to a global issue and subsequently pervaded the world. Despite the growth of global economy, the achievement gap between rich and poor appears to be significantly widening, which contradicts the objective of narrowing chasm between people from different social class(Raden , March 23,2015). The acuteness of this phenomena signifies a shift of attention and blames from government, who diligently drives the national economy with proven track records, to the shoulders of educational institutions, according to Raden's report in San Diego Free Press(March 23 ,2015). The current trend essentially suggests that educational inequality grows primarily in educational institution rather than outside of the schools (<Name>, personal communication, February 24th, 2015). The existence of educational inequality developed sense of awareness in me, and had me started to further research about the issue. Through doing tremendous amount of researches, I found out that educational institutions have become increasingly vital in handling educational inequality due to all the evidences witnessed in recent years. In fact, educational institution will potentially be more effective than government in equalizing the existing educational inequity through implementing mandatory summer school(Augustine & Schwartz, 2011), offering need-based financial aids or admission (Fox, 2014) and expand the teaching objective to include the emotional development of stereotyped students(Snower, 1st January 2014). 
	Educational institution can abate the severe achievement gap through implementing mandatory summer school(Augustine & Schwartz, 2011). In recent years, schools have been proven to be reproducing and even exacerbating the educational disparities by sociology theorists through summer fallback (Farkas, 2002), a scientific term for the aggravation of achievement gap due to resources available to different students during summer vacation (Downey,Von Hippel & Broh, 2004). According to Schwartz (2011) in How Summer Programs Can Boost Children's Learning, students, particularly those low-income students, will experience learning loss during summer due to the loss of substantial ground for reading. In order to reduce the effect of summer fallback, mandatory summer programs should be implemented to mitigate summer learning losses, which was identified as the primary factor for achievement gap and educational disparity(Augustine, 2011). In their meta-analysis of 93 studies in United States, Copper et al. (2000) found that summer school programs tremendously reduced the deviation of achievement by at least one seventh when it first launched. Copper also suggests that summer programs comprised of rigorous academic curricular will stimulate academic advancement and cognitive development in students during summer to minimize the effect of summer fallback. In fact, students who attend summer programs regularly will tend to have better outcomes upon graduations than peers who do not (Augustine & Schwartz ,2011). Therefore, mandatory summer program will be essentially beneficial in combating educational disparity if implemented aptly by educational institutions. 
	Educational institutions, especially colleges, can lessen the educational disparity through offering need-based scholarships and admissions to low-income students(Fox,2014). The transformation from need-blind policy to need-based policy is genuinely needed to eliminate the effect of social stratification towards educations(Attewell & Newman, 2010). As we readily acknowledge that the existence of social stratification tends to benefit only privileged families who can afford education, and eliminate or minimize the opportunity of low-income students to afford education(Newman, 2010). Ashleigh Fox (2014) stated in Scholarships should focus on merit to promote equality that need-blind scholarships or college admissions should be abolished in order to pave ways for low-income but high performing students to college. For centuries, low-income students have failed to enter college not due to academic disqualification but more likely due to financial constraint(Fox, 2014). While struggling to pay for tuition fees, these low-income students face another setbacks when the need-blind financial aid policy favors those students from higher social class who tend to achieve much more with the resources available (Fox,2014). Cumulatively, these low-income students, despite the efforts they put forth amidst the struggles outside the class, hardly make it to college and have a chance to break the barriers of social stratification. Essentially, the achievement gap will continuously be drifted further and strengthen the existence of educational inequity gradually (Fox, 2014). Therefore, it is vital for educational institution to execute need-based policy to help everyone overcomes the unjust social stratification through education. 
	Besides, educational institution should also expand the teaching objective to include the emotional development of stereotyped students(Snower, 2014). Today, our educational system focuses mainly on the results or outcomes of students rather than emphasizes on the learning process of students(Ashton, personal communication, February 24th ,2015). Most often, educators' negligence on existing stereotype, which usually falls along racial line and economic equity, strengthens the effects of negative thoughts projected on students from certain ethnicity (Williams, 1996). For instance, racial stereotypes, which typically prejudge the ability to succeed of certain ethnicity, greatly impairs the self-esteem of students from particular ethnicities and subsequently affects their academic performances in schools. Accordingly, the educators or schools should take initiative to assist the minority students overcome stereotype through refocus and expand their educational goals from cultivating knowledge to instilling self-confidence and self-criticism among those students (Snower, 2014). The objective of focusing on the emotional aspects of students is to help them overcome negative stereotype and break through the social barriers, which have been hindering the students from advancing mentally. Subsequently, those students, who have right state of mind set and high self-esteem, will prevail over those stereotypes and leap forward into the bracket of excellence (Portes, 2005). Ergo, the educational institution can help students overcome negative stereotype, which is deemed as one of the contributor to educational inequality, through expanding its educational goals to include emotional development of students. 
	In retrospect, educational institution genuinely is the better solution in handling educational inequality than government does due to its capability to implement compulsory summer program, modify institution's policy, and expand the teaching objective to emotional aspects. If applied aptly, these measurements will assist not just the government, but also the country to overcome educational inequality, which has been a chronic social disease that plagues the socioeconomics development of a nation. Evidently, the efforts put forth by government in combating educational inequality has not been very effective for decades. Therefore, I strongly believe that educational institutions have to step up and play a major part in resolving the problems due to the fact that educational inequality actually arises from schools. Like Portes (p16, 2012) said, "Although the task seems daunting, and the evidence shows that we have been on the wrong track, but I still believe we can do much better if we start to be aware of the root of problem". Since we have successfully identified the root of educational inequality lies in educational institution, so we need to take the initiatives to facilitate educational institutions in their implementation of solution to yield a better and more just society, then a fair world. 
(1070 words) 
