How does online shopping industry benefit our daily lives 
Online shopping is one of the fastest growing shopping trends in many parts if the world, and China is one of them. Its growth has been in terms of increasing popularity where more people are choosing to use this shopping method while others spend more money on their online shopping. Evidence of the increasing popularity of online shopping in China is shown by statistics from China Industrial Information 2015, that showed turnover of online shopping industry in the year 2014 of China was four trillion and this was the highest amount in the world para. 1. Also, five years ago, Pekingese spent only 2 Yuan from the Internet for every 100 Yuan of consumption but currently the amount has increased to 16 Yuan Beijing Evening News, 2015. This growing trend has obviously come with some effects. Most of the effects are positive while there are some which are negative. In this paper, I will discuss how beneficial online shopping is to the society under the thesis statement, "Online shopping has big positive impact on the society." In developing this paper, I will discuss information gotten from previous research on this topic which is mainly evidence of the growing popularity of online shopping in China. 
To start with, one of the benefits of online shopping is that it brings convenience to shoppers Kornum, & Bjerre, 2005. In many activities that people do or are faced with several options to choose from, convenience always becomes a major determinant of the choice the people make. This is mainly due to the natural human nature of wanting to do things through the easier option or the fact that there are so many activities to do and therefore choosing the easiest ways of doing most of them is the best idea so as to for example save on time or even costs. Online shopping therefore becomes a really useful and helpful way of buying items since it offers the much needed convenience. Gong et al, 2013, P. 0 discusses this convenience of online shopping where they argue in their article that many Chinese people have come to realize that the internet provides a very convenient environment for shopping. 
This convenience to shoppers comes through a number of ways. For example, it reduces costs of travel to physical stores to buy the items from there and this too saves on time. This is because one will comfortably do their shopping from their house and wait for the items to be delivered at their doorstep Clemes et al., 2013, P365, Para 10. Another way that convenience has been improved is that shoppers can access different online sellers of the same product at the same time and this gives them the ability to compare the different options still at the comfort of their homes before choosing which option suits them best depending on factors such as price, reviews of previous customers and so on. 
Moreover, online shopping helps people to start businesses. It has very low entry barriers such as little capital requirements and therefore anyone can start such a business easily. The businesses are of benefit to their immediate owners and also the general society as they create employment and therefore improving living conditions for many people. Under this point, there are already some of my friends who make a living from online selling and this gives them enough money to sustain their lives through school. Online shopping also helps other industries to develop. Courier services industry is one such industries that benefit from online shopping as the sellers normally use it to deliver the goods to the buyers. Growth and development of these industries help in creation of more jobs in the economy and therefore improving the living standards of people. 
What's more, the buyers are able to get a good bargain on products. In many cases, products on the online market are at lower prices from those in the physical stores. This is because the online sellers do not incur expenses such as rent for a business premises and other utility expenses. They therefore put lower prices for their products and shoppers can save on the costs. This is a really good benefit to buyers since many buyers consider price as one of the main factors before they settle for which items to buy. Good prices for the products therefore benefits them the shoppers who can now buy more products at the lower prices. 
Another benefit is that by online shopping offering goods at reduced prices to the buyers, this brings competition to the other sellers who operate physical stores such as supermarkets. This competition is healthy in any market as the sellers will be forced to improve the quality of their services or even reduce prices so that they can continue attracting shoppers. When the prices are reduce or the quality of service is improved, it is the consumers who get to benefit. 
In conclusion, it is evident that online shopping is really helpful to people's everyday lives and therefore has a big positive impacts. This is terms of the main issues discussed above such as enhancing convenience of shopping, creating platform for many people to start businesses and also help to develop other related businesses which leads to creation of employment, improving of living standards and therefore improvement of the general welfare of the economy. Shoppers also benefit from buying goods at lower prices than in physical stores, increased competition for traditional sellers such as supermarkets who react by improving quality if their services or the prices. Due to these benefits, the practice of online shopping should therefore be encouraged as it will help the society even more. 
Reference 
China Industrial Information. 2015. The development of China's online shopping industry in 2014. Retrieved from http://www.chyxx.com/industry/201507/326325.html 
Beijing Evening News. 2015. Retrieved from http://society.people.com.cn/n/2015/0128/c136657-26466200.html 
Clemes, Gan, & Zhang 2013. An empirical analysis of online shopping in Beijing, China. Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services. Retrieved from: 10.1016/j.jretconser.2013.08. 003 
Gong, W., Stump, R. L., & Maddox, L. M. 2013. Factors influencing consumers' online shopping in china. Journal of Asia Business Studies, 73, 214-230. Retrieved from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JABS-02-2013-0006 
Kornum, N., & Bjerre, M. 2005. Grocery e-commerce. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar. 
