Analysis of the wireless power transfer system 
Draft #. 1 
4/2/16 
Analysis of the wireless power transfer system 
Introduction 
	Between 1885 and 1888, a great talent Nikola Tesla invented inductive motor which opened a revolution to the modern mechanic industry and led human into a more civilized electrical world. (David & Bunn, pg. 15) Tesla then invented another great invention: wireless power transfer system but no one accepted this system and turn it into an application. However, wireless power transfer is a more efficient way to conduct electricity than conduct electricity through wires. Like its name, wireless power transfer technology does not require wires to transmit electricity, it works simply. For a wireless transfer system, it has an inceptor and a receptor, the inceptor utilizes an inductor coil which can generate electricity electromagnetically, and receptor uses another coil plate to accept the electricity. (Choudhary, Singh, Kumar., pg. 205) It's like the signal transmission. However, the value of this technology is highly ignored by the modern industry. In this paper, I will analyze the wireless power from different aspects, compare with the modern power transmission, and prove my opinion: wireless power transfer is a more effective and efficient solution to the modern power supply system which utilizes the wires as the main media to transmit electricity. 
Background 
	Key concepts: 
1. Wireless power transfer system utilizes the resonance, which means the system vibrating and oscillating with an increasing amplitude. 
2. A resonant wireless power transmission system has a primary coil(inceptor) and a secondary coil on target product(receiver). 
3. In wireless power transmission system, electricity conduct through the electromagnetic wave between the inceptors and receivers and keep oscillating. 
Safety of the wireless power transmission 
	The first reason that why the wireless power transmission is the concern of the safety of the wireless power transmission. "People are very scared of it." (Ryan, 3/10/2016) Perhaps because these systems can efficiently exchange energy over mid-range distances, people may assume that they are being exposed to large and potentially dangerous electromagnetic fields when using these systems. However, this is not the case. Wireless power transfer technology does not transfer electricity in the air, and the electromagnetic field is not harmful to human body. According to the experiments which conducted by Witricity Co., a cooperation first found by the scholars of MIT focus on the wireless power transfer technology, when human stand near the vehicle being wirelessly charged at 3. 3 k W and expose the human tissue in the electromagnetic field, the absorption rate of the human body is nearly negligible. Thus, the wireless power transfer technology is totally safe for human. And according to Wi Tricity Co., wireless power transfer technology "make devices safer by eliminating the sparking hazard associated with conductive interconnections." Which means because of the wireless property of this technology, people do not need to plug wires, and eliminate the possibility of dangerous electric shock compare to the modern power transfer system. Therefore, wireless power is completely safe for human safe consideration. 
Efficiency of the wireless power transmission 
	People always concern about safety first; next people always want to know how they work better than the existed products. Because wireless power transmission does not conduct electricity through wires, and it works like signal transmission, people may assume that there will be a huge dissipation when using wireless power transmission system. Will there be any dissipation during the process? The answer is clearly no. Because the transmission is always conducting between the inceptor and receptor, the electricity will only be transmitted in the tunnel between them, and eliminate the dissipation. Depends on the usage of the wireless power transmission, wireless power transfer system is more efficient than the power transfer by wires. "In high power applications, such as charging of plug-in hybrid vehicles, end-to-end efficiencies (AC input to DC output) greater than 90% have been demonstrated." According to Wi Tricity Co. Because the resonance between the primary coil and secondary coil, the increment of the amplitude will increase the rate of the products receive the power, and make the charging process more efficient. Other restriction of the efficiency of the wireless power transfer system also includes distance, in other words, space restrictions. Usually, residents use their wireless power transmission in a mid-range distance between the inceptor and receptor in houses, there will be no necessary obstacles which block the resonance. Of course, there are tradeoffs ".incorporating resonators into them generally involves some tradeoffs in resonator size and system efficiency to accommodate the space restrictions" according to Wi Tricity. This situation may occur when space is complicated. However, in general, the efficiency of the wireless power transmission is enough for the daily usage in residential living and it performs better than the modern power transmission system. 
Technology benefits 
	Nowadays, the conductive wire is still a main solution to the power transfer system. And wires are actual products, they are profitable to the power industry. Compare with the power transfer system by wires, wireless power transfer technology may lack applications and profits. And because of this reason, the development of wireless power transfer is keeping a slow pace compares to other research or industrial manufacture. "Businessmen do not like this technology because they think if this technology gets developed, wires will have no market anymore, they will lose their fortune from the wire industry." (Ryan, 3/10/2016.) However, wireless power transfer system can be applied in other fields instead of only the wire industry. Wireless power transfer has the potential value in medication, new wireless chargeable products like smartphones or vehicles, wireless chargeable batteries, wireless housing lighting system, wireless chargeable remote unmanned airplanes/drones. (Wi Tricity Co.) Now the wireless products begin to show in our consumer market, like Samsung Galaxy S6, it has the wirelessly chargeable pad which enables the cellphone to recharge the battery wirelessly. According to Ryan, wireless power transfer system has huge potential value in the modern market, and it will change our life in the future. 
Conclusion 
Above, I mainly discussed the wireless power transfer system from its safety, efficiency, and its value and benefits. In conclusion, wireless power transfer technology is not harmful to human and it is very efficient, and it has a hugely valuable technology benefits for our daily life. Although there are some limits of the technology, but it is better than our modern power transfer system. Thanks to the electrical engineering giant Nikola Tesla, we have entered the electric era, maybe he will lead us into another era again with his great invention. 
