P5D3 
12/5/2015 
Personality Development in a Joint Family 
Joint families are support systems which help their members to be strong, healthy and wealthy. Everybody gives their opinion and each decision is taken together. I believe this arrangement hinders the individuality of a member and his decision making powers are not used especially if he is a younger member of the family. Sometimes there is not enough privacy given and most of the major decisions of life like the education and marriage are taken by the parents or other family members. I suggest that these type of arrangement let children take their own decisions and not do everything for them and also provide them with a little privacy which will help them to develop. 
The first reason that justifies my opinion to let children take their life decisions instead of spoon feeding them and give them privacy is that decision making is very important in life. The real world offers choices to every person on a daily basis and they have to choose the best option. Joint families do not give them this important power which makes them weak in front of everyone. Puja Mondal, the writer of "Joint family system of India" believes that children when grown up are not given a choice to select their partners; parents take this decision in a joint family. She explains that this has to change and due to modernization this is gradually changing. Everyone is interested in each other's life so there is no privacy given to person, which is very important in everyone's life. Making life decisions helps the person to develop in his own way. 
People may argue that in such an arrangement support is provided to younger generation and they are shown a right path for their life. I believe that this is true to an extent but too much of support and interference incapacitates their opinion. Life decisions like marriage and education should definitely be taken by the person himself as it's his life. Always showing right and wrong will not help them to grow as good human beings in future when it's their turn to do these works. They will have to depend on elders all their life which is not acceptable. Others may argue that the first and second generations are giving third and fourth generations a set platform to work from and take it to higher levels in terms of business. I feel this platform does not give a sense of satisfaction in a person that he has done something in life by himself and created an identity which is a very important feeling to have in a person's life. 
In conclusion, I believe that if joint families let the younger generations take their own decisions and give them privacy this will help them develop their personality and make them more successful in life. Making their individual identity and their family's name higher. Family members will have a better peace of mind and they will be more productive in return, everyone should have the power to keep their ideas in front of everybody. The support is much needed but to extent in which it is positive. Lastly, joint families are very enjoyable and they are a boon than a bane. 
