P5D1 
04/09/2016 
Globalization and the increasing number of overseas students had attracted people's attention on English teaching since 1980s. People started to realize that English teaching is problematic in China. Either the Ministry of Education or some private tuition centers had tried a lot of ways to change it, but problems still exist. To further improve English teaching in China, I think Chinese Ministry of Education should perfect English examination system. One way to achieve this is to specialize English examination. 
First and foremost, specializing English examination reduces unbalanced development of students' English functioning. As English teaching in China is exam-oriented and English examinations in China now focus only on testing reading and listening skills, speaking is unvalued in Chinese schools. Thus, students are not given many opportunities to practice speaking English, but required to put all their efforts in reading passages and memorizing vocabularies in schools. It is hard to change the exam-oriented education system as examination is still the most efficient way to test large population of students currently, so the Ministry of Education should create an examination that specializes in testing spoken language which will underline the importance of speaking and force teachers to change their teaching methods. Thus, students are provided more opportunities to speak English and English teaching in China will be more integrated. 
Secondly, the English examinations in colleges are too general to fulfill the different needs of different majors. CET-4 and CET-6 are the only two standard English examinations in colleges which are compulsory for every college student. Thus, colleges provide students English course to study for these two examinations. However, as the course and examinations only cover general English vocabularies and grammars which repeat parts of the English knowledge in high school, many students lose the interest in learning English in colleges. Also, for students who have to learn professional vocabularies in their majors, this kind of general English course is useless and they still need to study professional English by themselves. Thus, colleges should specialize English examinations for different majors to make English teaching in colleges more efficient and more helpful for students. This also help prepare students to apply graduate schools in foreign countries. 
Last but not least, as I have mentioned above, every college student has to take CET-4 and CET-6, and these two examinations are used to measure students' English level, however, I think this measurement is unscientific. For instance, students who study history and students who study literature must be required to know different categories of vocabularies, so they should not be tested by the same examinations which will result in an inaccurate reflection of students' real level. Also these general examinations cannot show their English level in their professional fields. Thus, specialized English examinations for different majors provide a more comprehensive evaluation for students' English proficiency. Also, the score of the specialized English examination will be a more persuasive reference in one student's resume. 
Many people may think that testing speaking will not improve students' spoken language but limit them because teachers will teach them some standard format to cope with the examination. And this will limit students' expression in a single way. However, the ultimate goal of specializing the speaking examination is not testing speaking but to attract schools' attention on teaching speaking skills and drive teachers to value speaking in their classes. It is true that many teachers may provide students standard formats to help them speak, but this also helps students build confidence in speaking when they score well. I believe this is a effective method to start the reformation. 
Others may argue that specializing examination in colleges for different majors requires large amount of resources and costs a lot. However, I believe that any reformation requires large amount of input at the beginning. Also, as the courses and examinations now repeats the knowledge in high school, these can be considered as a waste of resources though they cost less. Comparing with wasting the resources, I think investing more resources and creating a more efficient education system is more valuable and sustainable. 
When we cannot change an education system, the best we can do is to perfect it. In an exam-oriented education system, examination is the best tool that we can use to influence the teaching methods. Thus I believe specializing English examination is a effective way to improve English teaching in China. 
