P5d1_Argumentative Essay _ Final Draft 
April 15,2016 
Being Good Retailer is not Difficult 
In this economy-centered society, there are numerous shopping malls and other retailers appear to the market. However, this phenomenon also brings the series of competitive challenges among retailers. In order to be a successful retailer, it is necessary to be qualified. Some of people who do not know much of this job hold the view that being a good new retailer is very difficult because new retailers should face the changeable competition with existing retailers who have lots of experience. After doing the research from the Internet and having the interview with an expert in retail management, I believe that new retailers can over-reach existing retailers. 
A successful retailer usually should hold remarkable abilities in each area. In my perspective, I think it is easier for new retailers to learn that abilities than existing retailers. According to the expert I interviewed, new retailers can do better than existing retailers because new retailers are more likely to be well educated than existing retailers and they may know more area which related to retailing like marketing, merchandising, finance, communication skills and data analyze skills. Compare to existing retailer, some of them did not attend to the college. When they are retailing, they still use the basic business knowledge from high school or based on the life experience. Compare to existing retailers, new retailers hold these skills which can help new retailers to adapt this market in as soon as possible and improve their total retailing skills. Especially on online store, new retailers could do better on technology, however, many existing retailers could not handle the technology devices very well. That is to say, new retailers could sell the products through multiple channels, however, existing retailers could only sell the products through traditional retailing methods. 
Not only for online stores, but also for physical stores, new retailers always bring the new vigor and vitality into them. Being a good retailer, Blazquez (2014) asserts that Information Technology had changed customers feeling of shopping. That means, they hold the view that physical store retailers may face the huge challenge now. However, from my point of view, I think physical store retailers will not be defeated by online retailers because new retailers are more flexible to use their management skills, for example, they can take use of physical stores' own advantage like taking good advantage of visual merchandising like making the gorgeous window display, use the modern decoration and the beautiful music in order to offer customers an enjoyable shopping environment. Through that way, they can attract more customers to shopping at physical store. 
Besides, new retailers could bring new ideas on customer service. I have heard the conversation that it is difficult to be a new retailer because they think improving customer service is not easy. However, I hold the view that improving customer service could not only through offering considerable service when they are shopping. New retailers could make customer service become more vivid. For example, Tsui (2000) suggested that retailers could send the daily emails which include the latest fashion information and fashion advice. This method could not only be close to real customers, but also could attract customers to go shopping. In addition, physical store retailers could also use multiple channels to selling the products like through the other mobile devices. 
To put it into the nutshell, being a successful retailer is not as difficult as those people who is an existing retailer or who are not familiar with this job imagine. Although new retailers may meet series of difficulties and challenges, they still could do better than existing retailers. New retailers usually are easier to master these abilities and they could use new technology to create a new business models. Also, new retailers could bring new elements to physical stores because they are good at using management skills. In addition, new retailers could bring new ideas to customer service both for physical stores and online stores which could build up good relationship with customers. It is not difficult for a new retailer to exceed existing retailers because new retailers are more likely to come up with the new thoughts and use the new business models which are more suitable for the present market. For example, K-Mart used to be an experienced retailer, however, it is declined now. In contrast, Walmart as a new retailer is more popular now. Through these methods, being a successful new retailer is more simple than most of people thought. 
