The Computer Technology in College
In order to have more effective quality of teaching between teachers and students in and out of the classroom, people should use technologies in higher education more often.
Using the technologies in the classroom like power point, helps teachers give students exact information when sometimes it is difficult to explain it orally, and it makes easier for students to understand the material. According to Craig Lambert, "They post them on the course website the night before their section meets, view each other's work, then discuss the videos and podcasts in sections. (The final course project can be a written term paper, a video, a podcast, or a Power Point-style presentation)." (Lambert) This shows that teachers nowadays use the technologies to have more effective teaching quality. By using the powerpoint, teachers can put up pictures or even videos on the powerpoint to enhance the lectures. For example, my high school biology teacher always uses powerpoint for every single class. It helped us to understand those abtract concepts of biology. My teacher put up many pictures on powerpoint since sometimes it is hard to explain the material on the textbook only by words. Further more, it does not only give teacher an easier way to do the job, but also provides students a clearer way of understanding.
Secondly, we cannot deny the fact that most people do actually choose to use the technologies during teaching and learning. According to the article that Craig Lambert wrote, "The old-style classroom, grounded in spoken lectures and reading lists, is becoming obsolete. Images now dominate a new style of teaching in which visual, audio, and interactive formats rule, often trumping words as the dominant means of communication." Yes, this is true. In the higher education, students nowadays can submit their homework online, and they can even take online courses to receive credits. And it seems the teachers who use the techonologies like power point are easier to get the students' attention. Some old style way of teaching which is just talking and giving a lecture to all the students is a little boring compared to the modern style way of teaching. Since the teachers can grab more attention from the students, the students can gain more knowledge from it. Therefore, it creates more effective quality of the education.
Some of you might think that classroom technologies bring disadvantages while the technologies are benefitting people. Craig Lambert once wrote, "For example, the density of content that a tool like Power Point (now giving way to Keynote, which allows users to drop in audio and video tracks far more easily) makes possible can overwhelm an audience. "A scientist at a blackboard is always writing things down at a pace the students can take notes on and understand."Even though this is the case, we can not forget how much benefit using powerpoint brings us. Plus, in fact the idea of using powerpoint and slides is to provide an easier way of learning. The situation that students are having trouble might be the students are not able to decide what kind of information on the slides is important. So students should build a stronger ability of deciding what kind of information should be taken as notes.
According to the interview with <name> <name> he stated: "The single largest drawback is probably the increased instances of cheating, or perhaps more appropriately, the increased ability for students to cheat." Yes, it is kind of a big case here in education. But does education provide students chances to let them cheat? No, it is the person who chooses to cheat, not those technologies make them cheat. People cannot blame this onto the technologies. The technologies we are using in the classroom are important and cannot be ignored and replaced. Think about one day we could not use the technologies anymore. That would really bring us disadvantages and inconvenience.
Lambert, Craig. "Professor Video." Harvard Magazine. Harvard Magazine, Nov.-Dec. 2009.
Web. 02 Nov. 2014. <http://harvardmagazine.com/2009/11/new-media-transform-
college-classes>.
