12/3/2015 
Argumentative Essay 
Draft #3 
The Correlation Between Body Language and Mind 
Since there is a correlation between body language and mind, one's body language shapes who she/he is and similarly, one's thought portrays how she/he acts. As a result, although people want to hide their real thoughts by acting normally, for instance, it is impossible for them to tell flawless lies. However, some people still refuse to admit the existence of interrelation between body language and mind because they think gestures and thoughts are independent. After conducting researches on some literatures and an interview with <name>, I can now say confidently that there is definitely an correlation between body language and mind. 
First of all, the reflection of body languages on minds does exist. For example, if one wants to make up a story that s/he once worked in a large and influential company, there would be clues on body languages. When one was talking about the details, one's eyes would unintentionally look up and then turn right, which reveals what s/he was saying is a making-up lie. Furthermore, when individuals are being criticized, they would touch their neck, lower the heads and look down on the floor. Similarly, why does blushing, a kind of body language, happen? Cornelius L. Golightly mentioned in his article, "Mind-Body, Causation and Correlation" that blushing "should be explained solely in physiological terms" (226). Blushing may occur when one feels guilty and ashamed. In other words, feeling ashamed, the mental state, is antecedent to the blushing, the physical state because blood rushes to face. Moreover, mentioned by "Read my hips: Body Language Best Guide to Mind," Emily Underwood, a research was conducted and showed that people can read other's emotion by watching other's body language. In conclusion, these points all stand for that body languages manifest individuals' thought. 
Secondly, despite manifestation of minds on body languages, there are also evidences that body languages have impact on minds. Take models for instance, they seem to be charming and full of confidence while walking on the catwalk. I watched several shows and get confused why they all look so confident since it is impossible for all models born to be confident and charming. Then, I found that they raise their shoulders and open their bodies while walking and sometimes stand with their arms akimbo. Actually, these are all body languages that can make oneself to change the hormone state of testosterone and cortisone, which make one feel powerful and become confidence. During the interview with Professor <name>, she told me that, similarly, before talking in front of a group of people, one can make the speech better and filled with confidence by acting like he is confident. For example, one can raise hands to act strong or stand akimbo like a superhero for a while. In conclusion, obviously, body languages and minds are firmly connected together since body language can change one's thought. 
Thirdly, the interrelation between body language and mind appears both unconsciously and consciously. Firstly, I think everyone would confront a problem that is really hard to solve. Take myself as example, I would bite my lips unintentionally to reduce the pressure I suffer. Similarly, when George Walker Bush heard 9. 11 occurred, he bit his lips unconsciously well. The phenomenon occurred because he was under high pressure. This clarifies the correlation again which shows the influence of mind on body language. Secondly, "Body Language: Inside Out" by Sangeeta Shukla demonstrates that using "positive sentences and avoid negative words" intentionally can affect one's mind. In other words, one can be more confident and calm during the interview or the presentation since s/he used this psychological suggestion, self-talk. As a result, both unintentionally and intentionally, the mutual influence does exist. 
On the other hand, some people raises incredulity to the connection between body language and mind. First, they think individuals can separate minds and body gestures because they can hide their emotions, not showing out through body languages. For instance, if one is scared about taking final exam but she/he sees that everyone else in the classroom seem to be calm, she/he would try to hide her/his emotion of tension. It turns out that one can successfully hide her/his thought during the exam. However, according to my interview with Professor <name>, "although one can completely hide her/his thought, she/he would pay for it mentally." Moreover, the negative affect is larger than the positive one. Whether the exam result is better or worse, Professor <name> mentioned, one would be distracted during the exam or even get mentally exhausted after the exam. Since body gestures and minds connect to each other in any case, how can one say there is no interrelation between body language and mind? 
With all the literatures, interviews, and researches, I believe there is a correlation between body language and mind. I also want individuals to use the knowledge of the interrelation in either direction to make some differences in lives. Use positive gestures to motivate the mind, and use optimistic thought to improve the body talk. 
Work cited: 
Golightly, Cornelius L. "Mind-Body, Causation and Correlation." Philosophy of Science PHILOS SCI: 225. Vol. 19, No. 3 (Jul., 1952), P. 225-227 Print. 
Shukla, Sangeeta. "Body Language: Inside Out." IUP Journal of Soft Skills Vol. 3 (3/4) (2009): P.41-45. Print. 
Underwood, Emily. "Read my hips: body language best guide to mind." Sydney Morning Herald [Sydney, Australia] 6 Dec. 2012: 24. Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 12 Oct. 2015. P.1-2 
