Draft#3 Argumentative Essay 
04/24/2016 
Online Shopping 
Can you spend a day without browsing Facebook or Instagram? Can you choose not surfing on the Internet when you are free? Can you imagine your life without Internet? I believe most people's answer will be "NO." With the development of modern society, internet is becoming more and more popular among people in different ages and almost it has turned into one of people's necessities for life. People can do a lot of things on internet, like reading online books and watching online movies. However, today I am going to talk about another thing people can do by using internet-online shopping. Online shopping is an act of purchasing products or services directly from sellers over the Internet by using web browser. It has gradually come into a fashion in many cities. Then raised a concern that whether online shopping can benefit people or not. As far as I am concerned, online shopping is important because it is very convenient and people can buy the stuff they want by just browsing the company's website without walking around. 
First and foremost, the biggest advantage of online shopping is probably its convenience. Different from shopping in stores, there are no lines for people to wait in or shopping assistants to bother you, and people can do and finish their shopping in just a few minutes with only two steps: choosing the products and placing the order. Moreover, online shopping is really a good choice for people who are very busy because they are not restricted by the time and the place anymore. People can buy products at any time they wanted, for example during the break between their works and the time they have lunch, because as long as people have internet connection they are able to access the shopping website. According to the article "Consumers' attitude towards online shopping: Factors influencing employees of crazy domains to shop online" by Saad Akbar and Paul TJ James, convenience is the first reason that employee groups, who are always very busy, do online shopping. As for me, I am a student at Purdue University, which is in the suburb, and there is no large shopping mall around our school. So it is very convenient for me to shop online. 
Secondly, a convincing advantage of online shopping is that people are able to have a better price. The first reason for this is that people can easily browse through dozens of different website for the same kind of product. This can help them find to best price. Although people can also do the same at a mall, it would take a lot of time and maybe also a long walk. The second reason that cheap deals and better prices are available online is that products come to people are directly from the manufacturer or seller. There is no people in that middle who are always adding prices in order to get more profits being involved. Also, many online shoppers often offer discount for customers. Take my experience as an example, I went to the Tmall last Sunday and was attracted by a pair of sneaker, which was priced by 90 dollars. I really liked it, but I thought it was a little bit expensive. My friend then suggested me to find it on the Internet because she said that there is always cheaper price to shop online. As we expected, it was only priced by 84 dollars on the website and cost me 80 dollars finally after a discount. 
However, based on what <name>, a graduated student who I interviewed before, said, some people hold different opinions about online shopping. For consumers, the biggest problem is probably that there are always some differences between the real product and the product in picture on the website. In the past, most online shopping website did not have the service of free returning for customers. On the other hand, nowadays, online shopping system has improved a lot by including not only some other people's shopping experiences with the products they bought, but also their comments on the products. According to "Factors Influencing Generations Y Student's Attitudes towards Online Shopping" by K.M Makhitha, the second appealing factor for student to shop online is that the online shopping has provided easy access to information. As a result, it is easier for people to know the "reality" and help them to make decision whether the product is worth that price. Moreover, most online shopping system today have the policy of free changing and returning in nearby store, which can be very convenient for people. 
As a conclusion, in this fast developed society, there is a tendency for people using advanced technology to improve their life quality. And in order to get more convenience and benefits, people need to figure out how exactly this technology can contribute to society. I am glad that I am able to get know about this after reading some articles and interview the experts. 
Work Cited: 
Saad Akbar and Paul TJ James. Consumers' attitude towards online shopping: Factors influencing employees of crazy domains to shop online. Web. Feb. 2009. 
K.M Makhitha. Factors Influencing Generations Y Student's Attitudes towards Online Shopping. Web. Aug. 2003. 
2 
