Smartphones and Society 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
The intention of this essay is to investigate how smartphone's are impacting the society both socially and mentally and also how smartphone's are going to lead our population into addiction. This essay views different peer reviewed articled, studies and an interview to prove that smartphone dependence is a growing concern. This paper also looks at the positives of smartphones and shows that in the near future, negatives will outweigh the positives. In the end, the essay will summarize and conclude based on the various negative impacts that smartphones have had on society. 
Smartphones and Society 
"Email, instant messaging, and cell phones give us fabulous communication ability, but because we live and work in our own little worlds, that communication is totally disorganized" (Savant, V. M., 2013) which means that smartphones are actually deteriorating communication between people rather than aiding it. Smartphone over dependence is slowly but steadily becoming an immense problem and this could lead to a rapid decline in critical thinking and an increase of social awkwardness as well as a complete loss of face-to-face conversations. This paper studies the mental and social impacts that smartphones have had on people, looking at various published peer reviewed articles, studies and an interview conducted on smartphone addiction, gives possible solutions to avoid its overuse, and proves that the negative effects of smartphones substantially eclipses its positives. 
According to Suki, N. M. (2013), in an interview conducted among the students in a public university in Malaysia. It is shown that majority of people (90%) between the ages of twenty to twenty three own a smartphone. Even in an article by Salehan, M., & Negahban, A. (2013), it is stated that there is a large increase in the penetration rate (11%) of mobile phone users worldwide yearly. Both these articles prove that the number of smartphones sold are increasing continuously and the main users are teens. This shows that the amount of people who depend on smartphones are also slowly increasing but not at the rate mentioned above. So if smartphone consumption is not reduced the number of people who are addicted to their smartphones will become an unbelievably large number in the future. 
As the number of smartphones sold increases daily so does its personal usage by our general population. Oulasvirta et al. (2012) conducted various studies like longitudinal logging of smartphones that have shown us that smartphones are more accessible than laptops so they are more commonly overused and misused. Over usage of smartphones is leading to the formation of habits among teens like the checking habit, which is repetitive inspection of content accessible on someone's phone. Applications like Facebook, Twitter and You Tube which are social networking services (SNS) as mentioned by Salehan and Negahban are the main causes of smartphone over usage. These SNS are creating a mental pull on people which has led to them not being able to stay away from their smartphones for even a few minutes. As Salehan and Negahban stated "people install and use such mobile applications to satisfy their growing needs to connect and communicate with others. Higher communication needs will drive people to participate in the growing trend of use of mobile applications" (p. 2636). Research by Pearson, C., Hussain, Z. (2015) also proves that people cannot live with as much ease without their smartphones and that not owning a phone would have a negative impact on daily activities and relationships. These communication needs lead to people using their phones too much and thus lead to mental and physical problems. 
Many different authors have various articles and studies related to the problems mentioned above, which view the social and the mental difficulties that have arisen due to smartphone addiction. Drew, N., Voigt, C. O. (2014) look at the mental side of things, they have determined, through multiple experiments, the relationship between smartphones and worsening memory. It was found that the concentration of a person was affected with overuse of smartphones. A loss of concentration could lead to severe consequences that could cost some teens their school grades and possibly their future. Sateesh, V. (personal communication, November 3rd), an undergraduate multi-disciplinary research assistant in electrical and computer engineering (ECE), psychological science, computer science, and an expert on effects of smartphones in relationships, had said that people prefer to have conversations online through their phones via messages instead of going out and physically talking to people. These online conversations tend to be convenient as it require no emotional connection with the other person whatsoever. Both Sateesh and Pierce, T. (2009), who had conducted studies which investigated the role that social anxiety due to over use of smartphones played on how teens communicate with each other, agree that smartphones usage among teens is influencing the amount of time spent on smartphones and this usage acts as a complete substitute for face-to-face communication. Smartphone addiction is a growing problem and its usage must be reduced before it is too late or else in the future, people may become lost in their own digital worlds and may become completely oblivious to the environment and people around them. 
There has been a lot of discussion about the negative effects of smartphones but recent studies conducted by Jabbour, K. (2013), which looks at the impact of mobile technologies on Lebanese higher education classes in higher classes, and Soomro et al. (2013), which looks at how smartphones have positively impacted almost all aspects of human life which include business, education, and social life, show that smartphones are extremely useful when used in proportion daily. While the argument by Jabbour may be true even Soomro et al. agree that smartphones have negative aspects also but Soomro et al. states that "the benefits of smartphones are tremendous but the negative impacts are minor." This may be true now, but at the current rate of smartphone usage there is large probability that people will succumb to smartphone addiction thus causing major social problems which will in turn lead to a rapid decline in critical thinking and an increase of social awkwardness as well as a complete loss of face-to-face conversations as mentioned above. 
In conclusion, Smartphone are both equally good and equally bad but I believe in the near future the negative aspects of smartphones will completely eclipse the positives, so we should consider taking the required measures to avoid this from happening. I hope that people will start taking smartphone addiction seriously, not ignore the research that has been done and conduct further research to show that smartphone dependence is an ever-growing concern before it is too late. 
