	International Friendship: 
The Cultural Issues 
	International Friendship: 
The Culture Issues 
1. Introduction 
When making friends with people from different culture, sometimes it will be so hard to begin or maintain the friendship. The main reason for the hardness is the cultural differences. The culture is defined as the quality in a person or society that arises from a concern for what is regarded as excellent in arts, letters, manners, scholarly pursuits, etc. (Dictionary.com, 2014). For example, the different eating habits, the different dress and the different principles of proper and improper things to do. Those differences can be external or internal, but they all play an important role in making friends. Almost everyone thinks that the main reason for the lack of local friends should be the language barrier or the willing to communicate with the local students. At first, I held the same thought that I could easily make local friends if I had enough language skills and the willing to communicate with other. Unfortunately, I still had more Chinese friends than American friends. That's the moment I started to think there should be another reason lying behind the skills issues. The language skills or the willing to communicate with others do contribute to the friends making, but the cultural issues have greater effect. 
2. Cultural Facts 
The main reason for the differences between making local friends and Chinese friends cannot be the willing of making friends or the skills to communicate with others. As an international student, I was having trouble with making local friends. When I tried to talk to my American classmates, the conversation always started with the academic topic, such as "how is your exam?" or "have you done the homework? " For different people, the conversation with this kind of topic could not last long. After this topic I don't know how to keep the conversation, sometimes I continued to talk about several daily issues which were not that interesting to me. The only reason the conversation end in this way is that the local students and me have nothing to share together except for the study. If we have more topics to talk about, we can continue to chat. This topic has no relation with the language skills. I know that I am not a master of English, but I am pretty sure that my language skill can handle the daily talk with local students. In my home country China, I am an outgoing person and I am willing to meet new people and be friends with them. During my high school life, two third people of the whole grade knew me, and I even made friends with students from higher grades or lower grades. After coming to Purdue, I still tried to be outgoing and friendly to all the strangers that I have met. And I did make many good Chinese friends. My personality helped me making friends. But this situation changed when I tried the same thing with local friends. I use the same way to make friends with local students. I didn't work for most of the time. So the reason for the difference between making Chinese friends and local friends cannot be the willing of making friends or the skills to communicate with others. 
Then I started to research. I have interviewed several people to find what they thought about cross-cultural friendship. One of them was a leader from the MIX (Multinational Integration Xchange) program. This program helps the international freshmen to get more involved in the overseas environment by assigning international students into groups. Every group has a leader who introduces the campus to new students and shows them basic knowledge of the school. Through this program the students can communicate with other international students and get adapted into the new environment. In other words, the leader from this program is really good at making friends cross-culturally. The leader's name is <name> <name> from the chemical engineering apartment. <name> stated that "I would say if you are familiar with American culture such as famous books, TV shows, music, movies, it will not be very difficult to make friends with them. Also the language barrier is still there, but it is not the hardest one."(Personal communication, Nov 7th, 2014) He believed that the international students and the local students could become friends if they share the similar interests and have same topics to talk. He thought cultural issues seemed to be the most important facts that affected the cross-cultural friendship. The conclusion is that the international students should pay extra effort to understand the cultural issues. Not only having something to talk, but also the knowledge of this thing in English. Choosing one thing, then try to understand all of it in English. It will provide the international students with the similar knowledge with Americans. I began to agree that the international students should adapt to local culture in order to make local friends. 
I claim that the main reason for the differences also cannot be the language skills. If you are international students who do not have many local friends, you can try to remember the similar situation that having conversation with local students. The international students always have to share the academic topics. There is nothing wrong with this pattern, the international students have conversation and the chat makes us understand each other better. But the college students are teenagers! When teenagers make friends, are they talking about the study or the work for the whole time? Of course not! When the international students are with co-national friends, they are talking about entertainment, news, amusement or even funny jokes. Why the international students do not talk about those things? That is because they do not have any other topics to talk. The international students do not know what the games the local students play. The international students do not know the songs local students like. The international students do not know or are not interested in campus events. This knowledge is not needed in school, but this is a part of culture. If the international students do not know this culture, they will feel the same hardness with the international students who do not have local friends. Some international students also told me that they felt easier to make friends with elders. That's true. 
When talking with local old people, it's similar to talking with old people from the same culture. You do not need to share the current topics or hot topics with them. They enjoyed talking about daily issues, which you are good at. In this situation, the cultural constraint doesn't play a role. You can enjoy chatting with foreigners, although you language skill is rather poor. 
Many researchers support my argument. Chris, Edwin & Alfredo did research to find out the connection between cultural constraints and the development of the intercultural friendship. The research survey provides evidence for their hypothesis that the inter/intrapersonal leisure constraints will help students get more involved in the group of same region students. In the meantime, the constraints will also result in decreasing the interaction with the local students and doing harm to the adaptation to the school environment. And also, the students from non-European countries (especially Eastern/Southeastern Asia) can receive more constraints from their culture. The non-European students did make more friends from their own culture instead of stepping out and making new international friends. (p.104). 
Another article states that when making friends cross-culturally, there will always be culture elements. There are at least three layers: the external cultural forms, the norms and values and the worldview. The international students need to have cultural self-awareness then adapt to new culture and uprooting. (Birthe-Munck Fairwood, 2002, p.2) 
"Why Aren't Americans and International Students Becoming Friends?"(Jessica, 2014, p.2). The author of this article is trying to find out what makes the international students and American students stay away from each other. Through the author's point of view, she states that the international students and the local students seldom become friends. An interesting finding is that the international students think that the local students do not want to know about their international classmates while the Americans say that they make efforts to get to know the international students. In the local student's eyes, the international always stays in their circle and never want to get out from their comfort zone. In the meantime the international students feel it is hard to jump in a conversation among local students. 
It's should be useful to walk around the campus to find opportunity to make friends. Also, it will be better if not taking long distance trip during the first semester. Long trips can keep students away from the new friends they just make. "Does being an international student mean you have to be lonely?" (Heritage Student Foundation, 2013). This author is trying to convince the audience that it is easy for international students into the local community. International students should not be lonely if they just expose themselves to the surrounding and try as many chances as possible. 
3. Conclusion 
When making friends from different culture, the international students should never forget the impact of cultural issues. Although the language skills and the willing to communicate with local students are important, we have to adapt to the local culture. I also have some suggestions to the international students who want to make American friends. International students should pay effort to overcome those constraints. In the meanwhile, the local environment does not create "barriers" for international students to get involved. International students can always find their ways to experience new life style. There might be some students who do not want to make international friends, but the majority of communities are friendly and open-minded. International students just need to expose themselves to the American society and make trials. The most important things should be the culture differences. The international students could not make friends without having something to talk together. Not only having something to talk, but also the knowledge of this thing in English. Choosing one thing, then try to understand all of it in English. It will provide the international students with the similar knowledge with Americans. That can be one way to overcome the cultural issues. 
