The Indispensability of Traditional Meeting 
Lots of companies use virtual meeting to communicate within companies, however, I think online meeting cannot replace traditional meeting to enhance the connection between headquarters and subsidiaries of companies. Virtual meeting is a way that managers can have conference by the online program. The other way is the traditional meeting that managers hold conference in a specific location and talk face-to-face. Although online meeting has many advantages, the vital status of traditional meeting cannot be replaced. The utilization of traditional meeting can enhance the connection between headquarters and subsidiaries; moreover, meeting workers face-to-face can improve the employees' loyalty to companies, in addition, traditional meeting has better effect than online meeting. 
Traditional meeting plays an important role to strengthen the connection between headquarters and branch companies. According to Loppacher, Cagliano and Spina (2010), managers in headquarters send trustworthy auditors or executives to subsidiaries to check financial performance and conduct conference to listen to the reports. Auditors and Executives meet employees in person in subsidiaries can help managers in headquarters know the most reliable information of branch companies. In the face-to-face conference, employees in subsidiaries can talk more details about the performance of branch companies; also, subordinates in branch companies can ask any doubts to the executives or auditors from headquarters; moreover, executives can deliver the expectation from the managers in headquarters. If auditors find any data that need to be interpreted, a face-to-face meeting is the most effective way to ask questions and solve their confusion on time. However, if auditor did not visit subsidiaries instead of checking financial report online, they have no chance to ask question on time if they are confused with financial report. So tradition meeting can help auditors who visit subsidiaries to solve some specific problems efficiently. 
Meeting employees in person can improve workers' loyalty to companies. My interviewee <name> said that executives could encourage employees by the visit of branch companies. The encouragement of executives can motivate employees to work harder and promote the morale of workers. The more energy and endeavor that employees put into the company, the more loyalty they have to the company. In the traditional meeting, most employees have the chance to meet managers in person rather than communicate by inanimate computer. The living human own the attraction that abiotic technology can never have. The tedious working life of employees needs some thing to stimulate so that workers feel more comfortable to work. Also, if employees feel they are unable to finish some assignments and they doubt their working ability, they can schedule a traditional meeting to talk to managers about their difficulties. So managers can give more instructions about the mission and stimulate employees to make sure they do not lose the confidence. Workers' loyalty is essential for a company to develop better, and the traditional meeting can enhance the loyalty of employees, so managers must meet subordinates in person to encourage them and increase their morale. 
In recent years, many companies use virtual meeting to communicate within companies. Online meeting is convenient and can decrease the transportation and miscellaneous fees if sending executives or auditors to branch companies. Also, online meeting does not limit the location of meeting. Workers can have virtual meeting anytime and anywhere. For example, the head office of a company is in British, the company has three affiliates that are in different countries respectively, managers of each affiliates and the head office can use online meeting program to have conference without going to a particular location. Another advantage of online meeting is that it saves time and takes advantage of time efficiently. Some international companies have subsidiaries that are distant from headquarters, so auditors or executives waste much time to go to branch companies. If they use online meeting, they can use the time they go to subsidiaries to have virtual meeting in order to take advantage of time efficiently. However, the online meeting does not have such good results compare to traditional meeting. Although online meeting saves time, it cannot attain such good effect that traditional meeting have. Managers in headquarters can only get some superficial information of subsidiaries through online meeting, but they cannot gain specific information without meeting employees in person. If executives visit to subsidiaries, they have opportunity to conduct traditional meeting to many workers to gather more details about subsidiaries' condition so that they can expand their control scale of branch companies. 
In conclusion, traditional meeting is irreplaceable for managers to communicate and gain information from employees. Meeting employees in person cannot be replaced by online meeting since managers cannot attain their goal if they only use online meeting. However, only meeting subordinates in person is not an efficient way, companies can combine online meeting and traditional meeting to attain a better stage. 
