Communication: Best Way to Lessen Roommate Discord 
Never have human beings enjoyed such huge and great connection between each other by the innovation of computers and phones, and, most of all, Internet. Having a wonderful time chatting with friends with a highly advanced tool, people start to forget about their ability to solve conflicts among individuals in a mature way. One projection of this scenario occurs when people have roommates. Most people on this earth have had or still have roommates to live with for various reasons. Along with this popularity, there are problems. In my opinion, communication is the most effective way to solve the problems with roommates for following 3 reasons. 
My first reason is that communication is the primary method by which people obtain and exchange information. In this case, communication is the most important way to let roommates know how the individual thinks and feels. It is know to all, there are many differences between people with various cultural backgrounds. Without communication, people may not even realize that they are offending each other. The example from my friend can illustrate this point in a clearer way. In southern part of China, it is considered disrespectful or even inauspicious to put the your mirror in front of other people. My friend, from southern part of China, met an American roommate, who just put her mirror on the table, which accidently aimed to my friend all the time. Then my friend got really upset but she never brought this issue to the person involved. After my friend followed my suggestion of communicating with her roommates, it turned out that the American had no idea that this caused so much trouble to my friend. Then the mirror was put to another place in the end. To sum up, in order to construct a transparent and healthy relationship with one's roommates, one should always learn to communicate. 
Furthermore, in my own perspective, the absence of communication will eventually result in detrimental outcome, which means if there is an issue, we need to solve it before it goes too far. In April 2013, there was a murder in the Fudan University in China[1]. The crime was committed by a student who was constantly annoyed by his roommates' lifestyle and then a fight between them finally led to the murder. Furthermore, A 19-year-old student was charged with fatally stabbing her roommate, and the reason she committed such a crime was so na ve even ridiculous: she was unhappy about music volume playing from an i Pod of her roommate. 2 These are extreme examples caused by morbid psychology. In daily life, we can see a lot of people choose to move out and change roommates due to some grudge between people. These are all unhealthy way to deal with a roommates' disagreement. Neither should we just run away from it, nor should we take drastic action, what we really need to do is sit down and talk about the problems. 
Finally, there are other benefits when we successfully address a roommates' problem by communication and confrontation. "As we step in to society, we will run into people who are different than us and have disagreement with us. The skill of solving these problems need to be established and is valued by a lot of company. Plus, during the talking, we can really understand what the real problems are." Say from my Residence Assistant who I interviewed. Maybe the issues arise due to one person's perfunctory action or maybe it is more than one person's fault. The gist of talking is that, either way, people can learn and perfect themselves after realizing what they did was wrong. What's more, the correction among roommates makes people get progress and then great friendship may begin. 
Nevertheless, some people may argue that why we share a place with somebody while we can live by ourselves? Yes, we can, but at the same time we will lose countless benefit. Living with someone means one will perform better on their working and studying stage[3], for there will always be someone who motivates you and corrects your wrong behavior; living with someone means one can always get help on time; living with roommates means one can expand their social circle. Besides, one can also reduce the rent by living with someone else. Additionally, there are people who, on the contrary, hold the view that it is unnecessary to talk, since some people just cannot be talked sense into. In this case, some mediation may be needed. If you are a resident in a university or a school, Residence Assistant is a great option to ask for. If you rent an apartment, the landlord is a good option, but if the situation gets worse, you may need to call the media or even police. 
"Communication leads to community, that is, to understanding, intimacy and mutual valuing."[4] Only through communication and confrontation can people truly begin to know each other and then walk in others' shoes. If someone has the chance to live with roommates, I'd say: "go for it." If there were conflicts between them, I'd say: "that's even better." Because this is the chance of people getting progress and making friendship. To summarize, there is no better way than communication to solve roommates' problems, since communication is the essential way for people to get to know each other; communication can prevent some tragedy happening if it's used on time; communication may start a new friendship. So I suggest here that we all learn to talk to each other more and build a better world. 
Work cited 
[1]China SMACK Retrieved Nov 24, 2014 from http://www.chinasmack.com/2013/stories/chinese-university-student-poisoned-to-death-by-roommate.html 
[2]Bowie State Stabbing: Alexis Simpson Allegedly Killed Dominique Frazier After Fight About i Pod, By Eric Tucker. Retrieved Nov 24,2014 from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/09/16/bowie-state-stabbing-alex_n_966924.html 
[3] Clay, N. J. Interracial roommate relationships: A mechanism for promoting sense of belonging at university and academic performance. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology. 
[4] Brain Quote, Rollo May, Retrieved Nov 24, 2014 from http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/r/rollomay389414.html 
