Interaction: the Significant Constituent Part in Orchestra 
For many years, concert has been viewed as a very popular and troditional entertainment for people to enjoy their leisure time. While they enjoying the concert, people get emotional, physical and artistically relax. In addition, people are more concerning in a deeper level of the performance, how does the orchestra work. As you know, the orchestra is consisted of different parts of orchestral instrument group, such as strings woodwind and brass. Although they have different melodies and not play at the same time, the orchestra could also perform a harmonic sound. What people must to know is that a successful performance does need the individual's effort, but it more depends on the interaction or the cooperation in the whole orchestra. However, some people think that if the individuals can do their jobs well, the entire orchestra will play together. So individual versus interaction, this topic has become a very controversial argument. In my opinion, in order to successfully play a harmonic sound in orchestra, the violinist should interact with the conductor while they are playing the piece. Because when you know what the others doing, you can easily follow. 
First of all, it is obvious to tell that there is no orchestra that has no conductor. According to Professor King (conductor of Purdue orchestra)'s statement, orchestral performers must play their instrument well, which is the basic requirement, and they must know how to communicate with the conductor and adjust the playing style which is more important than just playing the right notes. So the interaction in this can be specifically called communication, including verbal and nonverbal communication like eye contact that was emphasized by Professor King as the most necessary part of communication. By the eye contact, performers can match their playing style with the others and the conductor's command, such as bow direction and note length. As long as the performers build up the communication (interaction) within the section or and the conductor, the cohesive sound can be constantly and bravely performed by the player. According to my and Miss Mu's performance experiences, we all can that it is the communication that keeps our playing in time with the other players. As far as I know above 98 percent of the violinist agree that the communication helps them improving their playing experiences. Additionally, the conductors have the ability of handing out the information that they interpreted from the full score which enable them to balance the overall sound effect. But if the performers have to receive this information they must "stare" at the conductor other than on the music at all the time, so that they would process the information immediately and adjust themselves. 
Secondly, we all know the strength of the teamwork that can bring us the maximized effect. As Sacrnati said in his article, 2+2 can be equal to 10. That shows that the teamwork can maximize each individual's strength and combines the strength together. But how does a team successful work? The answer is clearly to say, the interaction. As in a team, all the team members are aim at the same gold and they will support each other by the interaction (Scarnati 6), for instance, the energy of one beam of light is very weak, but if you point thousands of beams of light to one point, the energy will be huge, just like the laser. Then the orchestra can perfectly follow this theory. Every player has their strengths and weaknesses, but when they are gathered in an orchestra forming a team, the final goal is play the best sound to the audience. At this time, the players will realize what are the strengths and weaknesses of themselves and maximize their strengths and minimize the weaknesses. In order to do so, the interaction plays an essential role. The players must listen carefully to the other performers who are sitting around them and then analyze and adjust their playing; so all the performers can play together and support each other. 
However, some people would like to say that if every can play every thing correctly, while they are playing together, the harmonic sound would be automatically created. Theoretically it might work but actually nobody can play everything perfectly correct, even a master violinist who has been playing the violin for his whole life. And according to the different interpretations of the conductor to the music, the way the conductor wanting the performers to play would be various but not stable, which requires that you must interact with the conductor and the other performers to make the best sound. 
As far as you know the essence of the interaction, it is undeniable to demonstrate that if an orchestra wants to create a harmonic sound, the interaction is the indispensable part of performing. So when the next time you go to a concert, you will more enjoy the fabulous sound the orchestra created, because you already know why they can make this kind of sound. And it is the interaction that keeps the orchestra, an old and new traditional entertainment, developing till today. 
