Argumentative Paper, Draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Artificial Intelligence: how close are we to our future as slaves or as master of robots? 
Introduction 
	Artificial Intelligence is the term given to extremely smart machines/ computers that can perform multiple tasks as quickly as possible. The goal of anyone involved in this area of science is to make machines faster and better to reach the intelligence level of the human brain. There are multiple researches being done in this area by major companies and universities. Due to the complexity of AI, there are thousands of parts that AI is broken down to and being researched. While thinking about AI, several unanswered questions come to mind, such as how far away is that point of time when true AI is created and whether it will be a threat to us. These two questions have been the prime interest of my research which hopes to provide enough information to answer them. 
	When talking about technological advancements and achieving true AI many people have different opinions. I believe that we are not really close to real Artificial intelligence; it is still a long way ahead. Considering current progress in AI, it is far behind the human brain in large magnitudes; hence it will be a while till we get to that point. Talking about true AI being a threat to humanity, I believe that there is no such thing, which is contrary to popular belief due to stories people hear about AI from books and movies. A machine is designed/programmed to do (a) task(s) and will do nothing more. 
Dear Reader, 
	In this first draft of the Argumentative paper I wrote about Artificial intelligence, how close are we to it, and will it be a threat to us. This draft needs more improvement in terms of content. The main weakness of this draft is the word count and information level. In my next draft I shall make important changes to make it better. 
	If I had more time to write this draft, I would have done more research to get more information. Any feedback is appreciated. 
Sincerely, 
