Factors of Stress Based on Social Status 
	The debate on the factors of stress among the society have become a hot issue these days. As the world population is increasing day by day, the society becomes more competitive in many ways. For example, getting accepted into colleges for students, job opportunities among the working class group and many more. The scenario of the survival of fittest by Charles Darwin is applicable in this situation where the best of the best can only survive in this current competitive society. Thus, it is not surprising for the percentage of Americans that feel stress increases. Based on the American Psychological Association (2011), majority of the Americans are suffering from moderate to extreme stress, with around 44% of them reported that their stress levels have increased since 2006. In my opinion, I personally think that the factors of stress are different for everyone based on their social status as I have done massive amount of research on this specific topic which is stress. The sources contributing to a student, working class people and older people's stress are not similar as they have different social status. 
Before analyzing the sources of stress based on the social status, it is important to have a comprehensive understanding of stress. Stress is a very common physical response that everyone faces. In a more scientific explanation, the definition of stress is a stimulus reaction that will disturb one's physical including mental equilibrium. It is a physical response to any events that will make one feels threatened. Based on personal experience, I feel stressed when I experience changes in lifestyle, increased amount of workload, and during exam periods. 
Now that you have a brief concept stress, it is time to analyze the factors of stress. As stated above, the factors of stress are different for everyone based on their social status. There are a few factors that trigger a student's stress level. According to Ross, Niebling, and Heckert (2008), there are two main sources of stress for students, which are interpersonal and intrapersonal. Examples of interpersonal are sleeping habits, vacations, eating habits, increased workload and responsibilities and examples of intrapersonal are worrying about college debts. Based on Rizwan, Alvi and Saeed (2010), students also tend to get stressed up due to the teachers' poor communication skills that includes their careless marking. However, according to my interviewee, Ying Loo who is an expert in my topic, stated based on her own personal experience, as she was also a college student previously, mentioned that the main source of stress among college students are exams and assignments. Time management is also one of the trigger of stress. It is usually hard for any students to balance classes, exams, and club activities as college life is challenging. As a current college student, I personally feel that my source of stress is due to overload of assignment, exams and juggling with my club activities. It can be concluded that stress is unavoidable especially among college students. 
	The factors of stress among the working class group which are also known as the middle aged group are different compared to the college students group. According to Ying Loo, the factors that cause stress among this age group is usually due to work. For example, too much workload, low wages, office conflicts and long working hours. As she currently falls into this category, she mentioned about her own personal experience, her stress indeed comes from her work. She has long working hours and she has heavy workload due to insufficient workers at her working place. Based on Nomaguchi and Johnson (2014), some of those that falls into the working class group that have children tend to have parenting stress. This is because they have to financially support their families. Thus, some of them have long working hours and have multiple jobs at a time to support their families financially. These contributes to their increment of stress levels. 
	The sources of stress among the elderly are obviously different after knowing that the sources of stress among the college students and working class groups are different. Based on Freeborn (2015), for older adults, the main source of stress comes from chronic illness, disability or the loss of a spouse. Financial problems, family problems and the changing of living situation may be the factors of stress for the elderly too. Based on Medicine Online (2015), those elderly who are still working feel stress as they need to compete with the younger coworkers. The article also states that elderly moving into a nursing home is one of the source of stress. This is due to inability to keep personal belongings, losing control over daily life and also feel abandoned by the family. Similarly to Freeborn (2015), this article also states that the main source of stress among the elderly is losing his or her spouse. This is because loss of a spouse is equivalent of losing companionship and security. Ying Loo also mentioned the similar cause of stress among the elderly. She said that the cause of stress among them is due to the death of their loved ones and chronic diseases. 
	After obtaining massive amount of information from variety of sources, it can be concluded that it is indeed true that the factors of stress are based on a person's social status in the society. It is proven that the main three social status group which are the students, working class and the elderly have different sources of stress. The source of stress of students are usually due to education, working class are due to work and the elderly are due to the changing of living situation. After knowing the factors of stress, it is time to learn the strategies to cope with stress as stress is harmful to one's body and mind. Stress is a serious issue and needs to be managed properly before it is too late. 
Bibliography 
Stress and the elderly - stress and seniors. (2015). Medicine Online. Retrieved from http://www.medicineonline.com/articles/s/2/Stress-and-the-Elderly/Stress-and-Seniors.html 
Clay, R. A. (2011). Stressed in America. American Psychological Association, 42(1), 60. Retrieved from http://www.apa.org/monitor/2011/01/stressed-america.aspx 
Freeborn, D. (2015). Stress and older adults. University of Rochester Medical Center. Retrieved from http://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx? Content Type ID=1&Content ID=4530 
Nomaguchi, K., & Johnson, W. (2014). Parenting stress among low-income and working-class fathers: The role of employment. Journal of Family Issues, 1(23), doi: 10.1177/0192513X14560642 
Rizwan, A., Alvi, M. S. I., & Saeed, M. (2010). Analysis of factors affecting the stress level of engineering students. Tempus Publications, 26(3), 681-686. Retrieved from https://www.academia.edu/7566273/Analysis_of_Factors_Affecting_the_Stress_Level_of_Engineering_Students 
Ross, S. E., Niebling, B. C., & Heckert, T. M. (2008). Sources of stress among college students. College Student Journal, 33(2), 312. Retrieved from https://www.rose-hulman.edu/Student Affairs/ra/files/CLSK/PDF/Section Two Instructor Resources/Sources of Stress Among College Students.pdf 
