\ 
Campus Work is Beneficial for College Student 
Campus Work is Beneficial for College Student 
		" I absolutely love working on campus!" Hou, one of my interviewees who are currently working for Purdue University, said this during a interview meeting with me. In recent years, number of students who are employees of their colleges had increased significantly. According to National Center for Educational Statistics, 79% of undergraduates worked during 2007-2008 while they were enrolled. Students may chose to work for different personal reasons such as to offset the high cost of tuition, or it could just be plain desires to work. However, as campus working became prevalent among college students, whether or not it is beneficial for students to work for their colleges was the question to ask. After interviewing two student employees from Purdue University and read through five articles of relevant topics, I found out that although working on campus have its disadvantages, the behoof of applying for job on campus was greater for working on campus was more flexible on student's schedules, could expand student's social circles, and could arm students with professional skills for their future careers. 
		Campus job usually have multiple and flexible working shifts for student employees in order to avoid interfering with their class schedules. Most colleges understand the top priority of student is study and grade, so they would try to design or find working shifts that fit their student worker's schedules as much as possible. The article, Should My College Student Look For a On-Campus Job or Off Campus, mentioned the colleges know the obligations and concerns of their student employees, so they would excuse their student employees from missing works because of preparing for tests or having to complete group projects for classes. Besides, most job that are available to students on campus are normally closed during school breaks or holidays, which fit students schedule perfectly unlike off-campus job may ask their employees to keep working during certain holiday times (p.5). What's more, students who work on campus are easier to find a substitute for his/her work shift than those who work off campus due to the larger base number of students who work on campus (p.7). Therefore, students who work on campus would have a more flexible schedule. 
		Students are likely to meet more people thus expanding their social circles during campus work. Because student work with other students from all over campus and all kinds of majors, he/she would have plenty chances to meet new people and make friends with them. My interviewee Hou and Le both told me that through work, they met many amazing peoples and became friends with them. They both argued that if not working together, they would never meet these amazing individuals in their daily life. Moreover, Lucier (2012) stated that working on campus is an excellent way to increase student worker's sense of belonging. That is to say, working in an institution with other students and staffs are likely to make students employees to feel they are parts of the big family (p.4). "Not only through my coworkers but just the customers themselves remembering my face and acknowledging me on campus." said Kyra Bannister, a junior at the University of Oregon (Lucier 2012, p.5). In this case, student workers could expand their social circles not only within their workmates but also among their customers. 
		Working on campus is likely to bring students the gift of professional skills. While working on campus, students are trained with communication skills, team-working skills, time managing skills and customer service skills (Lucier 2012, p.8). For example, my interviewee Hou told me a story about him when he first worked at Purdue Earhart Dinning Court. Because Hou is an international student, he could not communicate with others really well. So Hou expressed his concern to the coordinator and the coordinator decided to train him by putting him into the stirring fry section. The stirring fry section is the place customers order their fried meat so Hou had to communicate with both customers and his co-workers consistently. By working there, Hou's English speaking skill improved significantly and he said he had no fear of communicating with American workmates in his future jobs. Moreover, My other interviewee Le argued that team-working skills are essential for student employees because no company nowadays would hire a person who does not know how to cooperate with others. He stated that being a teaching assistant at Purdue taught him how to work with other TAs and the professors together to teach a class and he felt this skill was a treasure to him. In addition, Palmer and Bray (2008) also mentioned that working on campus would give students great advantages in competing with other candidates in applying for a job in the future. 
		In brief, working on campus is definitely beneficial for students on multiple aspects. Campus jobs are more suitable for student's academic schedule than other works; student workers would have many opportunities to meet new friends at work and thus enlarging their social life; most importantly, campus work is a preparation for college students who are about to step in to the real world because it arms students with professional technique and skills that are invaluable for students. Granted, campus job does have its disadvantages and inconvenience such as fairly low salary and mostly declined academic grades (Reynolds 2014). However, these problems can be fixed because the wage of students payment have the potential to grow through promotion (Megan 2014) and if students learn how to balance their study time and work time, their grades would stop declining. Laura Perna, a professor of the University of Pennsylvania's Graduate School of Education actually found out that students who work 10-15 hours per week are more persistent to pursue their academic success than those who do not as she said, " Students who work a modest number of hours per week (10-15 hours), on campus, are more likely than other students-even students who do not work at all-to persist and earn degrees ( Lucier 2012, p.3). 
Reference: 
1. Megan, H(2014, Sep 30). Minimum-wage student workers crucial to OU's functionality. The Post, p.1,2,5. Retrieved November 1 from http://www.thepostathens.com/news/article_839f6c30-4826-11e4-91ae-0017a43b2370.html 
2. Palmer, S,& Bray, S. (2008). What is the on-campus experience? Engineering student study and work. Tempus publication, 24, 802-810. Retrieved November 1 from http://www.thesunflower.com/opinion/article_c1e50240-6048-11e4-8d8e-0017a43b2370.html 
3. Reynolds, S(2014, Oct 30). Working on campus not enough to pay bills. The sunflower, p.4. Retrieved November 1 from http://www.ijee.ie/latestissues/Vol24-4/s17_IJEE1844.pdf 
CAMPUS WORK IS BENEFICIAL FOR COLLEGE STUDENT	 3 
Running Head: CAMPUS WORK IS BENEFICIAL FOR COLLEGE STUDENT 	1 
