Communicative Obstacle Between Chinese Students and Domestic Students 
In recent years, U.S. appeals thousands of Chinese students due to its high quality of college education. However, almost all of Chinese students face communicative obstacle when they are studying or living in America. The critical situation raises the questions that how can we deal with the communicative obstacle and establish the bridge between Chinese students and American. I believe that Chinese students have many difficulties because of the obstacle and colleges and Chinese students should do effort together. 
First of all, Chinese students cannot do well on their study because of communicative obstacle. The rate of Chinese students who can graduate in four years is lower than the average rate. Many Chinese students cannot understand the class contents and don't have the ability to do their homework independently because of the language obstacle. The first month I came to America I totally have no idea about what professor told and I really have difficulties to do my homework. Many of my friends have similar experiences with me and some of them even have nightmare about their tomorrow's class: My friend called me one day night and cried. She dreamed she entered a classroom and she couldn't answer the questions professor offered and classmates laughed at her. Chinese students are a group which very care about their grades and always want to get A; if not, they will thin themselves are not good students. So we can see that language barriers really let Chinese students feel struggle. For these things we can see that Chinese students have to improve their English as soon as possible. 
Moreover, Chinese students know few social knowledge or events which let them looked lonely and weird. When American students talk about football or a superstar, Chinese students can only smile without talk with them. Obviously, Chinese students don't have the strong hope to do like American young persons. Chinese students still only concentrate on Chinese news even though they are living in America now. However, I do a survey about other international students who not come from China. One of them is a French, Ryan. He knows many America general history and America famous hero. In addition, he likes to watch American TV program and the most favorite magazine is Travel. From these stuffs, he can make many interesting topics with Americans and certainly, he has lots of domestic friends. 
Moreover, communicative obstacle let Chinese students become fragile when they face big problems in their life. They do not have some local friends who can give them help advice or help them in time. All the difficulties and unhappiness they have to deal with themselves. Few Chinese students choose to suicide because of stressful. In addition, Chinese students always feel sham to share their sad stories with others or find help for college. I have interviewed a specialist in IPO, Mrs. <name> , who told me that she doesn't know what should she do to help these Chinese students. She cannot know what things happen to these students. 
However, some people may hold different opinion with me. They state that Chinese students can make friends with each other and an America friend is not so necessary. Also they believe that Chinese students should not Change their characristics liberately to do like Americans. But they forget one important thing that is Chinese students are in America. They should performance as good as America on study; they need have fun with friends and many of them want to share their own experiences with friends. If they only stay with Chinese, they cannot find the happiness which stay with domestic students or other international students. All of these can be carriers for them to live or study happy. 
In a nutshell, communicative obstacle can cause big problems to Chinese students when they are studying and living in America. As international students, Chinese students should try to overcome the difficulties and ask for help for the colleges or universities. Actively participate in2 the program that the college offered to international students. As long as we pay effort and willing to be a member of the whole community, the communicative obstacle will not bother us too long time. 
