Argumentative Essay 1st Draft 
March 29th, 2016 
	Purpose of Games 
Nowadays, game industry is one of the major industries in the world. As game industry becomes one of the major industries, it spreads to other fields, even to educational fields. Conventional wisdom says that games are made only for entertainments, not for other fields like education; however, I believe that the main purpose of games is indisputably entertainment, but because games can be used in other fields, it can be even used in education. Based on features of games, educational game gives people motivation, and be active. Even developers study while developing games. 
Educational game gives students motivation to study. Education game gets attention because it helps students to get effective skills that students will need throughout their academic and professional years during the current information age. In the experiment of Mc Donald and Hannafin, they found that there was no difference between score of the students who studied with normal books and students who studied by gaming (Watson, 2009). So, they decided that benefits to play game in education is helping students to have motivation to study (Watson, 2009). Also, in other experiments, researchers discovered that game helps students to have an interest on studying (Watson, 2009). For example, after students played the game, 'Civilization III', to study history, they somewhat remembered vocabulary and time sequence of historical events (Watson, 2009). It indicates that students have an interest on studying by playing game. Also, there is another experiment, researchers have a group of students who have negative attitudes, such as bad grades, on science and math (Emin, 2013). However, after researchers make them to play educational game in classroom, their interest on math and science grow up naturally (Emin, 2013). These experiments indicate that educational game helps students to have interest to study, which make students to study voluntarily. 
Not only educational game gives students motivation but also makes class more active by spread attention from teacher. To collect data of game in education, researchers made four groups of students and teachers. They video recorded the process of gameplay, interview and quiz, and essays. And researchers analyze the effect of game in education based on these resources. Before students use game in class, which means normal class, though teacher tries to get attention by giving students compare with common sense, such as football player to strong country, some students cannot pay attention (Watson, 2009). Also, as time goes on, most of students lose their attention on class (Watson, 2009). However, after researchers make students to play strategy game in class, atmosphere of class was changed (Watson, 2009). All the students pay attention and discuss more actively in class. Teacher is not the center of attention anymore. Students share what is going on there and discuss what strategy they will use. At the class end quiz, most student got right answer (Watson, 2009). Even though class is ended, students still give interest on that class. Game gets interest from students which make them eager on study. This experiment illustrates that, by educational game, students discuss and focus on topic both in and out of classroom actively rather than passively listen teacher's lecture in classroom. 
