5 December 2015 
College Students Choosing Majors: Personal Interest Is More 
Important Than Careers 
	Our history has proven that college education could significantly change people's life in multiple dimensions. Besides, it also could determine a person's career development, which makes the choice of majors to be even more complicated. When I look back what I have gone through in my college life so far, I realize that I was just doing what I feel like to do, or simply because of interest. Even when I was in the program of Exploratory Study, I was quite skeptical about what I was doing. Sometimes I asked myself "Is this how I determine my major or even my career?" Through a half semester of Exploratory Study at Purdue, it's found out that the best motivation for doing something is "interest", which is the essence of motivation. It brings us a satisfaction that cannot be replaced by other factors. Although many people are pursuing higher education for the economic benefit of a career, the financial payoff should not be primary factor for students choosing majors. In contrast, personal interest and development should be the dominate considerations when choosing majors for college students. 
	The American Colloquialism saying that "experience is the best teacher". However, in terms of choosing majors I believe that "interest is the best teacher". With interest in certain areas, students could persist in what they are studying and deeply develop themselves in their subject of study. For example, at age of 9, my parents let me play saxophone and wanted me to play for competition. However, I had no interest in that. So I hate playing it and I got to be very defensive when I was practicing. After they forced me to play for a year, it came to be clear that this is waste of time and money for me. Therefore, I quit playing it, because I was not interested in that at all. Interest plays a critical role in a person's development, and forcing students to study something that they do not have interest usually will not have the expected result. 
	Without interest in the major they are pursuing, students may perform poorly on the academic study and eventually result in changing majors and drop out of college. In my perspective, a primary factor for such a high rate of changing majors is because students did not have a clear self-position at the beginning. Over 60 percent of students in college change their subject of study at least once (Simon "Major Decisions"). In a paper called How do young people choose college majors, said "the opportunities to change majors can not be ignored" (Claude). For many students, especially the freshmen, they are new to the college environment, courses and majors. Students may find many interesting areas that they didn't know exist before they come to college (<name>). According to Purdue Center for Career Opportunities that "up to 80 percent of students who entering college that they are uncertain about what they want to major in." (Purdue CCO). In my perspective, a primary factor for such a high rate of changing majors is because students did not have a clear self-position at the beginning. The consequence of unclear goal and interest may become worse as time build on, such as delay of graduation. 
	Now day, most colleges give students' freedom of choosing their courses. Because of the interruption of changing majors, students' study of plan could be very different. With the help from <name>, <position>, I had the chance to interview with her and discuses the current academic advising situation from a professional point of view. It was surprise for me that "changing majors or uncertain of majors too long could eventually result in delay of graduation for students" (<name>). So it's always better to have a good self-position and understanding of interest at first place. 
	However, the focus of economic benefits when choosing a major can be misleading to many students. Those majors may not be their interest or a suitable major for students. Oftentimes, when students are making decision on majors, they would be attracted by the potential payoff or salaries of a related majors. For long time, it has been believed that getting higher education means better opportunities, careers and salaries. Although the college education is still quite expensive, its payoff is much more attractive for many people. It's true that the economic benefit of college education could be valued as a reason for students to be more educated. When students are looking at the average potential salaries of a major, the information and data might be too specific, which lead it to be unreliable and misleading. "But we still need to be careful about the averages. For example, about the business major, which vary from $43,000 to $98,000 annually" (Romero). In a research of "a content analysis of 200 corporate job descriptions", until fall 2009 there were about "140 specific license/certification/skills commonly cited" as required for candidates applying for business. From this point of view, it can be concluded that because of variety careers and jobs for different majors, sometimes the potential average salaries will not have significant meanings. Therefore, the average will not be a reliable way of measurement for choosing a major. 
	On the other hand, professional schools or departments sometimes drag students' too much attentions on the potential average salaries, which could be misunderstand and misleading to students. Because my personal experience when attending profession schools' presentations. Usually at the end of a presentation for a major or program, there will be slid at the end shows students potential salaries, even sometimes they will provide some analysis about the data. This action seems to attract more students into certain majors, but it will hurt students and the departments in a long term. While students are imaging about their post-graduate life and careers, they might have forgotten about the course difficulties and personal interest for this major. Without thinking those factors, students will be more likely dropping majors or changing plan of study. Although it is hard to find majors that both fit students' interests and careers, students should first consider interest rather than careers. Many students might have worried about finding jobs within their major after graduation. In order to avoid the concern for careers, they trend to choose the majors that were generally popular on the job market, even it's might not be their interest. However, according an article on the Washington Post, that only about 30 percent of college grads had a job that was closely related to their major (Plumer). Therefore, it's fine that your major might not related so close with what you want for careers. Even students get into the high payoff careers, many years later they might find out "this job is not what I am interested at all, and they might rather do something else (<name>)". With personal interest in certain areas, many career opportunities could be found. 
	Students at Purdue could fully utilize the resource and advisor faculties to develop their interest for majors and career opportunities. Every department of professional schools hold walk-in hours to answer students' questions, concerns and needs. As <name> said in the interview, "The help is always here for students." There also is an explicitly program for those who might not have a clear division for majors, the Exploratory Study program at Purdue allow students to have 2 years as "undecided" students and fully explore the various majors offering at Purdue. Its advantage and benefits could be seen clear that the program will give students flexible time to taking some professional courses to required major and let students have better understanding for what they would study for in their majors. But the responsibility of keeping students themselves on the right track mostly fall on students, which might result the possibility in delay of graduation to students. For students who are interested in Engineering majors, the FYE (First-year Engineering) program will be the opportunities to explore the Engineering schools at Purdue. There are 9 required courses in FYE program, which will be accepted to every Engineering professional school at Purdue. Students would not worry about the delay of graduation. (<name>). During the two main course of FYE, there will be different professional schools come and present about their schools' opportunities and information for the majors. 
	Over all, the responsibility of pursuing a degree belongs to student self. Choosing a major should be a rational process with considerations from different degrees. Being too focused on the potential payoff of the careers might bring student into a wrong direction. In the long term, college is not only a place that provides students professional education and skills, but also leads students develop their interest and personalities. To better understand the subject of study, students should first position themselves clearly in the major. It's students' duty to pursue their degree in colleges, and it's not wrong to change major. But the risk and consequence would also come with it. Purdue has been trying to make students' required courses more flexible and dynamic. The advising teams and programs are all ways here to help students achieve success. Hopefully, students will not only get their idea careers, but also with interest into their jobs. 
Works Cite 
David, Fred R., Meredith E. David, and Forest R. David. "What Are Business Schools Doing for 	Business Today?" Business Horizons (2011): 51-62. Print. 
Dill, Kathryn. "The Bachelor's Degrees With The Highest Salary Potential." Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 27 Aug. 2015. Web. 17 Sept. 2015. 
Lappel, Karen. The Impact of Major on College Persistence among Freshmen. Chester: Kluwer Academic, 2001. 327. Print. 
Montmarquette, Claude, Kathy Cannings, and Sophie Mahseredjian. "How Do Young People 	Choose College Majors?" Economics of Education Review 21. 6 (2001): 543-56. Print. 
Plumer, Brad. "Only 27 Percent of College Grads Have a Job Related to Their Major." 	Washington Post. The Washington Post, 1 May 2013. Web. 15 Nov. 2015. 
Romero, Aldemaro. "Considerations Are Many When Choosing a Major." The Edwardsville Intelligencer. 14 Sept. 2015. Web. 17 Sept. 2015 
Shatkin, Laurence. "Review College Majors and Related Careers." Panicked Student's Guide to Choosing a College Major How to Confidently Pick Your Ideal Path. 1st ed. Indianapolis: JIST Works, 2011. 81. Print. 
