Chinese People Should Stop Illegal Downloading 
With the development of society and technology, downloading online becomes a new and convenient way to get the resources, such as music, books, and games. In China, downloading is familiar for most of people since it takes place in their life everyday. According to my observation, most of downloading behaviors in China are illegal. Chinese people always seek to download free resources without thinking about whether these resources are legal or illegal. Recently, a controversial topic about this phenomenon has arisen among a wide public. Some people point out that Chinese people should stop illegal downloading as soon as possible, while others hold the opposite viewpoint that Chinese people need not stop it. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the former for the following reasons. 
1. Illegal Downloading Is Not in Accordance with Relevant Laws 
From the juristical perspective, Chinese government do not allow people to download illegal sources, or share these sources on the Internet ("the Copyright Law of China", 2010). In addition, the websites, like P2P websites, which provide illegal sources are also illegal. The owners of these websites should delete these illegal materials, and compensate the creators of these sources. 
A good evidence which shows the determination of Chinese government is that the Chinese authorities has cracked down video P2P websites which offer illegal free downloading videos since the second half of 2013 ("Top 10 Cases of Piracy and Illegal Downloading in 2013", 2014). The most representative law case is that two famous video P2P websites, Qvod Player ( ) and BDHD ( ), were investigated, sued and punished by the National Copyright Administration of the People's Republic of China at the beginning of this anti-illegal-downloading campaign. According to the Copyright Law of China and the regulations for the implementation of the Copyright Law, these two websites should delete all infringed video sources, and were fined 250,000 RMB respectively. 
2. Illegal Downloading Threatens Internet Security 
Illegal downloading threatens Internet Security since some illegal materials on the Internet might include some computer virus and trojan virus. As mentioned by Mr. Qiu, an expert dealing with illegal downloading lawsuits, who I interviewed on 31th October, once people download the materials with viruses, their computers might crash down, and the leakage of personal information might occur as the infected computers can be controlled by crackers (Qiu. G., personal communication, October 12, 2014 ). 
To take my personal experience as an example, when I was in China two years ago, I wanted to download a movie called "The Avengers" since I really like the leading actor, Robert Downey Jr., and I missed the time when this movie was on. My friend told me a website where I could download it without any payment. After downloading it, I had assumed I would enjoy the movie. However, when I opened the file, I found that my laptop was out of control with numerous webpages popping out continuously. When I clicked my mouse, it did not work at all. Finally, the computer went down, and I could never switch it on. I was very anxious because there were a lot of important learning materials and photos which did not have any backup copies so that I took my laptop to a computer technician in a hurry in order to restore the data in my laptop. Nevertheless, the computer technician told me that my laptop turned out to be disaster because of virus, and all the data were gone without any chances of restoration. 
3. Illegal Download Is Harmful for Originality and Creativity. 
It is not a secret that originality and creativity are the imperatives for every industry in the society. However, illegal downloading impedes industries in this respect. As explained by Mr. Qiu in my previous interview, the creators and owners of the art works are disappointed and demotivated since they cannot obtain the incomes derived from the sales of their art works due to illegal downloading (Qiu. G., personal communication, October 12, 2014 ). Therefore, the creators will produce fewer new works, which means originality and creativity will be hindered in this industry. 
Despite of the benefits of illegal downloading, for instance, helping creators transmit their work, I still deem that Chinese people should get rid of this behavior since illegal downloading is not in line with the law, and it poses threats to Internet security, and it harms originality and creativity in many industries. In order to eliminate illegal downloading in China, much work can be done from different perspectives in the future. For the Chinese government, it could employ companies or organizations to monitor the websites. In terms of society, media and some social campaigns can encourage people to download legally. As for individuals, every person should abide by the law that they do not download things from illegal sources. 
