Influence of International Trade 
	International trade is an exchange of goods and services among different countries. These goods and services are varied and may contain clothing, computer, food, and so on. Today, international trade relates to our lives very closely. Plenty of products and services we enjoy and use every single day are based on international trade. I am interested in its influence, especially positive sides. So I want to discuss its benefits for countries, companies and people. 
	Actually, International trade should develop with encouragement due to its plenty of benefits for us. Firstly, countries choose to engage in international trade grow more rapidly than countries that choose to lock their doors. During my interview, <name> explained this with an example of South Korea and North Korea. South Korea is very open and trades a lot. We can see it becomes a developed country and its products in any place around the world. However, North Korea chooses an opposite strategy and isolates itself. Sixty years ago they were in the same level in global economics, but today South Korea is much more developed than North Korea. As my professor said, "trade can make all parties better off." 
	Moreover, according to the research by Boudreaux (2013) at George Mason University, international trade could generate innovation and efficiency. Countries exchange goods and services through an international market. It means they can specialize in their best fields and do not have to produce everything. This can make productions become more efficient. For instance, some countries do not produce i Phone but they enjoy it by specialization of international trade. Apple provides the ideas of i Phone and uses cheap labor force from countries like China and India, who have a lot of labors, to produce i Phone. Then Apple sells it around the world through international market. This process relies a lot on international trade. International trade also stimulates the development of technology. A company needs to produce new goods and services to survive and maintain its competitive position in the huge global market. Otherwise, it will not be able to keep pace with other companies and lose markets. 
	In addition to what I mentioned above, international trade also makes our lives more convenient. In pace with improved living standard, lots of people are willing to purchase high-quality products. So overseas purchasing agents are popular on many websites and social network like We Chat, Weibo and so on. Taking my own experience as an example. I have been purchasing Japanese and Korean skincare products for several years since international trade appears gradually. My skin condition is not very good so I always choose skincare products very carefully. Unfortunately, most of Chinese skincare products are not very ideal, especially compare to other countries like Japan and Korea, which have some good brands for Asian girls. Since international trade becomes popularized, I can purchase them in my home country or in the United States directly. It is much more convenient than purchasing in Japan and Korea. I believe many of you may have the same experience with me. Now, you could realize that how convenience international trade brings to us. 
	However, there are always two sides of every coin. International trade is also of no exception. A decomposition analysis published by a researcher called Kukla (2008) supports international trade has negative impacts on the level of air pollution. When international trade happens, there are more transportations appear. Goods and services need to be transported from one country to another country. Ways of transportation like trains, ships and airplanes will produce a lot of air pollution. I think this is an important problem so I asked my professor about it during my interview. <name> does not think this is a disadvantage because it is avoidable if manufactures produce goods in a right and legal way. He said there was only one issue of international trade. Companies in countries like America gain a lot from international trade. Some data show that the wage of American workers is constant in recent 30 years. This means workers did not get much welfare from international trade. There should be a redistribution of benefits from international trade. 
	In conclusion, I believe the benefits of international trade far outweigh its limitations. It makes global become a super huge market. This market encourages more communications between countries with different cultures. It also closes the distance between people in different countries. During international trade, we could experience multi-culture. Thus, to know more about it and accept it is very good and important for us. I also expect more people, especially students, to learn more knowledge about international trade. This will bring more ideas and solutions to make international trade better in the future. 
