Argument Essay 
ENG 106I 
Draft 3 
Words: 1418 
There is no track to find when the world is divided into eastern and western. Indeed, the difference between the eastern and western world is more significant than people usually imagine, regarding to the culture, the society, and of course education. Education seems like a less important and inclusive topic comparing to culture and society, but it is much more than an industry or a career that produces labors and entrepreneurs. Education is heritage. All the signature culture and social facts are developed and carried on by education. The United States, center of western world since the World War II, and China, the center eastern world for thousands of years, have distinctive educational systems. Through my research, I have found the most critical differences between Chinese and American educational systems, and I want to argue that American education is more favorable to students than Chinese education, in terms of three perspectives: pressure of study, Independence of institutions and research, and regulation of education system. 
American student have less pressure than Chinese student in many aspects, such as upgrading pressure and freedom of study. Chinese upgrading system is very effective and fair, but on the other hand, it adds huge upgrading pressure to Chinese students. Each student has only one chance to take the examination in a year, and it is the only criteria for college admission. In contrast, the SAT allows students to take several times in a year, and it is only part of student's application package, which also includes GPA, extracurricular activities and leadership. However, for Chinese students, upgrading system has no consideration about GPA and leadership. In addition, due to huge population, extremely intense competition is strengthening the chain on Chinese students. The difference between upgrading system also causes American and Chinese students to have different level of freedom of study. According to an interview with <name>, both an exchange student between Chinese and American high school, and a transferring student from Chinese college to American college, he believes the most important aspect of American high school education is freedom. In Fairfield School, students only had classes for 5 hours on average from Monday to Friday, and they can choose the courses they are interested in, because none of the courses will be on the SAT exam, except math and English. In contrast, Chinese students have to choose to study as a "liberal-art" student, or a "science" student in high school, when they have insufficient knowledge about the world, and their interest. Both sides will have to face the college upgrading examination, which test on Chinese, Math, English, and three major fields of study, depending on "liberal-art" or "science", totally six courses. 
On the other hand, colleges in China are constrained by government. Both public and private schools in America are not required to follow orders from governments. Therefore, they can seek the balance between financial investments and enlarging admission volume. In addition, American education, especially private education is expensive for families. The successful business model of American universities allow them to independently operate, and the high cost of tuition add motivations for colleges to expand admission as much as they could get, because it will generate profit. The profit of education drags tons of private investment, and it created countless resources for students. Meanwhile, expensive tuition does not completely put the financial pressure on American students, who enjoy a lot of support from government and charity organizations. Government pays their tuition to the end of high school, and in-state students will enjoy huge discount at state universities. In the year of 2011, the U.S. government provided total in $146 billion financial support, including financial aid and student loan, to post secondary students. In the fall of 2012, the total student loans, which contained capital from financial institutes, non-profit lender, and government, reached $956 billion. (Aud et al., 2013) In contrast, although Chinese colleges are mostly government founded, students have to be self-sponsored. Chinese college presidents are government nominated, and therefore, Chinese education is basically controlled by government. The control of government causes educational researches in colleges to become less effective. According to Zhao (2008), researchers in China are more interested in international issues that have a greater influence on the educational reform and policy of their nation than the micro issues that rely more on research study and statistics. Even governors and politicians publish research reports depending on their personal experiences, which lacks empirical analysis and statistical supports. These researches are invaluable compared to American educational research published by college professors who develop researches with scientific methods. 
Some people believe that Chinese education is actually more successful than American education, because Chinese students always have better score than American student in exams, especially in math and science courses. Exam score is the main principle to value a student in China, due to the paramount power of upgrading exam score in China. Many Chinese students have to attend classes outside of school time in order to out-compete peer students in upgrading exams. According to Chen (2013), the fastest developing private education in China is vocational training (include class outside of regular school). However, China currently lacks industry standards for teacher certification training. The good or bad teachers are intermingled and the outcomes are mixed. This will cause more financial pressure for students, and they may not get expected result, due to the quality of teachers, not themselves. In fact, Chinese students just learn things for exam. After Chinese students diligently study for three years in high school, and they finally out-compete most of their peers and get into a good college, most of them are wasted and devastated. In addition, colleges in China try to copy the style of American college education, which have minimal requirement to attendance and regulations. These two reasons cause Chinese students to drop their own academic requirement from A to C, and lost passion in study. In contrast, American students, who have tried different fields of studies in high school, they are capable to seek pleasure from study. According to <name>, the most valuable time is the activity time from 3 pm to 5: 30 pm, this allow them to change their brains from working mode to leisure mode, and restore energy to put into the study next day. After American students finally secure their interest, and they start to pursue their academic excellence in college, due to the motivation from gradually increasing interest. 
	Due to the pressure from upgrading exam, Chinese education puts too much pressure on students when they are in high school. Students have to face pressure from exam, peers competition, and huge burden of study load. After they get into college, they already lost interest to learn more advanced knowledge and do research. In contrast, American education balances the study load on students before and after they get into college. Students can try to find their interest in high school by the picking courses on their free will. Meanwhile, they have enough extracurricular to have fun and take good rest, which will release the pressure from studying. After they get into college, they have more passion to study and research. Furthermore, the Independence of American education from government gives institutes to run in a profitable business mode, and provide excellent service to students. Meanwhile, government supports students financially to undertake some of the financial pressure caused by high tuition. In contrast, Chinese schools are controlled by government, because they are funded by government. As a result, their research lost the Independence, and becomes the tone of government. In conclusion, American education does more good to students than Chinese education for their future and it is more welcomed by students. 
Citation 
Aud, S., Wilkinson-Flicker, S., Kristapovich, P., Rathbun, A., Wang, X. & Zhang, J. (2013). The Condition of Education 2013. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION. NCES 2013-037. Page 135-179 
(p 136 blue, p 140 blue) 
Chen, L., Li, I., Zou, D. & Wang, A. (2013). Reflections on Education and Technological Development in China 2013. Deloitte. Page 1-10 
(p 4 red, p 4 graph 1, p 9 red) 
Zhao, Y., Zhang, G., Yang, W., Kirkland, D., Han, X., & Zhang, J. (2008). A comparative study of educational research in China and the United States. Asia Pacific Journal of Education. Vol. 28, No. 1. 
(p 14 blue, p 9 blue, p 15 blue) 
Boning An. (2015) An interview report 
Argument Essay 
