The Best Way To Control Feral Cat Problem 
	Feral cat population has become a serious problem nowadays. Feral cats not only hunt other species that causing ecosystem unstable, but also spread disease that can even influence human health by infecting domesticated cats. In order to solve feral cat issue to protect other endanger animals and human lives, couples of solutions have been considered: TNR program, TVHR program and killing method. In those three method, killing method seems to be the most effective one because it cuts down cat number instantly with low cost . At the same time, although killing method is the fastest and most efficient way to deal with this problem, considering the both efficiency and humanity, TVHR should be carried out rather than killing method. 
	For a long period, Trap, Neuter and Return, also called TNR program has been used to control feral cat number artificially. How ever, through out computer model, TNR will work only if over 57% feral cats are involved in TNR program, which is almost impossible because feral cats have a very large population in one colony. According to SPCA studies, the number of feral cats in the U.S is estimated to be in the tens of millions, and that is why TNR could not really work in long term.( Ernie Ward, Study Offers New Technique for Feral Cat Control). For example, in a neighborhood, feral cats are vigilant animal that can hide themselves easily once they feel threatened, they usually jump quickly into the shrubs when human are getting close to them. Moreover, cats are so clever that the trapping techniques will not work for long. That is why TNR program is unreliable. 
	Due to the ineffective TNR program, there is another point of view that suggests killing the feral cats instead of neutering them. Although killing method do have strong power reducing feral cat number, this method is strongly objected to by animal lovers who believe that it is so cruel and inhumane to other creature. Since the source of feral cat issue is people's abandonment of unaltered cats, how can we make up our own fault by massacring innocent creature? Therefore, in order to make ends meet both effect and humanity, TVHR is the best way to control feral cat problem. 
	Trap-Vasectomy-Hysterectomy-Release also called TVHR, can provide win-win situation for both human and cats. TVHR is a surgery, which will prohibit the sexual ability of male cats, however, leave their sex drive remain. Therefore, the male cat will still keep their innate ability to fight for female and territories. In this way, there will be less male cats required to be trapped and operated to control feral cat population problem. This is because when a male cat keeps it nature characteristics, it would not allow another male to enter its territories and impregnate the females in this area. What is more, when a vasectomied male cat, whose spermaduct was removed, copulate with a rutting female, the female cat will undergo a 45-day pseudo pregnancy, which means she will have little chance to reproduce. ( Ernie Ward, Study Offers New Technique for Feral Cat Control) Study though building computer model by veterinary Ward found that the TVHR program will make great influence on reducing feral cat population if only 35% male cats are captured and operated. Moreover, researchers drew conclusion from computer program that if 57% of the male cats are involved, the colony will be eliminated within 4,000 days. That is why TVHR is a high-efficient solution. 
	Killing method, just like how it named, is a simple and direct way to control feral cat population issue by trapping and killing them. Compared with the killing method, TVHR does not decrease the living population of feral cat cruelly. Far from killing cats to raise death rate, TVHR is committed to decrease the birthrate. Although both the killing method and TVHR method decrease the total population of feral cat in consequence, people against the former one because most of people and animal lovers believe it is too bloody and inhumane to an innocent species. In order to reconcile both morality and efficiency, TVHR is the best way to deal with feral cat issue.( Anthony E. La Croix) 
	According to the comparison of the three solution that have been mentioned above, TVHR is the best method to control feral cat population. However, none of them is a cure-all solution. People should stop abandoning their cats so that the number of feral cats can be decreased radically. Therefore, educating people and making them be aware of the harm that comes with the increasing number of feral cats is crucial. 
Citation: 
How spaying and neutering benefits pets' health and behavior. Meynier & Jim Stortz. Animal Health Foundation, n.d. Web. June 25th, 2012. 
Overview of Feral Cat Population Control. Anthony E. La Croix. Michigan State University College of Lwa. 2006. 
Study Offers New Technique for Feral Cat Control. Ernie Ward. Pet Health Network. May 5th, 2014 
