Pro Gaming: Still Not the Right Time 
Abstract 
Esports is a newly rising activity defined as a form of sports where players compete through electronic systems. A group of people called pro gamers start appearing in front of the screen and earn a considerable income. Looking at those gamers glorious moment on the game platform, people may wonder if this is an appropriate job worth pursuing this century. This paper discusses four reasons why people should not choose pro gamers as a career: difficult training stage, severe health issues, competitive pool, and scarce job positions. 
Still Not the Right Time: Pro Gamers 
	Ever since the first competitive game was released in the 1990s, gaming has always been an exciting activity among people in varied age groups and locations (Barwick, 2013, p. 1). Due to people's strong enthusiasm towards gaming, it is frequently asked whether training hard as a professional gamers could be considered as a career goal. The first time I saw this question, I was fascinated by how novel the idea was. If people are able to sustain their lives with considerable income from gaming, then, most people could choose not to go all the way through the tedious educational systems to college, but concentrate on what they loved. Yet, the more data is collected, the more impractical this idea seems to be. The choice of working as pro gamers is not wise as long as input and output of this job are not balanced. 
	The path towards becoming a pro gamer is tough and unproductive in the early training stage, which makes devoting time to games an unwise choice. Under the age of thirty, gamers are asked to train themselves hard enough and achieve results a few years before the age limit so that employers will recruit them (Savov, 2014, "Only The Twitchiest"). While, gamers practice in front of the screen for around eight hours per day, and then reflect and construct strategies, college students also are struggling in writing their final essays and calculating math or physics solutions; however, unlike college students who may look for part time jobs, gamers have to focus on game all day long with no opportunity to make income (Tassi, 2012, p. 1). If one tries to be a pro gamer for an easy meal, he or she must come to the wrong place since the cost of that glorious time in front of the computer screen is significant and irreversible. Most pro gamers are striving hard because they love combating and aim high in this competitive world (Marton ik, 2015, p. 210). 
Another fact that lowers the value of being an Esports player is that physical and mental issues caused by long screen time and highly concentrated practice are damages that cannot be reversed. The result of an experiment studying young children's behaviors influenced by violent game showed that "children who played violent video games on a regular basis were more aggressive than their peers who rarely or never played such games" (Brown, 2012, para. 3). Also, according to another experiment conducted by Dr. Matthews from Indiana University, a series of comparisons of the performances were made between two groups of adults, and it turned out that playing games reduced brain functions of participants'. Despite staying away from video games for a week, the influence did not disappear completely. Furthermore, dopamine, a hormone related to pleasure, is produced constantly while playing games. Researchers described that "the dopamine produced had the same effect as amphetamines or Ritalin injected into the blood stream" (para. 11). Regarding the health problem, long screen time and sitting time without a break cannot only cause eyestrain and aches but also cancers. Despite numerous ways of protecting bodies from above causes, such as eye drops, healthy diet, and gym (SARV007, 2013, p. 1), they can only slow down the devastating impacts instead of countering them. As a result, a pro gamer has to accept all those inevitable damages, which, in my opinion, is not worth at all. The income made is for improving life standard but not worsening. 
People currently considering career as a pro gamer should not be deluded by the growing size of Esports; the truth is, the pool is too competitive. Esports is developing at an unbelievable speed in consequence of media spread over the world (Grisham, 2015, p. 1). While more and more people joined in, the top prize of one game increased from less than one million to five million in 2014 (Savov, 2014, "Chinese Team"). However, this still does not change the fact that only top, not average Esport players can benefit from growing prizes. In a tournament, around two hundred teams are competing with each other and only sixteen teams can reach the final stage, where the prize is distributed among them according to their ranks; the cost of travel and housing are not paid by the tournament host either (<name>, personal communication, Oct. 21th, 2015). 
Admittedly, there are many ways to make money offered to pro gamers in addition to tournament games. For example, several job positions, like casters, observers, and analysts, are prepared for those who know the game better than anyone else (Barwick, 2013, p. 6). And livestreaming lets gamers find a way to earn money even if they do not strive for tournament prize (Gaudiosi, 2015, p. 1). But still, no matter how diverse they are, if they could not provide enough money (livestreaming) and there is no guarantee of getting a job from game companies, people cannot rely on them. During the interview with <name>, a current professional gamer playing "League of Legend", "Halo 2" and "Halo 3", he showed me a program called "434 Industry," which consists of several video game players who spend time in developing the game of their company. Although <name> has always been a talented player and has joined into top tier team, he still prefer earning an engineer degree in <place>: 
I know professional gaming will only last me so long, so I don't want to rely on that "what if I maybe can get a job in a gaming company" because what if I don't. Then I have nothing. I have no education. Then I have no way to get a job. And I have nothing left. 
For livestream, <name> also pointed out that the income heavily depends on how much people like the way you talk. There is a pool that people can donate money as much as they wish, but if you cannot attract a group of loyal audiences, you will suffer a hard time of maintaining the livestream. 
	In conclusion, gaming is not an appropriate job to rely on. From training to becoming an independent professional gamer, uncountable effort has to be paid, but there is no guarantee that you will definitely find a job. If you fail, you will only be left with a bunch of health problems. But this is solely for current situation where Esports players are not appropriately supported. If a systematic training process is established by some institutions, more companies start signing contracts with potential candidates, and people find a way to let players practice without harming their bodies, the prospects for this job would begin to catch up with its current popularity. Until then, prospective gamers should compare all the options carefully before stepping into professional gaming. 
Reference 
Barwick, S (2013, Sep. 10). The rise of e Sports: A fresh face for gaming entertainment. Gaming IQ. Retrieved from http://gamingindustryiq.com/2013/09/10/the-rise-of-esports-a-fresh-face-for-gaming-entertainment/ 
Brown, J. (2012, March 22). The harmful effects of too much video game playing. [Web log comment]. Retrieved from http://spaceforswashbuckling.blogspot.com/2012/03/harmful-effects-of-too-much-video-game.html 
Gaudiosi, J (August 11, 2015). ESports are huge on You Tube-even though most coverage isn't live. Fortune. Retrieved from: http://fortune.com/2015/08/11/youtube-esports/ 
Grisham, R. (2015, Oct. 14). Why e Sports are sweeping the world. Sporting News. Retrieved from http://www.sportingnews.com/sport/story/2015-10-14/esports-what-are-esports-explained-league-of-legends-dota-call-of-duty-video-games-tournament-championship. 
Marton ik, M (July 2015). E-Sports: Playing just for fun or playing to satisfy life goals? Computers in Human Behavior, Vol.48, pp.208-211. doi: 10.1016/j.chb.2015.01. 056 
SARV007 (2013, Feb. 20). Health issues faced by Gamers. [Web log comment]. Retrieved from http://www.techpaparazzi.com/gamers-health-issues/ 
Savov, V. (2014). Inside the life of a pro gamer. Verge. Retrieved from http://www.theverge.com/2014/7/21/5919973/inside-the-life-of-a-pro-gamer#comments 
Tassi, P. (2012, March 30). The 10 steps to becoming a pro gamer. Forbes-Tech, 2. Retrieved from http://www.forbes.com/sites/insertcoin/2012/03/30/the-10-steps-to-becoming-a-pro-gamer/ 
PRO GAMING: STILL NOT THE RIGHT TIME	 2 
Running head: PRO GAMING: STILL NOT THE RIGHT TIME	1 
