Argumentative Essay - Draft 1 
April 13, 2015 
1,486 words 
Nationalism: its Representation and Relationship with Soccer 
Introduction 
"Nationalism is not a homogeneous phenomenon but rather arises in strikingly different manifestations, with divergent motivations and consequences" (Nelson, 2007). And, because nationalism is not an evident aspect present throughout history and today's society, this paper attempts to analyze it through something closer to our reality: sports - in this case, soccer. Additionally, because socialism is such a complex term, it is important for us to know how historians see this concept. Sir Benedict Anderson, in his book "Imagined Communities (1991)" points out that nationalism is the sense of belonging to this "imagined community", which is created throughout aspects such as common language, beliefs and symbols. These aspects are common to most nations, organizations and groups of people all throughout the globe. Therefore, in order to better analyze the relationship between soccer and this abstract complex, this paper will look at the presence of nationalism, or even better, the presence of this "sense of belonging" through two main systems: clubs with their visual representations and nations with their respective national symbols. This representation can be analyzed to the extent in which soccer can reflect nationalism and the sense of belonging in certain situations, locations, and periods of history. However, with the limitation that it is not caused or causes nationalism, it is simply correlational relationship. 
Clubs and Visual Representations 
		By definition, a soccer club is a group of people that are united by the common goal of playing soccer and aim to play at the highest they can according to their size, location, and league (The Soccer Mom Manual, n.d.). Additionally, nationalism, the sense of belonging, can also be seen through soccer in this smaller scale called clubs. Two clear examples of this phenomenon are the case of FC Barcelona in Spain and the Celtics and Rangers in Scotland. 
According to Franklin Foer in his book "How Soccer Explains the World (2004)", FC Barcelona represents a "heroic center of resistance to Franco's military regime (Foer, 2004)", and they did so through their powerful influence over the people of Spain, especially Catalonia. In almost every single product sold or given out by the club, they have the slogan "M s que un club" ("More than a club") and this represents how the club involves much more than simply the game. With this slogan, Barcelona has done some great achievements not only as a soccer club but also in the sense of giving the people of Catalonia the sense of belonging and unity they so needed. However, as also argues by Foer, it is ironic how, at the same time, the club also unites the people of both Catalonia and Spain. This may sound like a paradox, but FC Barcelona and Real Madrid's rivalry in Spain is clearly one thing that divides and unites the country at the same time. Because of this complex representation and irony, both FC Barcelona and Real Madrid through their influence in the country, end up bringing the Spanish people together and engendering an even stronger sense of nationalism - or better said, the sense of the "imagined community" described by Anderson. 
In a similar situation, as Professor <name> described in a personal interview, the Celtics and the Rangers also represent individual senses of belonging that also unite the country as a whole. On one hand, the Celtics represents the Catholic Church in the country and this can be clearly seen through the earlier versions of their flag which mainly shows the cross. On the other hand, the Rangers is mainly supported by the Protestants in the country and this is shown through the image of lion and the slogan "Ready", which symbolize the ideals of the fight and manifestation of Protestants in Ireland. Similarly, to the case of Spain, in Ireland, these two teams also, ironically, end up unifying the country in the sense that their rivalry keeps these people connected. 
Therefore, these two case studies are only two examples that demonstrate how soccer and sports can reflect nationalism and the sense of belonging at this smaller scale which is the club teams. 
Nations and National Symbols 
	"A nation is a large body of people, associated with a particular territory. (Dictionary.com, n.d.)". And, according to professor <name> , there are two primary ways in which nationalism is spread in a nation: education and national symbols. In the case, of soccer, national symbols is the most relevant manner in which nationalism is seen and spread. During an interview conducted with him, de la Fuente asked me "Do you know how the flag of Jamaica looks like?" My answer was "kind of" and then he followed up "What about the Brazilian flag?" and my immediate response was "of course. It is my country." These two questions made me reflect and see the importance of national symbols. For the people in Jamaica, their flag is something obvious, engraved in their culture. For me, it is not really something essential. Therefore, this example shows how people identify themselves with their national symbols and characteristics. Although this is a personal example of how I can identify with the flag of Brazil, there are other examples throughout history that also show the relationship between nationalism and soccer. Two of these examples are the countries of Algeria and Ecuador. 
From 1954 to 1962, Algeria was undergoing its independence movement against the colonialist France. In this case the analysis of symbols being represented through soccer changes in the sense that for Algeria soccer was one its main national symbols. According to the historian Alexander Nelson, because the people were fighting throughout Guerrillas and barricades, soccer was an easy way to entertain and distract the people; therefore, it soon became a way to demonstrate the people's unity and identity towards independence. Later on, the Algerian national team became of the main symbols of the country in the sense that it was and still is idolatrized by many of the Algerian citizens. This was not only the case of Algeria, many other countries such as Ghana and Cote d'Ivore found in the sport a way to spread its struggle and identity. 
Unlike Algeria and these African nations, the historian Maxilian Viatori discusses not the presence but the absence of nationalism being reflected through soccer. He argues that because Ecuador is still divided into many of its original indigenous tribes, there is a certain difficulty in spreading nationalism in the country and this is reflected throughout its consequent failures when trying to form a competitive national team. Therefore, Viatori argues for the fact that Ecuador's struggle in soccer goes even beyond the game. It underlies in the country's struggle to promote unity and nationalism as opposed to successful countries in soccer such as Brazil and Germany. 
Therefore, one on side, soccer itself serves as a national symbol to promote unity and "imagined communities" in a country; on the other side, the lack of nationalism can be seen through the absence of such a strong symbol. Hence, these two examples show us how soccer is, in fact, for some nations both ways of spreading national symbols - colors, flags, etc. - as well as it can also serve as a very significant symbol itself. 
Conclusion 
	According to Professor <name> , "history is always in the making, so is nationalism" (de la Fuente A, 24th March, 2015). Therefore, this is a limitation when analyzing the relationship between soccer and nationalism because nationalism is not something fixed or constants; it is and will always going be changing as history progresses. As Benedict Anderson argued, nationalism is a sense of an "imagined community" and, as these communities transform, this sense will also be reshaped and recreated. Even though this limitation exists and nationalism is something that is very vulnerable to changes, sports, especially soccer, is one of the many ways it is expressed in today's society. Therefore, through systems such as nations and clubs with their respective symbols, we can see the representation of nationalism to the extent in which it does not cause or it is not cause by nationalism but rather it both spreads and serves as national or representative symbols that engender the "imagined community" in among countries of groups of people. 
