Athletic training 
Introduction 
	Sports plays a more and more essential role nowadays. To perform better in the matches, there is no doubt that athletes need to train more scientifically in order to increase their competitiveness. For example, some parents may force their children to train at really young ages, which means the children can train longer period compared with their opponents. Some athletes decided to train more intensively or frequently in order to increase their training efficiency. Thus, people may wonder about the best way to train in case of overtraining, which may have adverse effects. It is obvious that understanding the different consequence of training at different ages is of great benefits for athletes to avoid overtraining. What's more, it is important for ordinary people to know it too because we also need to have physical exercise. For instance, we need to consider whether it is good to have physical exercise when we are above 50 years old. I think there are specific types of training and specific amount of training for athletes at different ages to avoid overtraining. 
	Young age training 
	Generally speaking, it is not good for athletes to train their body heavily when they are too young. According to Carole De Haven (2014), If kids are less than 10 years old, training their bodies is under risk. This is because their bodies haven't grown properly, any kind of heavy training, like lifting, may increase the risk of getting injury on their growth plates. But according to Strength Training in Children and Adolescents: Raising the Bar for Young Athletes?, it is beneficial for children to train their strength as long as they are under professional guidance ( Dahab & Mc Cambridge, 2009,p.223-226). However, I think the main reason for this difference is because the "professional guidance" cannot be achieved easily. Most athletes cannot promise that they can have professional guidance all the time. Even the most talented kids who have the best coaches are under risk as well, and there is no need for them to run the risk. Thus, it is generally not good for kids to have heavy training. The best training method for kids, according to Carole De Haven(2014), is to learn skills related to the sports that they are interested. But their parents still need to take caution about overtraining. If the kids are overtrained, they may lose their interest about the sports, which may negatively influence their athletic career. 
Teenager training 
	According to Carole De Haven(2014), the best age for athletes to start having heavy training is the time when they reach puberty, which is about 13 to 14 years old. Kids can start heavy training at this time because their bodies are relatively mature. However, if an athlete experienced significant growth in a short period of time during his puberty, it is still not good for him to have intense physical training because his body is uncoordinated. What's more, coaches still need to pay much attention to overtraining. Even though teenagers' bodies are ready for the heavy training now, overtraining may still cause a huge problem to athletes, both physically and mentally. According to Avoid Overtraining in Young Athletes, it is hard to measure whether an athlete is overtrained because there are so many variables involved in. As a result, coaches need to set the training schedule properly and pay attention to their athletes' states by using tools like questionnaire( Rearick, Creasy, & Buriak, 2011,p.25). 
Training for athletes who are about to retire 
	For athletes who are about to retire, the training methods are quite different compared with teenagers. For example, Michael Jordan kept a really good competition form until 40 years old. He must have special methods of training. According to Carole De Haven(2014), this kind of athlete might only have some simple training instead of heavy physical training because his body is not as young as before. Heavy training may increase the pressure to his body and potentially destroy the rest of his career. The training method he might use would be like running or other non-heavy training, which may not increase the risk of getting injury. 
Older age training 
	It seems athletes' careers generally may end at about 40 years old. However, athletes, or even ordinary people may still want to train their body even when they are above 50 years old. According to Physical activity and public health in older adults: Recommendation from the American College of Sports Medicine and the American Heart Association, since the main reason for these people to train is to keep fit and healthy instead of gaining competitiveness and most of older adults have health problems, to take simple exercises is do beneficial for their physical condition. Based on their health condition, they can gradually increase the intensity of exercises they take to make them healthier(Nelson, M. E., Rejeski, W. J., Blair, S. N., Duncan, P. W., Judge, J. O., King, A. C., ... Castaneda-Sceppa, C., 2011,p.1094-1100). Carole De Haven(2014) also stated that physical training for older people is beneficial as long as they have proper guidance. However, I think it is generally not good for older people to have heavy physical training for the same reason like kids: the professional guidance is hard to achieve, and there is no need for them to run the risk of hurting their body since their bodies are not on the same level like before. 
Conclusion 
	There is no doubt that using different methods of training at different ages is of huge benefits for athletes. There are different standards and types of training that can be beneficial for athletes' training efficiency and health. Based on what we have discussed, I strongly recommend all athletes to pay much attention to their training at different ages. 
Reference 
De Haven,C.(2014,October, 31), personal communication. 
Dahab, K. S., & Mc Cambridge, T. M. (2009). Strength Training in Children and Adolescents: Raising the Bar for Young Athletes? Sports Health: A Multidisciplinary Approach 2009, 1(3), 223-226. doi: 10.1177/1941738109334215 
Nelson, M. E., Rejeski, W. J., Blair, S. N., Duncan, P. W., Judge, J. O., King, A. C., ... Castaneda-Sceppa, C. (2007). Physical activity and public health in older adults: Recommendation from the American College of Sports Medicine and the American Heart Association. Circulation, 116(9), 1094-1105. 
doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.107. 185650 
Rearick, M., Creasy, J., & Buriak, J.(2011). Avoid Overtraining in Young Athletes. Journal of Physical Education, Recreation & Dance,82(5), 25-36. 
doi: 10.1080/07303084.2011. 10598624 
Athletic training 
3 
