Argument Essay 
Purdue University 
(Final Draft ) 
Argument Essay 
	In today's society, more and more people concern about time management. There are lots of debates about managing time. According to a survey taken by the Ocean University of China, nearly 70% of people who did the survey think manage time is important and necessary. However, there are some people who hold the opinion that people do not need to manage time. They think life is meaningless if one has a crowded schedule and has no time to enjoy. In my opinion, time management is too important to ignore. If one does not manage his time, his life would be messy and he can accomplish nothing. 
	First, time management can help people do more works per day. According to my interviewee, <name>, a freshman who knew nothing about time management in last semester and lived a low efficient life, has more things done every day after he managed his time. It is easy to understand why this happened. Before he managed his time, he did not know what time management is. He lived a messy life every day and he woke up very late. Thus he missed all of his morning classes. What is more, woke up late made him become low efficient when he dealt with staff in his life. He lived in Owen Residence Hall last semester. The room was small and lots of dirty clothes were on his bed, sofa, and even on the floor. I asked him why he did not wash these clothes because it was really convenient and cheap to wash that. His answer was: "I have no time." Actually, he missed so many classes, so he needed to study by himself to finish homework. However, studied by himself was low efficient. Even though he put all of his time in self-study, he also got a low GPA in the end. His father helped him to analyze this and told him about the idea and definition of time management. At the start of this semester, he decided to change himself. He made a time schedule for himself. That was a scientific schedule which would not make him so tired but guaranteed he cannot get a bad grade. In other words, this schedule can make him become high efficiency. In order to follow his schedule, my interviewee tried his best to quit his bad habits which made him low efficient before. Now he wakes up early and misses no classes, and he also has time to do laundry and clean his room. What is more, his grades are very good this semester. This situation is much better than last semester. Time is not changed, 24 hours per day, but <name> can do more things every day. What changed is <name> behavior about time. Because he manage time, he became high efficiency and he could finish more works than before within the same amount of time. It is easy to see that time management helps a lot in rising efficiency, which means got more things done every day. 
Second, time management can help students get better academic performance in school. According to Joseph and Konrad (2009), if a teacher wants his students have a good academic performance, there are some choices in their books for teachers to make their students manage themselves better, which means students manage time better. That is because all of the ways that helps students become strong in self-management is related to time management. If a student knows how to manage time, he can make a schedule for himself, then he can follow the schedule every day. Take my interviewee as an example. As I expressed before, he continues to manage time this semester and that helps him get more things dong every day than last semester. Time management also helps him on his study. Because he is high efficient now, he study much more than before. Until now, he gets high grades in all courses he is take this semester. If he can continue manage time, his GPA would be at least 3. 8 this semester. This example shows how time management helps in academic performance. 
Third, time management helps us live in a high quality and happy life. According to Douglass and Douglass (1993), "Voltaire, the great French writer and philosopher, suggested that time enlivens all that is great" (p. 8). Time can make our life wonderful because it can enliven all that is great, so time management can make our life better than wonderful because managing time can make time much more powerful to enliven good things in life. Let us focus on a man's daily life to see how managing time makes life better. If a man do not manage his time, he has no idea about his working time, like when to start or when to finish. That could cause to low efficiency: the man did not finish his yesterday's work and he needs to do it today. Because yesterday's work takes today's time, he cannot finish today's work today and he can just finish it tomorrow. That is what really happens in real life. At last, people who work this way always cannot get fantastic achievement. What is more, people who work in this way may has no time to relax every day. No relaxation makes people under high pressure and easy to be tired. It is very bad for health, then people may fall illness and then all of the life become terrible. However, if a man manages his time, things are different. He has a logical time schedule for himself. He can follow the schedule and finish his every day's job. Even his work is too hard to finish in time limited. He can extend his working time because there must be some space in a perfect time schedule for emergency situation. What is more, he has time to do entertainment, to relax, and to be with his family to enjoy his life. Nobody does not like this kind of life because this means happiness! Wonderful life or terrible life? It depends on whether you manage time or not. It is easy to see time makes every wonderful things better in one's life. 
	Finally, for manufactures, manage time can be more efficient. According to Stalk (2005), in projection televisions and custom plastic injection molds, Japanese producers just use one- third time required by U.S. manufactures. Why Japanese producers are so efficient? Because they are time-based factory. In other words, comparing to manage cost, they manage time. It is easy to see that more and more Japanese cars appear on road in recent years because the high efficiency of Japanese producer. I think time-based management helps Japanese companies a lot in rising percentage of products in market. My aunt owes a big restaurant in my hometown, and the competitive was furious. To be the winner in the competition, my aunt decided to manage time instead of managing cost. She was a chef before, so she knew the exact time to make certain dish. She combined her experiences with actual situations, then she made a timetable for kitchen: chefs need to follow this when they are cooking. After one month, the advantage of time-based management appeared: with a little bit cost rising, time clients waiting for food cut by half than before. In this situation, more and more clients came to my aunts' restaurant and she was the winner in this competition. For those who focuses on cost, they failed in the end. These two examples tell us time management is helpful in manufacturing and personal career. 
	All in all, time management is very important and necessary in our life. No matter what you do, you need time, so managing time should like eating and sleeping- all of them are part of our life. Life is short, managing life, make the short life much more meaningful. 
