Argumentative Essay: The future of Japanese tourism 
On March 11, 2011, there was a 9. 0 magnitude earthquake and tsunami that happened in Japan, and lead to the meltdown at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant which caused a dramatic decline in Japanese tourism. However, several points about the future of Japanese tourism seem optimistic. First is governmental supports for Japanese tourism, second is China becoming the fastest growing market, third is upcoming 2020 Summer Olympic Games, and the final one is the registration of Mt Fuji into UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
In 2013, with the economy recovery in Japan, governmental supports improved the current Japanese tourism. Euromonitor International (2014) and Grant (2012)'s reports that Government provides some support for improving Japanese tourism. After that, Japanese tourism began to growing continuously because consumer confidence and recreational activities are improved. What's more, government also offered lower visa requirement for south Asia directly increased the number of international trips to Japan to 10 million in 2013. The increasing number of visitors from Southeast Asia will have an excellent influence on the future of Japanese tourism. 
In addition, although the natural disaster and the nuclear crisis in 2011 caused international tourists not go to Japan, this situation began to change recently because China became the fastest-growing market for Japanese tourism. Euromonitor International (2014) indicates that the weakening Japanese yen attracts a lot of tourists for lower price to travel to Japan, With the help of increasing Chinese tourists, Japanese tourism will recover to their 2010 level in 2014, and they also predicts that the number of arrivals from China, South Korea, and Taiwan in 2014 will be more than that in 2010 and the number of domestic tourism in Japan will rebound to 305 million in 2016. This information directly shows that the future of Japanese tourism is bright. 
Furthermore, Summer Olympic Games and Paralympics in 2020 will be hosted in Tokyo, this global event will attract more tourists from all over the world. Euromonitor International (2014) predicts that hosting such a huge sporting event is also a great opportunity to assist Japan to reach its target of 20 million visitors by 2020 and broaden the international tourism market. The huge amount of visitors will help Japan reborn from the effect of the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant and encourage Japanese economic recovery. This upcoming event will provide a huge group of potential customers for Japanese tourism in 2020, it can show that the future of Japanese tourism still have a lot of possibilities. 
Besides, Mt Fuji, the highest mountain in Japan became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2013 it attracted more people to come to Japan for this unique Japanese Mountain. Although Mt Fuji has been a world-wide well-known sightseeing place for both international and domestic tourists for a long time, the successful registration of UNESCO World Heritage Site will make more and more visitors come to see and climb the beautiful Japanese Mountain. What's more, there will be more local shops, restaurants and Japanese traditional hotel near Mt Fuji so that it also will encourage the tourism of surrounding towns and cities. This phenomenon shows that there are still a lot of people want to come to Japan because of the beauty and fame of Mt Fuji. 
In conclusion, the future of Japanese tourism will be optimistic. Although Japan faced the meltdown at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. The effect of that is not long-term, Japanese tourism began to get away from the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant in the recent several years. The continuous growth of Japanese tourism in 2013, upcoming 2020 Summer Olympic Games, China became the fastest-growing market, and the registration of UNESCO World Heritage Site of Mt Fuji which I looked into this paper showed that there are still a huge amount of visitors and potential tourists want to travel to Japan. 
Reference 
Ang, B. (2014). Japan has high hopes for tourism. Canadian Travel Press, 47(5), 1-10. 
Retrieved from 
http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hjh&AN=99048010&site=ehost-live 
Euromonitor International.(2014, September 13). Travel and Tourism in Japan, Industry 
Overview. Retrieved from http://www.portal.euromonitor.com/portal/? Ge Up HM2F3n HKXz7w Ra Vq IA%3d%3d 
Grant, M. (2012, March 13). Travel and Tourism Analyst, Japanese Tourism Flows One 
Year On from the Disaster. Retrieved from 
http://www.portal.euromonitor.com/portal/? Jlaja Ae FVK1G1gj GLPL%2fh Q%3d%3d 
Siebert, L. (2013). Japan tourism set to blossom Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland. Issue 
3046, 	p20-20. 2/3p. Retrieved from 
http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=buh&AN=90148848&site=bsi-live 
Stalker, I. (2014). The bloom is back for Japan. Canadian Travel Press, 46(22), 1-9. 
Retrieved from 
http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hjh&AN=94670278&site=ehost-live 
