interview paper 
Study abroad or study in your own county 
Studying within one's country or abroad tend to have advantages and dis advantages. For those who go abroad, the system may mean that people get a better education since some countries may spend more money on building education system than other country which means students get an opportunity to experience a better education model. In my view, I prefer study abroad than study in country. I will give the following reasons to explain my view. 
First of all, study abroad is the best way to a country's culture. I will use my American friend <name> as my example to demonstrate my opinion. <name> has experience of studying abroad for several years which is good for me to do this interview. My questions is why you choose to study abroad. <name> told me there were numerous reasons for him to study in China. The motivation to go China might have been the culture. He told me it would be a great chance to experience another kind of culture in another country. With time passing by, he realized much more benefits. "You will find yourself examining your own assumptions and your own way of life frequently as you immerse yourself in something new and different" (Smith, 2012, p.1). <name> reservation for the Chinese way of life changed as he realized that much of the things in the daily lives become a part of things that people have in their culture. Before my friend went to China, he never believed that there were many long-lived people in China as some news reported. After he immersed himself into real Chinese lifestyle, he found out that drinking tea, doing morning exercises and eating lightly were typical habits of Chinese people which made him believed these reports. From a resource paper "I learned a lot more about myself in that one semester than I did in the three and a half years in my home school because of the unique space in which I learned, experienced, and spent exploring another culture" (Dwyer, 2015, p.2). It's clear to prove <name> words. If students can get a chance to go abroad it would not only be a chance to experience another culture, but also a great opportunity to develop students' characteristics which will impose a deep influence on them. 
What's more, study abroad provides a good chance for these students to experience another education system. During our study life, some students who have been tired of same education model in their country. However you can experience different education system only when you go to another country. For instance, in America, a student are free to change their major during first two years when they want to change. This is not allowed to do in China. After I have experienced the American educational system, I think this kind of system would be better for students, as students can choose what they are really interested in. I also think American educational model can improve the ability of students in all aspects. After I have read Nick's article, it told me "There is a considerable amount of extra-curricular and out-of-school science activities for American students" (Lortie, 1991, p.4) We can also find out that "even during the laboratory session, the Chinese students do not have opportunity to develop hands-on problem-solving skills." (Fort, 1998, p.3) American educational model can provide more hand-on opportunities for students, in order to develop their hand-on abilities. If students can go abroad and get these good influences I think it would be a good resource for students' future development. 
Last but not least, studying abroad will improve students' ability in all aspects. After I have read doctor Dwyer's paper, "Longer stays mean greater benefits" (Dwyer, 2015, p.3) left a deep impression on me. This paper tells us if a student stays overseas longer, more benefits he will get. Indeed during my interview with my friend <name> , he told me that he has been staying in China for three years. During first one year, he didn't change a lot. However, in second and third year he learned some healthy living habits from his Chinese classmates which would be benefit for his entire life. In fact, there are more than these benefits for students to go abroad. I think the most important thing is that you will change your attitude about things around you and even the opinion the world after you have this experience. Using my own experiences to be example. Before I go abroad, I really hate to do some science labs such as chemistry and physics stuff. I think it's not only hard for me, but also boring and useless. However, when I take chemistry course this semester, I find it's really interesting because I can do the labs demonstrate on book by myself which left me a deep impression. After finishing these laboratories, I can understand the chemical equations and solutions more vividly which would be very useful for me to get a good grade. "In truth, four months is an incredibly short amount of time that will fly. It may take several weeks to feel at home, but after that staying as long as possible usually becomes the number one concern "(Bierbower, 2014, p.2) 
With the development of society, students have chance to study abroad. From my opinion, I think it's beneficial for students' all-round development. 
