P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 26th, 2015 
The Electronic Books Should be Promoted in Campus 
With the process of technology development, people can easily read text though their laptop and tablet. Electronic book, an evolutionary idea from about ten years ago, have become feasible, creating a probability that carrying over thousands books in pocket. Thus, universities should consider to promote electronic textbooks, for student's convenience. Electronic books do not only help students to reduce the cost on textbooks and weight on their shoulders but also enhance study efficiency. Thus, promoting electronic books for university students is necessary. 
First of all, electronic books release time and financial pressure. As a full-time student in college, tuition and resident fee are not the only thing one needs to consider about. The reason of the consideration is that students also need to purchase the text book and other materials for the subjects they study. As a result, students need to spend about 1,200 dollars every year for a semester college education (The College Board, 2015). As far as I am concerned, I spent five hundred dollars on textbooks for last semester's course. A thousand dollars are much less than tuition fee but the purchase of books does increase the cost of college education and make the financial situation worse for the students who have educational loan. US News indicates that seventy percent of 2013 graduates have already left twenty eight thousand dollars loan debt before taking jobs (Bidwell, 2014). Moreover, textbooks priced in hundreds dollars would become worthless after finishing courses unless students sell to other who need it, which can be a serious waste of both time and money. Even though renting or buying used books for discounted price is an option, there is still a possibility that the supply of the used book is not able to satisfy the demand of it. Comparatively, without the concern of material and printing, electronic textbooks take an advantage in both price and supply. 
Without the money on paper and shipment, electronic books are supposed to have lower prices. Unfortunately, several market facts influence the price of electronic books and they are sold with a little discount. For example, textbook Thomas' Calculus usually sold for two hundred and fifty dollars in print and one hundred and ninety dollars in electronic. So, some people argue that electronic books actually do not save money as much as they expected. However, universities take their responsibility by promoting electronic books projects. Purdue University is one of the first universities which shows its interest on electronic textbooks and Purdue recently has a trial project about electronic books called the e Text Pilot. The e Text Pilots sells electronic textbooks for twenty dollars for some courses and provides assistance to certain instructors and courses that advocate the use of electronic books (<name>, personal communication, 13 March 2015). Therefore, universities' efforts on electronic reading projects accelerate the arrival of electronic books to campus. 
Except the advantage on price, light electronic readers are becoming popular among young people. Since a typical textbook often weights in several pounds, many students complain they are tired of taking a heavy bag which is full of books. In fact, they only need to read a few material every class, which means they waste their energy on carrying useless papers all the day. Additionally, paper books also need lots of space for storage, usually bookshelves or boxes. Although some have suggested to separate cumbersome books in parts to sell, it forces people to buy a large number of books and causes troubles on organizing. Therefore, an electronic reading devices can be the best solution. Light and diminutive as a magazine, a reading devices usually is able to store overs thousand books in TXT format or hundreds in PDF format (as... format in. devices). People can put their devices in wherever they want-backpacks, pockets or handbags. Not only certain reading devices, people still can also read from their tablet, laptop or even cellphones. In addition, thanks to the emerging display technology, some devices have the feature that text on the screen seems to like reading paper books. Thank to developing reading devices, electronic books are attracting more and more people. 
However, creating portability, reading devices give people convenience with concerns because using electronic devices could make students distract from class when they pay their attention on tapping and scrolling, let alone reading other unrelated books on class. For an instructor, it is impossible to keep eyes on every student while teaching. Therefore, using such reading devices could reduce students' performance. I admit that students cannot always totally focus on class, but no one read textbooks during the class. Most of their behavior is listening to instructor, taking notes and trying to understand the class content. Normally, instructors have already asked students to finish reading tasks before class and it is unnecessary to read during class. Thus, using devices undoubtedly has negative influences to learning efficiency on class. It still cannot be blamed as the main reason of sidetracking from class. 
Contrary to some people's concerns about whether electronic books distract students, electronic books shows some functions that never happen on paper books. Reading books is not the only thing can do. During reading, student use build-in dictionary, encyclopedia and online research to help them learn immediately. Researchers from Technologico de Monterrey in Mexico find that electronic readers like Kindle help students, especially who are good are using digital devices, to have an improvement on study. Some instructors who support electronic books are trying to revise their teach methodology and provide students with extra learning content like the access to some videos, lecture notes and online exercise (Martinez-Estrada, et al, 2012). 
Nowadays, some people have expressed their will for replacing the heavy and expensive textbooks. Since there are increasing number of people start noticing the change of books, the use of electronic books will popularize rapidly and shock the traditional textbooks market in the recent future. Electronic books do show the potential of not only a way to save cost and energy but also a revolution of learning habits and teaching methodology to college education. 
