E-sports as a New Sport 
With the development of computers and Internet, online games have become more and more popular since the last decade. In the meantime, e-sports came out on the world. E-sports includes high-skilled gamers competing with each other by playing online games and winning prizes, and people who play e-sports as a profession are known as pro-gamers. 
Personally, I choose this topic because I play a lot of video games, and after reading some newspaper and online articles, I concluded that there are 3 common misconception in the public's minds. The first idea is that pro-gamer is an easy job simply because playing games is fun. E-sports involves relatively less physical movements, so it's not surprising that people think that e-sports is not a real sport. Last but not least, many people regard games as drugs, or at least that we can learn nothing from e-sports and games. Therefore, I'm writing here to try to change people's stereotype thoughts. 
The first misconception of e-sports comes from what I read in Chinese newspapers on Newbee's winning Dota2 The International 4th. The authors of this kind of articles all thought being a pro-gamer was an easy job because they played games all day long and won pennies from heaven (Tao, 2014). Mou "PDD" Liu, a retired pro-gamer, explained how his life as a pro-gamer is different from what others think about. PPD used himself as an example when he said, "imagine if you are a pro-gamer who lives on playing games, and you are required to play the same game at least 10 hours a day. Will you still enjoy this game? Personally, I feel a little bored day after day, so I retired. You can also try playing the same online game for 8 hours in one day, and you know my feelings. It's also very common for us pro-gamers to stay overnight to 6 A.M., which can have negative impact on our health. It's not an easy job, dude" (personal communication, October 11, 2014). I believe what PDD said. Just like other sports, e-sports maybe fun when you only have it for entertainment, but when it becomes a profession that involves systemic training and tactics, it is not that interesting and may be physically harmful to pro-gamers. Only people who really love games can keep doing this job. 
Some other people doubt that e-sports cannot be recognized as a true sport because real sports should challenge people's physiological limits. Since pro-gamers normally just sit for hours to play, e-sports can't be counted as a sport. Personally speaking, playing video games sometimes challenges people physiologically because one match can take more than an hour without any breaks. I remember that the Counter Logic Gaming EU and World Elite in Season 2 Lo L World Championship lasted 8 hours due to network problems. During that 8 hours pro-gamers cannot eat anything because the problem could be fixed at any time. After that match was over, all of the people in these two teams looked exhausted making audience feel that they just had a marathon race. Playing e-sports sometimes challenges people physically, but it is a more mentally oriented sport just like snooker and chess (Burrell, 2013). This idea is more supported by Hutchins's description that pro-gamers always have a lot of sweat during the match because of the mental intension as well as they thinking quite a lot (Hutchins, 2007). We can learn that e-sports challenge people mentally, which is different from other sports. Therefore, e-sports should not be simply compared with traditional sports. 
The last common misconception comes from Weibo (Chinese Twitter) of a famous professor in China called Hongkai Tao. With 39,000 followers, he claimed that we can learn nothing from e-sports and that the only thing we can get from e-sports is addiction to games. He repeatedly called games "opium" and pro-gamers "drugsters" in his Weibo posts. Tao might be right in some situations, but everything has two sides. It is true for some people but not for all. E-sports can give us entertainment and some positive energy, and more importantly, e-sports can teach us some very important lessons. It is an intellectual sport that involves thoughtful decisions and precise calculations, and we can practice these good habits in playing video games. In addition, in some games like Lo L and Dota 2, which require 5 people in one team, teamwork is of great importance. While playing these kind of games, we can learn to communicate with others effectively, and to divide the labor and collaborate as a team. 
Undoubtedly, e-sport is getting more popular and influential and should be discussed in the same breath as traditional sports. Similar to traditional sport tournaments, large-scale and formal e-sports events are held in these years, for example, World Cyber Games before and now annually Lo L World Championship and Dota 2 The International Championship (TI). Lo L World Championship this year was held in Sangam Stadium in South Korea, which was the venue of FIFA 2002 World Cup. 40 thousand audiences went to the scene, and at last Samsung White won 1 million dollar as champion prize (Jackson, 2014). Dota 2 TI4 this year was held in Key Arena in Seattle, which was the home of Seattle Sonic, a former NBA team. Over 20 million audiences from all over the world witnessed Newbee's winning 4. 73 million dollar donated by all Dota2 players in grand final (Mc Whertor, 2014). Nowadays, authorized media, such as Wall Street Journal, New York Times, ESPN, start to cover e-sports news, and even U.S. air force sponsor an e-sports team, Cloud 9's Lo L team (Breslau, 2014). US government now recognizes League of Legends (Lo L) pro-gamers as pro athletes and gives them P1 visas when they need to travel (Makuch, 2013). South Korea also set up an official e-sports organization called Korea e-Sports Association (Ke SPA), in charge of all e-sports teams, players and events in South Korea. As these examples tell us, e-sport is becoming recognized worldwide as a legitimate sport. 
In conclusion, e-sports is a new sport from which we can not only relax ourselves but also learn some skills. Pro-gamers' systemic training and team tactics require highly trained skills and cooperation that is not as easy as people think. E-sports and pro-gamers are now respected by government and a large number of people, so those people with misunderstandings, please throw away your stereotype and evaluate e-sports squarely. 
