P5D1 Argumentative 
4/16/2015 
Human have been keeping pets since the beginning of the civilizations, and the species of human pets are changing over time. Up to now, the species of human pets have gained a wide range of a great variety. Different pets are popular among different types of people. However, there is one kind of pet, which is one of the most suitable pets for human to keep----Cats. We should keep cats because they can improve our lives and we can also improve theirs. 
First of all, cats are easy to keep. Among the most popular pets, cats are the only kind that are highly self-efficient. Except during infancy, you can simply just leave a plate of food and water on the floor, offer a toy or two, and go. Your cat can still have fun all day without your presence. "Because of cats' self- efficiency, they are very suitable for old people who don't have much energy to take care of their pets."(Alan Beck) Contrasting to other pets such as dogs which require a lot of cares, cats are super easy to keep. 
Self-efficiency isn't the only thing cats have. According to Dean (2008), cats can consistently improve human's mood. A Swiss organization studied on 200 couples who kept cats and compared the effects of both the couples and the cats on their moods. And the outcome showed that cats can appease negative moods although they cannot promote positive ones. Cats can improve human's health as well. Research has shown the long-term benefits of owning a cat include protection for your heart. Over the 20 years of one study, people who never owned a cat were 40% more likely to die of a heart attack than those who had (27 ways pets can improve your health, 2014). Also, researchers has found that children grown up with cats are less likely to develop allergies, and their immune system is stronger than those who did not. 
Not only cats can offer goodness to human, human can also benefit cats' lives. Researchers used the classic procedure "strange situation" (putting cats into a totally strange circumstance with and without its most familiar person's presence) to find that cats are more relaxed when their owners are present, proving that their emotional bonds between human do exist. (Dean 2008) In addition, there are still a lot of stray cats on the streets. They eat mice from sewers and catch birds, and they might live in a garbage yard or on somebody's rooftop, where they cannot have protection from disease and injury. Cats are vulnerable. Many stray cats die from infected parasites and diseases and traffic accidents every year. Domestic cats' lives are totally different and they can live much better under human's protection. Their lives are significantly influenced by human behavior, such as altering. Altering does not hurt the cat, inversely, it make the cat less anxious during mating season. Unlike other pets, it is totally fine to leave your cat alone at home for days, with plenty of water and food because loneliness seldom disturb their emotions. That's the reason cats are so suitable for human, they can be very happy when you are around them, and they can still be very happy when you are not around. 
One might say that cats carry parasites which can pose potential harm to our health. The most common parasite a cat might carry is toxoplasma gondii. However, the harm this parasite can bring, has been exaggerated. Except for pregnant women and infants, this parasite has almost no influences on human. Besides, many people who are infected by toxoplasma gondii didn't get it from their cats but from unclean food or raw meat. Also, you can bring your cat to animal hospitals to do routine check to prevent any potential parasite infection. 
Cats improve our health conditions including heart problems and reduce our pressure while we improve their living environment and health conditions by taking in stray cats and bring them into animal hospitals. There is no reason why two mutually beneficial creatures can't be together. With all the benefits cats offer and things we can do for them, human and cats have created create a perfect species crossing symbiosis. So I should keep a cat, and you should keep a cat. 
