Extracellular Matrix is a beneficial technology 
April 8th , 2015 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This thesis is an argumentative paper targeting to convince the audience that the extracellular matrix, when applied for the wounded, is beneficial. Despite the possible side effects, the advantages of the extracellular matrix (re-growing body part) outweighs the side effects. This paper showed <name>'s interview (March 1st, 2015 Personal Communication) and the evidence that the side effect exists (Coito & Kupiec-Weglinski, 2000) but can be cured (Kirk et al., 1999). The paper also presents that the extracellular matrix proves to be useful in re-growing the muscle, according to BBC news (April 30th, 2008) 
Keyword: Extracellular matrix, side effects, result, beneficial 
Extracellular Matrix is a beneficial technology 
People get wounded all the time, and some of them sought to heal the wound. As time goes by, people have found out that the extracellular matrix showed great potential in healing the wound and re-growing the body part. The social media has boasted about its great potential and before I conducted the research that continued for half of the semester, I doubted about it. But after I conducted the interview with <name> (March 1st, 2015 personal communication) and painstakingly read the paper about the side effects, I found out that extracellular matrix worth developing and is very promising because of its effectiveness in regenerating tissues, controllable side effects and the low cost. 
The prospect of the extracellular matrix is very promising. According to New York Time (September 17th, 2012), a maimed soldier in Afghanistan, Ron Strang lost his left thigh because of the bomb blast. Doctor harnessed the extracellular matrix in the pig bladder and in the article this soldier said he could run like a normal soldier do and he would has never known the soldier has been hurt that much if he didn't saw him before. This only took his two years to regrow his leg and he became normal again. In another case BBC reported (April 30th , 2008), Lee Spievak cut of his finger in a plane model, and his brother who works in the regenerative field sent him some extracellular matrix powder. After four weeks he grew his finger back and he said he feel it is completely natural. BBC also reported that the doctors show confidence in using extracellular matrix to grow back the burnt skin. Also according to NBC news (March 22nd, 2008), the specialist, Steven Wolf in extracellular matrix also thought extracellular matrix has the potential to regrow the tissue. Extracellular matrix is a great advance in the medical area. Take myself as an example, I wounded terrible on my leg when I was 10, it took me for a year to recover using bandage and iodine alcohol. However, Mr. Spievak lost his finger but is able to get it back in merely four weeks using extracellular matrix. So, consider only using extracellular matrix outside the body it is efficient. 
The side effects of the extracellular matrix are not all vital. In the interview, <name> (March 1st, 2015 personal communication), a biological engineering student at Purdue University who has been researching with extracellular matrix consistently this semester mentioned three main side effects: The first is the malnutrition problem, the second is the muscle loss which is partially correlated to the malnutrition problem and lastly, the most deadly, the transplantation rejection. Malnutrition problem, according to Yumin Gao can be "cured by giving them enough major and supplement supply such as glucose, protein, fat, vitamins and minerals. The second problem which is caused by malnutrition and the fast metabolism can be reverted by enough nutrition supply and reasonable amount of physical training, Yumin said. However, the third problem is more complex. There are two kinds of transplantation rejection, Libby and Pober (2001) stated. The first one is acute rejection which can occur 2 weeks after the transplantation of the organs. Another is chronicle rejection which occurred after the suppression of the rejection failed. The research conducted by Coito and Kupiec-Weglinski (2000) has proved that the extracellular matrix has acted as an "active participant" in the acute rejection that will cause the transplanted organs failed to function. However, Kirk et al. (1999) have found out a suppressor called CD154 which will suppress a protein that partially control the immune system called CD40. This protein have been experimented on the monkeys and the research team found out that CD154 can suppress the rejection for as long as 10 months with one injection. Also they found out that the injection of CD154 will cause no side effect - it will be eliminated by the body itself. However, the chronicle rejection seemed to be incurable currently but the existence of the CD154, according to Kirk et al., will lower the chance for the patient to transform the acute rejection to the chronicle rejection. Eventually, the extracellular matrix have some risks but the risks are highly controllable and the most of the side effects can be cured easily with current technology. 
The last but not least, extracellular matrix outweigh other regenerative technology because of its lower cost. <name> (March 1st, 2015 personal communication) told me there are an alternative technology called biological 3D-printing that is in developing. However he told me that this technology is very expensive and thusly develop slowly. On the other hand, extracellular matrix can be retrieved from the pigs' bladders, which is useless for daily life so it could be massively collected for research use. If the research material could be obtained with such a low cost, it would be cheap for the technology to use for patient and to develop for the research. 
Conclusion 
This paper shows two main advantages of the extracellular matrix, which are the effectiveness of the extracellular matrix and the low cost of this technology. The disadvantage is also explained, which is the side effects. Even though the side effects of the extracellular matrix seems to be a main drawback of the extracellular matrix, the antidote for the side effect is also proved to be effective and safe. From this paper, it is safe to conclude that the advantages of extracellular matrix outweighs the disadvantages of it. Thusly, the extracellular matrix is a beneficial technology for human to use. 
