12/13/2015 
Developing one's ability to read people's facial expressions is important 
No need for solid evidence, no need for polygraph, even no need for any voice, only a little change in one's face is enough to be detected as lying, this is the ability of Dr. Lightman in the TV series 'Lie to me'. This kind of skill might sounds amazing and fancy, but it's impossible or in another word, been exaggerated. However, that doesn't mean that reading facial expressions is useless. Actually, knowing facial expressions and how to read facial expressions is really important to everyone and helps us to live a better life instead of insignificant or even harmful. 
I have asked some of my friends about their view on facial expressions and most of them think that facial expression is not related to our lives. However, actually facial expression is vital in everyone's life. Facial expressions are a form of nonverbal communication. They are a primary means of conveying social information between humans, but they also occur in most other mammals and some other animal species (Alan). Facial expression is probably the earliest form of communication between different people, before written or spoken language, we tend to use facial expressions to express our emotions. People used to be very good at reading facial expressions because people had to read facial expressions because facial expression was people's only 'language' at long time ago. If someone in long time ago meet an animal in the jungle, he would immediately express fear in his face to let people around know that there's danger. Right now because of the development of technology and other ways of communicating or different types of languages' emergence, people are gradually losing this type of ability. As we can see right now, text messages and instant communicating apps are already become a irreplaceable part of our daily language. People are intending to use these 'nonverbal' communication instead of oral communication. According to a new study, 31% of American adults prefer text messages to phone calls (Amy ). We really should develop or more properly, recover our ability of reading facial expressions. 
Although as I mentioned above that people are using less communication, people do use facial expression in another way. We use emoticons to show what we feel on text messages as we use facial expression when we communicate with others. People would send a face with tear to indicate that he is sad or things doesn't go well and a face with joy to clearly show that he is happy. Recently, the oxford dictionary selected 'emoji' as the Word of the Year because they think that a pictographic script like emoji can fill those gaps during our communication -it's flexible, immediate, and infuses tone beautifully. As a result emoji are becoming an increasingly rich form of communication, one that transcends linguistic borders. Although emoji is just face with tears of joy but it's the representative of the 'family of emoji', the popularity of emoji tells us that facial expression still plays a very vital role in our communication. 
On the other hand, recognizing facial expression is also very useful in professional fields and would also serve everyone's life. We all know that the agents of FBI and even some police officers are trained to learn a little basic facial expression to help detect the criminals and potential threats. Although it might not be as accurate in the TV series, it's still very helpful in urgent circumstances. I have interviewed <name> who is an assistant professor in Consumer Science and the Director of the Centre for Professional Selling at Purdue University. Dr. <name> field of research is using the facial expression in sales. By using facial expression analysis and behavior training to tell you what the world see on your face and give you feedback. After the analysis, a businessman can intentionally train himself to behave what he needs to show others which is pretty important on negotiations. This is a very important usage of facial expression for now since facial expression recognition is not mature enough to be used on high-end fields. Also recently, Microsoft's emotion-reading tool is available to developers in beta now. The company's Project Oxford artificial intelligence team has invented emotion-reading technology that uses knowledge of facial expressions to identify specific human feelings in photos. The company released that tool at Microsoft's Future Decoded event on Wednesday, and it has been released in beta to developers. Basically it trains computers to recognize eight core emotional states: anger, contempt, fear, disgust, happiness, neutral, sadness and surprise (Collins) . Although right now it can only be used for entertainment, it's a milestone on the field of emotion-reading. These are very promising fields that 
While even in the brightest sky, there would be some black clouds. Some conservative people would say that developing that kind of technology isn't safe and could be used by some bad people. Some aggressive people might even think that the government would use that technology to spy every US citizen because of the scandal with Edward Snowden. And I think that's correct and understandable, the ability to read facial expression itself is useful and neutral, but it does could be used by people with bad intentions and might cause possible bad consequence because of the recognition of facial expressions like gamblers or conman. But there's always bad people and bad intentions just like a gun could be used by someone for self -defense or could become a murder weapon. As what I can say is, the problem should be how and who to use this technology properly when the technology is powerful enough instead of whether we should develop this technology. The former problem is related to ethical controversies and is definitely beyond my knowledge and capacity. But for the later question, without any doubt, my answer is YES. We can not stop our pace of exploring facial expressions just because of the possible abuse of facial expressions 
In conclusion, it's really important to develop our ability to read facial expression and to develop our technology on reading facial expression. We need more than ever to know what different types of faces mean. It's part of the development of our EQ, knowing others' feeling and make people feel better is always crucial in any situations and make us a better talker. And for professional fields, developing the knowledge and technology to read facial expression is going to make our life safer and more comfortable. Imagine that someday when we have enough database and evidence to build a system to predict people's next move, we can really stop criminals or even terrorists like some episodes in the movies. The episode in the movie or in the TV series will be no longer a dream if we keep our pace properly. 
Reference 
Fridlund, Alan J. 'Human facial expression: An evolutionary view'. Academic Press, 2014. 
Katie Collins.' Surprised? 'Yeah, Microsoft's tech knows that's how you felt'' . November 11, 2015.< http://www.cnet.com/news/surprised-microsofts-tech-knows-thats-how-you-felt/> 
Gahran, Amy. "One-third of Americans prefer texts to voice calls." CNN. Web. 22 Sept. 2011. <http://www.cnn.com/2011/09/22/tech/mobile/americans-prefer-text-messages/>. 
