Benefits of Living On Campus for Students 
Did you know that living in the dormitories for four years could increase your cumulative and semester grade point average by a letter grade while giving you the chance to meet a wide variety of people who are outside of your usual social scene? Multiple studies provide evidence that the residence of students could change the way they get involved with their schools and the communities. That is why many large universities require freshman to live in the residence halls, and provide various academic services such as tutoring for the residences. Life in the university residence halls is more beneficial for students in terms of their academic and social life. 
Zach Birch, the Area Coordinator of Tarkington Hall, who was one of my interviewees, mentioned that the staff who are working in the residence halls and their policies lead to a community where people feel safe to study, and continued by saying, "In the residence halls we have a lot to offer in terms of communal learning." Working collaboratively as a community does not only help students to get their work done, but it also helps them to develop skills that will prepare them for the professional world, where teamwork is essential for success. From the early experience I had, I have always found living in the dormitories more beneficial when it comes to academics. Especially for first year students who are required to take the general education classes, by living in the dormitories, they can find many people who are taking the same classes and are assigned to do the same work. This similarity will naturally open up a collaborative working environment where students can share their knowledge, and work together without any university sponsored assistance. Additionally, according to the research that included approximately six thousand undergraduate students that are sophomores or above at Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis in Fall 2008, the authors, Pedro de Araujo and James Murray (2010), stated that on average, living on campus increases a single semester and cumulative grade point average by 0. 19 to 0. 97 points. 
In addition to leading to better classroom performance, living in university residence halls has various social benefits and opportunities for students. According to Kasha Patel (2012), the author of the article "10 Reasons to Live in a Dorm for 4 Years", life in the dormitories is an once-in-a-lifetime experience, and there are ten solid reasons for students to live in a dormitory for 4 years. One of the top reasons for living in a dormitory as described by the article is location and proximity to university services. Classes, cafeterias, friends, libraries, and sports centers are all within walking distance. Another key factor as stated by Patel is safety. Dormitories have security cameras, restricted access to the buildings, and residence hall assistants on duty. Nobody can enter the building without a student ID card, and this keeps the dormitory as a secure living area for students. Veer Patil, a residence hall assistant who has experienced life both on and off campus, brought up another point by mentioning the open-door policies and how they help students feel like a part of a large community by saying "We have forty-six kids on our floor, so you have made forty-five friends coming into college. Most of the residence halls have open-door policies that encourage a lot of new friendships." Additionally, Zach Birch, who has defined the social experience as a big learning opportunity, added that life in the residence halls encourages students to get along with their peers who are living around them, and work with individuals who have different perspectives, which are necessary skills in life. 
Life on and off campus affects individuals in various ways due to the different expectations they have. After going through the process of conducting interviews and researching sources that could prove my point, I am confident in suggesting that living in the university residence halls has more benefits when compared to living off campus in terms of academic and social success for the majority of students. In addition to improving the academic performance and having a significant increase in the student's grade point average, life in the residence halls also provide numerous social advantages such as the opportunity to meet people with different values and view points. In conclusion, when it is time to decide where to live for the next school year, students shouldn't let peoples' thoughts and the biased judgment of society guide their decision. They should consider all the effects that living on and off campus might have, so that they will not be one of the many students who move back to their dormitories after experiencing that one horrible year off campus in the future. 
