Food Safety and Food Diversity for International Students 
Schools like Purdue have a huge base of both domestic students and international students and these students who just start to live by themselves for the first time can encounter with a lot of food safety problems. This would be more severe for international students, who consists about 10 percent of the students in Purdue, because they are not familiar with the American food and may get involved with more food-borne illness problems than domestic students would have. Colleges need to improve the food safety education system for students, especially for international students, to reduce the high rate of food-borne illness reported by college students. Colleges may also need to run researches to find out through what kind of medias students may prefer to receive these information, social medias or working with student organizations would be very good choices. 
Some may argue that the dining service is the first American food system most international students would experience in America, and the food safety problem is highly considered and monitored in the dining courts. Students can also find a lot of diversity in the menus which the dining courts provide. According to the interview with a supervisor in the dining court, <name> , the dining service on-campus tries to improve their diversity in the food menus and always looks forward to suggestions and comments from organizations and individuals to try to have more students eating in the dining courts. Eating in the dining courts could guarantee the food safety problems for students. Because based on my experience working in the dining court before, the food safety standard in the dining courts is very high. Every time, for example, you enter the food-preparation area, you would be asked to wash your hands for more than twenty seconds. And they also get rid of a lot of unused food every night, although it may seem a little wasteful. People in the dining courts always try to increase the diversity of the food provided in the dining court to attract more students to eat in the dining courts as well. Like they would provide some Asian or Latino food on the menus to see people's reactions toward these new dishes and improve accordingly. This could definitely attract a lot of students to eat in the dining courts and have less risks to get food-borne illness, which people get sick by consuming contaminated foods or beverages or by inappropriate approaches to food. 
But the reality is that a lot students often choose to eat in off-campus restaurants or learn to cook on their own to seek more ethic food and lower cost, which in the meantime could bring a lot of unpredictable results, like food borne illness to international students. Students may eat in the on-campus food service during their first year in college, during which time most of them are recommended to live on-campus and asked to buy meal plans. But they would most likely eat in a lot of unfamiliar restaurants or cook on their own when they move out of the dorms according to "Examining the Prevalence of Self-Reported Food-borne Illness and Food Safety Risks Among International College Students in the United States" by Robinson et all.(3) For example, my Indian friend who is a vegetarian thinks the dining courts provide, although they have tried hard, very limited food options for vegetarians, and he tries to cook on his own. But "students may encounter with a lot of food safety problems due to the lacking of knowledge about food safety" (Robinson et all 3) 
Students report food-borne illness due to inappropriate approaches to deal with certain kinds of unfamiliar food. A lot of international students have no experience in dealing with pre-processed food before. I personally have no experience about making American style "cold foods" or pre-prepared food and how to make sure the ingredients can be safe stored and bacteria-free without heating. While working in the dining court, I noticed that people here in the America just take the food packages out of the refrigerator and process them. This is so different from a lot of other countries, where people would like to buy fresh ingredients from the markets and cook them. But here, even the storing of food could be an issue for students who have no experience with such kind of food and processing method. Also, as Blichfeldt has mentioned in his article, international students in the host country may not just follow the tradition of their family cooking styles. They may also try some new cooking styles from the host countries and other countries. This could increase the chances of getting food-borne illness because cooking in an unfamiliar style would bring a lot of uncertainty about ingredients processing, or even wrong approaches to the food. My Indian friend I mentioned before was also struggling about some unfamiliar ingredients he met in the market once. He was just not sure whether he can use the ingredients there to make himself a sandwich and don't get ill because of inappropriate approach to some unfamiliar vegetables. 
The food safety information programs are lacking and needed in colleges and more food information should be indicated on the labels as well. It came to my notice that Purdue has a gap in the food safety education part, or at least the program is not noticeable enough. "Colleges should pay more attention to the education of safety information for students via medias students would prefer to receive these information"as Federico mentioned in "Changes in Dietary Habits following Temporal Migration The Case of International Students in Belgium" (3) A lot of students, both domestic and international, are lacking this kind of knowledge about food safety. This lacking could results in intense problems later, food poisoning, for instance. The labels of the food packages also provide very limited food safety information to students who are not familiar with the ingredients. This may cause a lot of food-borne illness when students try to deal with these unfamiliar ingredients. (Federico, 3) For example, I personally can't find much useful information on how to store the cheese properly and how to know whether it has gone bad on the package of the cheese. This is disappointing because I would not likely to choose to eat much cheese since I don't have enough information about it and I don't want to get sick. 
Compared with domestic students, international students may face more challenges in the food safety problems and colleges should pay more attention about this situation. According to Almohanna in "Impact of Dietary Acculturation on the Food Habits, Weight, Blood Pressure, and Fasting Blood Glucose Levels of International College Students" International students do not only stick with their own country dishes, but tend to try other kinds of food.(4) People are taking more risks while dealing with unfamiliar things, the same situation while encounter with food. International students might need to get in touch with specific food they are allergic to but they have no idea until they try it, such as peanut. 
Thus, colleges may need to pay special attention to the needs of international students while designing the food safety education programs, especially colleges like Purdue, which has a huge base of international students, 10 percent as I mentioned before. These programs should definitely teach students how to deal with ingredients used a lot in the cooking style of the host countries, but they also should include information about ingredients which could be used in other kinds of dishes, like spices in Indian dishes and raw fish in Japanese cuisine. 
Being aware of the presence of the food safety problem is not enough, colleges should also try to find ways, such as social medias and special programs, which students would like to receive these food safety information. College students nowadays spend a lot of their time on the social medias. " This new form of identity development is important for educators to understand because it may influence how students learn and develop in the higher education setting." ( Dalton et all, 1) Colleges could benefit a lot from running their food safety education systems by using this latest and most powerful invention ever in the human history. And with the strong base of the Purdue engineering school, which means a lot of designers and programmers, Purdue could definitely launch its education system on the social medias to attract students to acknowledge the food safety problems in their daily life. Also, Purdue could work with student organizations and put these education programs into activities organized by these organizations. BGR would be a perfect option for the Purdue official to work with. I still remember the academic integrity and "free zone" programs I attended during the BGR. These kinds of problems are so fun and relaxing that students can easily and are more willingly to absorb the information provided. Colleges could definitely try other ways, but they should be creative or students would not pay attention to these programs. 
Colleges need to find an effective way for students to receive information to improve their knowledge about food safety. The reason why colleges should pay attention is that food borne illness has been a severe problem among students, especially international students. Solving this problem could be extremely important here since Purdue has a huge group of international students. If the school failed to improve the food safety education system, life quality of students would drop and the school may also be put in inquests by the public for not protecting its students well. 
Work Cited 
Dalton, J C and Crosby, P C (2013) Digital identity: How social media are influencing student 
learning and development in college Journal of College and Character 14(1) 1-4 Pro Quest Web. 30 Nov. 2015 
Garden-Robinson, Julie, Agnes Ngale Lyonga, and Myron Eighmy. "Examining the Prevalence of 
Self-Reported Food-borne Illness and Food Safety Risks Among International College Students in the United States" Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior 42.4: 114 Science Direct Web 18 Sept. 2015 
Blichfeldt, Bodil and Malene, Gram "Lost In Transition? Student Food Consumption" Higher 
Education 65. 3 (2013): 277-289 Academic Search Premier Web. 17 Sept. 2015 
Amos, Stephanie and Daphne Lordly "Picture this: a photovoice study of international students' 
food experiences in Canada" Canadian Journal of Dietetic Practice and Research 75. 2 (2014): 59+. Health Reference Center Academic Web. 17 Sept. 2015 
Brown, Lorraine, Edwards, John and Hartwell, Heather. "A Taste of the Unfamiliar Understanding 
the Meanings Attached to Food by International Postgraduate Students in England" Appetite (2009): 202-07 Science Direct Web. 18 Sept. 2015 
Perez-Cueto, Federico, Wim Verbeke, Carl Lachat and Anne Marie Remaut-De Winter "Changes in Dietary Habits following Temporal Migration The Case of International Students in Belgium" Appetite 52 1:83-88 Science Direct Web. 18 Sept. 2015 
Almohanna, Amal MS, Conforti, Frank Ph D, Eigel. William Ph D and Barbeau, William Ph D 
"Impact of Dietary Acculturation on the Food Habits, Weight, Blood Pressure, and Fasting Blood Glucose Levels of International College Students" Journal of American College Health, 63:5, 307-314 Science Direct Web. 18 Sept. 2015 
