Some countries allow genetically modified food but others decide to ban it, and it is still one of the most controversial issues that people debate over. GM food is a technology that alters the genes of our food for higher a higher production of food. This technology was introduced about 4 to 5 decades ago into consumer's sights. The hope of this technology is to bring up food production at a stable point so the price of food won't fluctuate. However, many scientists and consumers do not view GM food as an plausible practice due to the possible harm it might cause to our body. In the US, about 80% of the foods we eat today are genetically modified, but the US government is not willing to spend the money to put labels on the GM foods. Consumers do not have a choice, but to risk their own health while consuming GM food. Thus, the US should put labels on food packages that contain GM food materials. 
	Many scientists who support the idea of GM food claim that the food had been tested over and over again before they were released for the consumers. However, this claim was false.(Schubert,2014). Scientists usually take few copies of GM foods and test them over and over again to make sure they are safe. Yet, there is something called mutation. Even though the probability of mutation is very low, when scientists make hundred and thousands of copies from the same copy of genes, mutation will be much more likely to happen. It is impossible and too time consuming for the scientists to test every copies of the GM food and sometimes, this is how mutated food goes into animals and our bodies. "It is often claimed that "trillions of GM meals" have been eaten in the US with no ill effects." (Hilbeck,2013). However, it was not because GM food really had no effects on human bodies, it was because there are no studies to be done to associate GM food with the health effects of GM food consumption. Why? Because GM foods are not labeled so it is impossible to trace the consumption of GM foods. (Hilbeck,2013). If we really want to know whether GM food cause harm to our bodies, labeling is an inevitable step. 
	Regulations on GM foods are also very limited. Biotech companies that are private do their own safety assessments. FDA, also known as the Food and Drug Administration does not provide any precaution for the possible harm of GM food, nor do they require companies to do safety testing of the GM foods. FDA is suppose to make sure the food we eat and the drug we use are safe for our body to consume. However, simply no regulations are imposed on these suppliers of GM food.(Barlotto,2013) Imagine if you own a company and you try to maximize your profit. Why would the companies bother the time and money to test and regulate themselves if no one is watching over them? Imagine what a ten year old kid would do if his parents are not watching over him, he would do anything he wants, and probably all the things that his parents do not allow him to do. This creates tremendous harm to the consumer sides. Since there are no reports directly point out diseases that are caused by GM food, biotech companies can usually get away with the reduced testing and reduced regulation. If no one is watching over these private companies that try to maximize their profits, labeling will allow consumers to watch over themselves. 	 
	What do the consumers really want? "Consumers cannot distinguish the risks and benefits of the technology itself" (Bredahl, 2001). Consumers with little awareness on this topic usually have negative attitude towards GM food. However, the further they know more about this topic, they still do not gain positive attitudes, instead, they gain stronger negative attitudes. Since people have negative attitudes, many Americans support labeling of GM food, "according to a New York Times poll conducted this year, with 93 percent of respondents saying that foods containing such ingredients should be identified."(Kopicki,2013). Despite the strong support for labeling, but why cant labeling laws get passed? Companies such as Monsanto, Dupont Pioneer, Bayer Crop Science, Dow Agrosciences, and the Grocery Manufacturers Association spend over 25 million dollars to prevent labeling of GM foods. This makes consumers wonder, what is there to hide behind GM foods? 
	About 80% of the foods in the US are genetically modified. However not enough tests and regulations were done to prevent possible harm from the consumers, and consumers have no transparency on what they actually eat. It is consumers' right to choose what they actually eat, especially if the food could harm our body. No matter how much money those biotech companies spend every year to stop the labeling, they still cant deny the fact the labeling is needed in the near future, for the consumers and data analysis on the possible harm of GM food. 
Bartolotto, C. (2013, October 4). Why Genetically Modified Foods Should Be Labeled. Retrieved November 19, 2014, from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/carole-bartolotto/why-genetically-modified-food_b_4039114.html 
Bredahl, L. (2001). Determinants of Consumer Attitudes and Purchase Intentions With Regard to Genetically Modified Foods - Results of a Cross-National Survey. 24(1).23-61. DOI: 10.1023/A: 1010950406128 
Kopicki, A. (2013, July 27). Strong Support for Labeling Modified Foods. Retrieved November 19, 2014, from http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/28/science/strong-support-for-labeling-modified-foods.html?_r=1& 
Schubert, D., & The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of David Schubert. (2014, February 3). Why we need GMO labels. Retrieved November 19, 2014, from http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/03/opinion/schubert-gmo-labeling/ 
