Tackling the Future Energy Challenge 
March 27, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author's note 
Introduction 
My previous research paper focused on a variety of spectrum in different views about renewable energy. After the identification of the potential of renewable energy in providing humans the solution to the energy challenge ahead of us, I progressed to search for the opinion from an expert about his thoughts on the potential of renewable energy. Through the discussion, I found out that as beneficial renewable energy can get, it has a lot of limitations, besides being largely dependent on government policy and current technological advancement. Hence, for this paper, I am going to take a stand, and support the efforts of researches in renewable energy, above all other research. Looking at the long-term benefits renewable energy can provide to humans, I think it is imperative that research should focus on renewable energy, and that we are in a constant progress towards finding the solution to the energy challenge. 
Tackling Energy Challenge 
Humans are born a problem solver, a creative thinker. After so much research on understanding the energy challenge, into identifying renewable energy as one of the main solution to the current energy crisis we are facing, there is so much limitation to such a source of clean energy. However, what impressed me is how creative humans can get in problem solving. There is no denial that the renewable energy sector is facing a large scale of limitation, countless of them, as I have researched in my previous paper. There is no question that I have doubted the current progress in solving our energy challenge is sufficiently fast pace enough for us to overcome our every growing demands for energy. But, I have faith in humans. We have overcome one challenge after another hurdled towards us. What could possibly implicate that this particular challenge is of such a degree that we cannot fix? As how persistently our major fuel, petroleum decreases, that was how persistently green technology is improving. It may not always be the most visible change we see, but by just taking a stroll back in time, we can see how we progressed. I have faith in us, not because it is the only choice humanity has, but based on statistical evidence and scientist research I have read over, I am thoroughly convinced on how collaboration of creative mind, and the urgency of the current state of energy demand, is pushing the discovery and progress towards green technology, and finding the resource for green energy. 
Previously, I have limited my findings to just United States, on how we are progressing in terms of finding a new resource for our energy demand. Drawing myself out of the situation, and looking at a bigger picture, I realized that the development of renewable energy has been persistent, although remained largely behind the scene. Many countries are using alternative energy source, such as renewable energy to provide electricity as much as possible. Despite the limitations I researched on for the last paper, I managed to find equal amount of variety in scientist trying to beat the odds. The investment may have declined in comparison to the past few years, but we cannot deny that the leap from 39. 5 billion USD to 214. 4 billion USD from 2004 till 2013 is not a significant value to consider ( Zervous, 2014). 
In order to prove that the renewable energy challenge is continuous and progressing, and to prove that a lot of people are aware of its importance, we have to look into the published summary on the current standing of renewable energy. This summary will also include the global initiative taken by all the different countries around the world, mainly the advanced countries. 
Firstly, we shall be looking at the European Union. According to Zervous (2014), 
In the European Union, renewables represented the majority of new electric generating capacity for the sixth consecutive year. The 72% share in 2013 is in stark contrast to a decade earlier, when conventional fossil generation accounted for 80% of new capacity in the EU-27 plus Norway and Switzerland. Even as global investment in solar PV declined nearly 22% relative to 2012, new capacity installations increased by about 32%. 
Next, China managed to surpassed new fossil fuel and nuclear capacity using renewable energy. Besides that, variable renewables achieved high levels of penetration in several countries. For example, throughout 2013, wind power met 33.2% of electricity demand in Denmark and 20.9% in Spain; in Italy, solar PV met 7.8% of total annual electricity demand. Probably the most remarkable progress will be from Denmark, as they banned the use of fossil fuel-fired boilers in new buildings as of 2013 and aims for renewables to provide almost 40% of total heat supply by 2020. Growing numbers of cities, states, and regions seek to transition to 100% renewable energy in either individual sectors or economy-wide. For example, Djibouti, Scotland, and the small-island state of Tuvalu aim to derive 100% of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020. Among those who have already achieved their goals are about 20 million Germans who live in so-called 100% renewable energy regions (Zervous, 2014). 
Conclusion 
I stand on the grounds that renewable energy is progressing, instead of declining. I believe that even with the vast amount of limitations and obstacles, renewable energy will persistently move forward into solving the future energy challenge. I also refute that the public is not taking enough efforts into making renewable energy feasible in the long run. I believe that a lot of efforts are put into making progress in renewable energy technology into a reliable source of energy in the future. 
[Type text]0[Type text]0[Type text] 
TACKLING FUTURE ENERGY CHALLENGE 03 
Running Head: TACKLING FUTURE ENERGY CHALLENGE 	1 
