Argumentative Essay Draft #3 
April 27, 2016 
Argumentative Essay 
	Through this essay I want to convey how important it is for people from the rural areas to stop moving to the cities and continue living where they are. I don't say this cause I'm from a city and don't want people moving here. I want India to develop as a whole unit. I strongly believe that efforts made by people in the rural areas will bring about development. These people who move to the cities tend to be the more capable than the others. This quality ensures that they get a job in the city. 
	A major reason people should not move to the cities is the bad living conditions. People moving to the urban areas from the rural parts end up staying in slums due to their low income and budget. The facilities here are really bad. The drainage in the area is not too good, the methods of waste disposal are not too impressive, the drinking water isn't good enough. All these factors lead to a rise in the number of contagious diseases in the area. The people in this area don't have access to good doctors here. The doctors who cater to this area are not specialists in their field. They have earnt their degrees from local colleges. Due to their lack of expertise they don't end up detecting the disease their patient suffers or when they do, don't give the right cure. These diseases spread like forest fire and leave a lot of people at risk of dying. Mohapatra (2012) tells us that the investments made under slum improvement programs are mishandled in the post-project phase which leads to depleting infrastructures. This includes "non-functional" mobile toilet vans, choked drainage of sewerage and inadequate supply of water. The toilets are not cleaned properly and are not fit for use by women. Some toilets are in such bad condition that they are rendered useless which causes the dwellers to defecate outside. Also the houses are not made with non inflammable material which puts it at a high risk of setting on fire. A lot of health programs are initiated in these areas but officials don't regulate them because they don't trust the slum dwellers to take imitative, also they don't want to give up their power. A study by Khopkar (2014) tells how the growth of the kids living in the slums in stunted. The data collected was compared to the Indian reference and the WHO's database. It was found that the malnourishment effected boys more than the girls. The various factors effecting the readings were income, mother's education, household size, and dietary intake. A mother's education was highly significantly associated with both stunting and thinness in both sexes. Household size and income were significantly associated with the nutritional status of girls. 
	The second issue is the change in climatic conditions caused due the excessive pollution in the city. The harmful gases in the air are the cause for the change. They lead to global warming. Global warming is increase in the temperature of the earth. This occurs because the radiations of the sun that were absorbed by the earth are not able to escape its atmosphere. The increasing temperature leads to the change in the pattern of the rain in the area. Uneven patterns of rain cause them to become unreliable. This makes it difficult to use rain water freely for the for consumption and other purposes. These drastic weather changes could also lead to a famine in the area which causes a lot of deaths. In Rao (2003) we find out how the number of cars has increased 16 times for the rice in population of 1. 6 times, this has radically changed the purity of air. Fumes from garbage pits add to the rising temperatures and the deteriorating air quality. Through their study Rishi and Khuntia (2012) tell us that high level of stress was perceived and its major reasons were found to be noise, waste accumulation, polluted air with smoke, and unhealthy environment in slums. According to Balakrishnan (2011) environmental and occupational risk factors contribute to nearly 40% of the national burden of disease in India. 
	The cost of living in the cities is very high. This keeps on rising with the increasing demand of products. Population increase in the cities is a major cause of inflation. These expenses can not be handled by all. The people have to struggle more to provide for their family. Due to which they end up spending more time at work and less time with their families. Their young kids end up growing up by themselves. They might end up picking up wrong habits which is not very good for the society. The parents of the kids can not do much to help their kids and feel very helpless. I found out this from my interview with my maid. The movement of people from the rural areas increases the demand of goods in the cities which leads to increase in the prices of this goods. This is how economic inflation is caused. Inflation leads to decline in the economy of the country which stunts the growth and retards the development of the country. 
	Most people move to the cities as the rural areas are not as developed. They don't want to stay back and initiate growth but just choose to take the easier path. The people left behind in the rural area are old people and lazy people. These people can not do much to improve the situation of the area. In his article Audichya, S. (2014) tells us about the challenges to start a business in the villages of India. Most of the rural entrepreneurs face peculiar problems like lack of funds, fraudulent activities of the middleman, illiteracy, fear of risk, lack of training and experience, limited purchasing power, lack of technical and infrastructural facilities, negative attitude and competition from urban entrepreneurs. I think that the people from the rural areas should continue living there to bring about improvement in the cities as this will bring about the all around development of India. This would be the last step for making India a developed country from a developing country. 
Audichya, S. (2014). Rural entrepreneurship in India: problems and challenges. International	Journal of Retailing & Rural Business Perspectives, 3(4), 1315-1318. 
Balakrishnan, K. (2011, January). Integrated urban-rural frameworks for air pollution and 
health-related research in India: The way forward. Environmental Health Perspectives, 119(1), A12-3. 
Khopkar, S. (2014). Anthropometric Characteristics of Underprivileged Adolescents: A Study	from Urban Slums of India. Journal of Anthropology. 
Mohapatra, S. (2012, May). Assessing differential health vulnerability of the slums in 	 
Chandigarh (India). Internationales Asien Forum. International Quarterly for Asian 
Studies, volume 43, pp. 81-98. 
Rao, G.S.P. (2003, October). Effects of urbanization on meteorological parameters. Mausum. 
Rishi P. & Khuntia G. (2012). Urban Environmental Stress and Behavioral Adaptation in Bhopal	 
City of India. Urban Studies Research. 
Shanti. (2016, March). Personal phone interview. 
