P5d1 
November 18, 2015 
The Consequences of Trump's Immigration Proposals 
The United States of America through out its history has been a hard working, innovative, and growing nation from which many look up to as an example. In a world where the population is growing and the need for jobs increases, many look for a better future by being part of what the US represents. Being an international student from <place> at Purdue University, I decided to expand my horizons and be part of an educational system of a country that has showed great success in the past and present. As times are getting harder, the next presidential elections are upon us and many are wondering which candidate can offer them the greatest future imaginable. One of the presidential candidates for the Republican Campaign is a business magnate Donald Trump. He has brought a lot of attention to himself due to his extremist positions on immigration. Some questions that have been brought upon are the following: what would happen if the US deported all 11 million undocumented immigrants? What would this result to the economy? Should a wall be built on the southern border to improve the security? This is a very interesting topic for me being an international since in my opinion; foreign attribution to the country has made it the economic and political power it is today. 
	Donald Trump claims that a reason why people are unemployed is because the undocumented immigrants are taking away their jobs. This is easy to say but really hard to prove since it is not accurate at all. Experts on the Topic such as Diana Furchtgott-Roth have denied these assumptions about immigrants being a factor in the US economic problems1. The vas majority of the people that come from the southern border or from other parts of the world are looking for a greater future, this means that they are willing to work to improve their lifestyle. So when people come to the US they are willing to do any job, this means arduous work on the fields where not many Americans apply for a job there. So the jobs that the immigrants take sometimes are even complementary to American business since many agricultural companies require of the employment of immigrants to work their fields to feed the rest of the country. 
	After the US acquired the southern states that were previously owned by Mexico, peace and a growing relationship has been created between two countries that were at one-point enemies. The relationship between these countries has had mutual benefits for both in many aspects that have resolved to form to economies with potential growth. So when Donald Trump proposes to build a wall that would be financed by the Mexican government, the relationship between these two countries would suffer a great hit. First of all, Mexican politicians would not be willing to pay for a wall that would protect another country's border. Trump then continued on by saying that those that would not follow his proposals would suffer the consequences. For Mexico this may be a consequence of being boycotted, which can create a great deal of resentment. It has been more than half a century now and relations between the US and Cuba are starting to improve. So many things can go wrong with this proposal and they are to be considered when thinking about it. 
	When thinking about more than 11 million people being deported from a country, one should start by looking it at different aspects. In a financial aspect, Trump would need to hire a lot of officers to do this job. Also the transportation of the 11 million would cost a fortune. This will cost the US billions of dollars in taxpayer's money and I believe that more than half of those taxpayers would not want their money to be used in that way. Also, there is an ethical aspect in which one should relate to. Countries that have pointed out minorities and collected them and transported have not had a great image in the past. For example, Germany searched house by house for the Jewish and then relocated them. This type of persecution would be needed to find all of the undocumented immigrants. I believe that is not the image the United States of America wants to portray. 
	Donald Trump actually made a strong contribution to the presidential elections by increasing the focus on Immigration. There are a lot of aspects that need to be reformed to create a more controlled system. The fact is, it is really hard to get a US citizenship and many try to cut corners. By cutting corners, this means breaking the law. There has to be some sort of punishment or fine these people have to pay to make sure people are restrained from doing it. Also, Trump is actually a really good businessman that can have strong contributions to the US economies. Some of his ideas and politics can have a positive effect on the country. He is known for good negotiations and that is someone that the people of the United States would like to have while they are negotiating with foreign countries. 
	In conclusion, even though Trump is capable of being a president and that there is a need for adjustments in Immigration, the advances being done by Trump is not the correct one. One should consider the actual effect immigration has on the US economies and how it actually increases business opportunity. Also, the impact of creating a wall can potentially destroy the growing relationship between two countries. Finally, deporting 11 million people is financially and ethically detrimental to the US standards. Following these, I can conclude that Trump should revise his proposals so that they can be more reasonable to the public and so the lives of many are not put at risk. 
1 http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/2014/11/19/Facts-You-Should-Know-About-Illegal-Immigration-INFOGRAPHIC 
