Taking non major-related jobs is possible for graduates 
	Many graduate students are confusing about their future career, because they don't know which option is better, taking major related jobs or non-major related jobs. Some people consider that students could only take the major related jobs, so that they won't waste their four years' effort at collage. But actually, only 27% percent of student are taking the major related jobs. (Plumer, B) The reason why the majorities of the students having the non-major relating job are that these jobs have low requirements for them; students could also expand their horizons of life experience; and there would be less completion for the non-major related jobs. 
	Some of college students may planning to take part time jobs I their spare time, but they don't haven't graduated, so the non-major related part time jobs become their first option. In a survey done by Ya Rong Huang, (Huang, 2012), many responders wrote the reasons that why they choosing non-major related jobs. The most common answer was the requirement of non-major jobs were lower the major related ones. Because most of them are full time college students, which don't have enough degree for applying high salary jobs. However, those non-major related jobs such as part time jobs or blue collar works, are more well come because of low requirements. Even though students get bored about their current jobs, they could quit them anytime they want and find new one. For the major related jobs, they not only need high degree but also full of high risk of competition from others. 
	Taking non-major related jobs could offer students new seems and views that they've never experienced before. The job hopping rate is high in the U.S, according to Gray, Althen, in average, Americans would take 13 to 15 different jobs before age of thirty-eight. (Gray, Althen, 2012). From this data, it could conclude that the most of Americans are willing to try new things. And this was also confirmed by my interview subject. My interview subject, Scott Vana is a current students' advisor at Purdue. In the interview, he said that he had engaged at least ten different jobs, and most of the jobs were totally different from others. After he graduated from finance major, he was confused about his future path, he didn't know what to do at that time. At first, he took some jobs at restaurant, such as restaurant manager. "that was an easy job," said by Scott, "I didn't expect that I did the jobs which was unrelated to my major, but that job wasn't hard." Soon, he moved to new place and got married, and this time he worked as a finance teacher in community college. Scott said: "This was the only work I had done that related to my majors." What he felt from all these different jobs was not only the skills to deal with problems during working time, but also the skill to deal with relations between colleague. He said when he taking the different jobs, he considered them as challenges, and he would try his best to do with it, whether they were related to his major	 
	The competition in the job market is brutal, but if students taking the non-major matching jobs could have less risk for getting fired in companies. The salaries would rise up if the matching degree between jobs and majors go up, but the competition for the people who applying these jobs would be more intense as well. (Huang, 2012) Because most of people who apply these jobs might have the high diploma of the major that related to this job. And they may really want a nice job with good paid, but only few of them could get this position. If students looking for the jobs which have lower connection of their majors, the intense would also be lower. This is very helpful for new graduates, because they lack of working experience and the skills to handling hard problems. 
	But taking non-major related jobs may also have some drawbacks. On one hand, people may think that their four years' effort in college are wasted, on the other hand, taking jobs in new fields could be a challenge for students. If they don't pay attention or working hard on their position, they would be fired soon. Even though there are many challenges and troubles on taking non-major related jobs, students could still overcome them. For example, when Scott taking the new jobs, he usually focuses on the instructors' words and takes notes for the important points of the jobs. With the enough preparation, he definitely will do better then others. 
	In conclusion, I prefer taking the non-major related jobs then taking major related jobs. We shouldn't be bounded by one place, life is short, so we should try new things and see new views. By meeting different people and visiting new places, which could enrich our mental world. And it is not hard to start taking non-major related jobs, as long as we are willing to spend enough time on working. So taking non-major related jobs has more benefits than taking major related jobs. 
Reference 
Huang, Y. (2007). Relatedness between jobs and academic majors: Its relationship to academic involvement of college students. International Journal for Educational and Vocational Guidance, 7(2), 111-122. 
Robst. J, (2006). Education and Job match: The relatedness of college major and work. Science Direct 
Plumer. B, (2013). Only 17 percent of college grads have s job related to their major. The Washington Post 
Althen, G. (2011) American ways Intercultural press, (226-227) 
Casselman, B. (2015). Enough Already About The Job-Hopping Mikkennials. Five Thirty Eight. 
