Argumentative Paper, Draft 1 
Engl10600i 
4/2/2016 
Is Computer Science Technology Changing the Third World? 
Speaking of computer science, the first people have in their mind is probably their fancy smartphone and laptop, and those who study the computer science is mostly likely to be a programmer in the future. However, that's not entirely true. Computer science is the study of the design and operation of computer hardware and software, and the application of computer technology to science, and business. (Mifflin, 2002) In other words, computer science is all about to find and create the methods for computer to use. 
Computer science has completely changed our way of life since the last decade, mostly by providing high- technology devices. We can get all kind of information like weather report, bus schedule, even academic problems in most fields on our computer or phone. And sending emails or surf the Internet becomes what we all do every day. Computer science has brought so much change and convenience to the modern world. 
But how about the third world? Some people think the computer science only help people in the developed countries but not everyone on this planet, so they appeal the government to put more support and financial aid to other fields like medicine and agriculture. But in my opinion, computer science is definitely changing the third world, and the impact it makes is huge. 
First of all, I want to point out the most common reason which makes many people against my side: The third world always has poor living condition, and one of the major problems is poverty. The people there won't benefit from computer science if they can't afford such high-level technology. 
I admit that the economic situation in the third world is really far behind, but in fact people there can still afford to reach their hands to the devices which use computer science technology. During my interview with professor <name> I acknowledged that due to the rapid development of computer science, those out dated electronic device start becoming worthless. If you search "cheap computer" on the Amazon, you will find out those desktops from 10 years ago only sold around 50 dollars. The device third world can use is very far behind and limited compared to us, but you cannot deny that they do have the access to the technology. 
So how exactly is computer changing the third world? I want start with talking about the starvation. Computer science has a huge impact on solving the starvation in the third world. In my environment science class, I have learned that the cause of starvation is not the lack of food, but the poor distribution. The government have plenty of food from their farm and the help from other countries, but they don't have the ability to allocate it properly because of the limited transportation. And the people there don't have the information about where to get food. But this starts changing when the Internet becomes available. Nowadays more and more people are able to check where is the nearest food allocation station and even how to get there through the Internet, which means the distribution inequality is getting smaller and smaller. It's only a matter of time for everyone to get enough food and overcome the starvation. 
Besides the starvation, sanitation situation is also changed by the computer science. According to professor <name> the dirty water and lack of medical attention are the two major cause of bad sanitation. But just like the food, there are clean water and hospitals. People will know where to find them with the information computer science provides. What's more, the information also helps people to be aware of the power of medicine and the danger of drinking unclean water, which can decrease the spread and the death rate of diseases. 
Surprisingly, getting sanitation right can have a positive effect on economic growth. Improved sanitation in developing countries typically yields about USD $9 worth of economic benefit for every USD $1 spent, an impressive ratio. The benefits include saving time, reducing direct and indirect health costs, increasing the return on investments in education, and safeguarding water resources. (Branham, 2012). In other words, the improving in the sanitation will also contribute a lot to solve the poverty and increase the quality of people's lifes. 
Not only the living condition, the democracy also has a huge progress. Like I mentioned in the interview report, the majority of the people in the third world used to do nothing with their politics because of the corruption and dire living condition. But now with the Internet, online voting becomes a new possibility for the public to participate into important events like election and revise of certain policy. It's undoubtable that there is still a long way to fight against corruption and conquer all the major living problems, but as long as most of the population are a part of the politics, the government will eventually represent the people's voice and achieve true democracy. 
However, some people may still argue that people in the third world don't have the ability to use those devices due to the poor education, but it is wrong. In fact, in South Africa, the cellphone ownership surged from 33 per cents to almost 90 per cents in the last decades. Text and phone call was already the most popular activity and several countries even have already started popularizing the mobile money. (Pew Research Center, 2015). This clearly shows that people there understand the basic function of the cell phone and is able to apply them into the daily life. With such high percent of ownership, how to use a cell phone becomes a common knowledge rather than a matter of education. In other words, the argument that people can't use computer science based device is wrong. 
In conclusion, with more and more cellphones and personal computers reach the hands of people in the third world, computer science's role in changing the third world is more and more important. It's accelerating the progress of solving major living problem like starvation and sanitation, boost the economy and push the third world towards the democracy as well. Now I strongly believe that the computer science technology is not only changing our way of life, but also helping those who is suffering. Computer science is changing the third world. 
Reference 
Pew Research Center (Apr.15, 2015) Cell Phone in South Africa: Communication Lifeline. Retrieved from: http://www.pewglobal.org/2015/04/15/cell-phones-in-africa-communication-lifeline/ 
Houghton M (2002) The American Heritage Science Dictionary. Retrieved from: 
http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/computer-science 
Lindsay B (Oct.11, 2012) Introduction to the crisis of clean water & sanitation. Retrieved from: 
https://www.globalcitizen.org/en/content/introduction-to-the-crisis-of-clean-water-sanitati/ 
