P5 d1 
4/10/16 
Appreciation of Chinese Calligraphy Art 
As it is known, art and especially calligraphy art, always conveys the rich history of the culture and culture practice. Meanwhile, as it is also known, the subtlety and the obscurity are wildly served as the uniqueness of Eastern art, and the Chinese calligraphy art falls in not as an exception. However, the question behind raise along with the complicity and the obscurity, does it mean that the Chinese calligraphy art is not a universally appreciable? 
Firstly, calligraphy art is no different from any other sort of art. Appreciating it is to appreciate beauty. Like painting and photographing, not knowing the story behind it maybe a way for one to truly appreciate the patterns and the handwritings. Sometimes the story will get to interfere with one's judgment about the true quality of handwriting it along although the it may indicate the value. When a picture is poorly framed, the fact that it is not a well-taken picture in terms of appreciating photography would not be eliminated by any fancy story behind it. In a nutshell, appreciating Chinese calligraphy is like any other kind of art, a visual feast. Sometimes what we should do in order to really feeling a piece of art is to let go other interferences and be drenched into beauty of itself along. 
Secondly, other culture also enjoyed a complicated form of art as well. Chinese calligraphy art is not the only system that its beauty is attributed of both structures and philosophy. No need to mention the prolonged history of European calligraphy ever since medieval time, the Indi scripts, fascinating Arabic scripts and etc. These cultures are all embedded with astonish calligraphy art, and though it maybe different in ways for every single culture to interpret them, every culture is devoted into appreciating calligraphy. Therefore, I believe, calligraphy as a universally appreciated art itself definitely has some shared impact on various regions and consequently, so does Chinese calligraphy art. 
Thirdly, no one is born to be good at appreciating, even the knowledge about the culture one grown up with himself is acquired by learning. In another way, it's not a matter of the east or the west, it's a matter of getting familiar to the culture. There are countless examples of success in learning a different culture and cultural practices. The easterners are learning the west culture; the westerners learn from the east, people are always learning. Cultural related courses nowadays are wildly provided in colleges and other institutions, it seems to be way easier getting access to practically mundane cultural influences than ever. 
Someone may question that as an alien to a certain cultural group, due to the lack of periodical influences of the completed cultural practices, one may never be as good as a native about cultural matters. Well, it's true that alien may never be as good as natives, but that doesn't seem to be a problem of appreciating. While one appreciating, he is also learning. Whether one reaches a level of natives or not doesn't necessarily interferes with the process of learning. Besides, not reaching a level of natives do not indicate that one can't not appreciate the beauty of it since beauty is fundamentally universal. Others may concern that one might even be quite familiar with certain culture, but the appreciation may be interfered with other different cultural influence that one may carried himself thus misleading the original information that an art work may try to express. This concern is reasonable, yet misunderstands the true meaning of appreciating. There's no so-called original information, anything shown is interpreted, by others or maybe by one oneself. Appreciating is not evaluating. The goal of appreciating is to feel the beauty and the thoughts behind a piece of art work. There's no objective right or wrong about appreciation on a subjective concept - beauty. 
After addressing these statements above has made the point straightly clear - Despite the fact that indeed the differences among cultures exist, Chinese calligraphy art has the universal appreciablility as one of its feature. Its identity as a form of art, calligraphy as shared form in every culture and the access of learning are all factors contribute for it. 
Thus, what we should do in front of a piece of art is to be emerged and let go. 
