Argumentative Essay Draft #1 
11/2/15 
A Repeat of What Happened Before 
-From 1997-2015 
	Stock market is something gained more attention from people nowadays as it is an important way for people to earn money. Some people speculate on the market, some play it with skills and inside information. All of them expected to earn money from it especially in 2014 and the beginning of 2015 as there was a bull market at that time-the price of stocks kept rising, and it went into a really high place. However, a big crash happened suddenly that the price of nearly all the stocks fell down so quickly. Money evaporated with bubbles imploding, and people lost a huge amount of money in the stock market. This catastrophe drew my attention, so I decided to dig deeper to find out the essence of this Great Fall. I had research on how and why it happened, what we need to do next, and what government acted in this crash. But most importantly, I would like to find out whether it is a repeat of what happened before-the Asian Crisis in 1997 and the Financial Crisis in 2008. In this case, I can figure out how history repeat itself and may come out some idea that what we need to do in the future. 
	It has been 18 years from 1997-long enough for people believe that time has floated everything that happened that time. Some may believe that this Great Fall happened in 2015 is because the long red bull market before-the price of the stocks kept rising for a long time and achieved a incredibly high place before the crash of the stock market. Also, some indicates that the crisis in 1997 has been well learned as the currency float freely now rather than being highly controlled (Economist, Aug 2015). However, though it is true that this crisis was about the price going back to the initial price, the crisis happened in 1997 and 2008 does influence the Great Fall in 2015. After stimulated by $585 billion from the United State crash in 2008, it seemed that China didn't injured much. However, it was only a matter of time. People should not be too optimistic as China still needs time to recover from any attack (Walden B, 2015). 
	Comparing the process of these three crisis that closely related to China, we can easily find out many similar things. Neither Chinese government, nor investors have been prepared before these three crashes. Both the Asian Crisis in 1997 and the Great Fall in 2015 began with the devaluation of the currency and then expend to the international market. All of them happened after a long bull market-the price kept rising and achieved an incredibly high place, and then the price suddenly fell down which makes people trapped in a panic and sold their stocks insanely. 
	Government always act an important place in Chinese stock market. As pointed by <name>, Chinese stock market is highly controlled by the government. Just like before in 1997 and 2008, investors from other countries still cannot get equal right in China. This prevent the stock market in China goes out to the international market thoroughly. <name> also illustrated that Chinese government didn't constructed a complete set of rules and regulations for the stock market. In this case, the stock market runs in a mass and the government has to jumped into the market to pull back the price of the stocks after this crash. The government did a lot and was blamed a lot, and they didn't improved a lot in this aspect. Among these three big crashes that related closely to China, we can easily see that the government should let the market runs itself and build complete law and regulations for it. Moreover, more channels for people to put money in must be built as the channels didn't increased much since 1997 while people are much richer than before. Too much money being put into the stock market must cost a lot of bubbles of the market which are really easily to burst. 
	No matter how long the time went by, history always repeat itself. It is not precisely to say that the Great Fall happened in 2015 is a duplication of the Asian Crisis in 1997. But we can easily see their relationship and how the Asian Crisis and the Financial Crisis influence this crash in stock market. China has been influenced a lot after those two crisis in 1997 and 2008 even though this didn't show much at that time. Also the processes are similar and government didn't change much. With the fast development nowadays, maybe it is really necessary to look back and learn from the history. 
