25 November 2015 
Stagnation or progress: Dilemma in Korean military system 
	On June 25th, 1950, historically big incident happened by the general named General Kim Il-Sung. North Korea invaded major cities of South Korea to take over the whole control of the whole nation. This war is called the Korean War. At that time, South Korea had to escape down to Busan, which is the very down southern city of South Korea. However, as well known to most of the people, General Douglas Mac Arthur, the hero of both the United States and the South Korea, saved South Korea from the big danger and helped them to recover its nation throughout Seoul, the current capital of the South Korea. 
	The recent policies about the Korean army system now require the soldiers to pay to do their laundries and also increased the price for the cigarettes. These kinds of policies are also pressuring the soldiers and now the issues about the Korean army system are now being spotlighted by the whole world. The whole world is paying attention to the issues in South Korea because the South Korea is the entrance to the Asian culture. The reason why the United States helped South Korea during Korean War is the same reason. If South Korea got fully invaded and became a communist country, the situations for nowadays' global issues about Democratic and Communism would be totally different. 
Not only the world stage but also the feminism perspective is paying attention to these issues. The trend for the females who agree to the decrease of the military service and improving the army circumstances is getting higher. On one side, In Sook Kwon, the author of 'A feminist exploration of military conscription: The gendering of the connections between Nationalism, Militarism and Citizenship in South Korea', tells that the nature of the South Korean military is naturally thought of masculine thing and therefore it has a little thing to do with women. By seeing South Korean army as a male job gives meaning to be a South Korean and this is an implicit truth. Therefore, women have to play the roles other than the opposite gender's role, the manly job. However, this truth has been changing gradually and that the perspective from women's side is gaining more and more power as the time passes. 
	Interestingly, despite of all the claims that we should build our 'own' army, the current Korean military facts show that we are depending too much of our responsibility on the United States. In fact, U.S. is spending more money than the South Korean government in the South Korean army. This must be shocking, since it means that South Korea has a long way to go to be totally independent against North Korea in terms of armed force. Everybody thinks that without United States, South Korea would be easily conquered by North Korea or even by China or Japan except Japan cannot initiate anymore after the World War II. The problem is not merely about the financial terms. United States citizens started to display their worries in country secrets being unwillingly transparent and being showed to the whole world through South Korea. Since South Korea and United States are allies, United States ought to share the certain portion of the army top secrets with South Korea in order to be more intimate and build faith between them. Moreover, South Korean civilians worry about the growing influence of the United States in their everyday. Whenever the United States want to, they would withdraw their forces from South Korea and South Korea would be facing all sorts of threats in face immediately. According to <name>, on the other hand opinion, the only reason that the United States army has been in South Korea is to give South Korean army the full autonomy, and the worries in current stage is very natural. The process for the full independence is still progressing and near future, South Korea would be fully independent. Of course, most of the citizens in both South Korea and United States do not agree with this claim. Even if the cause is to be right, the problems on the surface look too serious to be ignored. The opposing people claim that it is now the time that U.S. army force should leave South Korea to achieve what they have thrived for. This issue should not be any simple, and both nations should be as much considerate as possible. It does not have to be excessive and make U.S. leave instantly, but the direction of the policies should be definitely heading towards it, which is vague in current point. 
	The indicators that South Korea is collapsing in its inner system are getting prominent as the issues come out abruptly and rapidly. According to the recent research, the trend of the total suicidal rate in South Korea is increasing gradually, but steadily. In detail, among the OECD countries, South Korea has the highest suicidal rate among every other country, which is 29. 1 for every hundred thousand people. According to Kirk's claim, in reality, South Korea is being threatened rather by inside their system, neither by North Korea nor United States. Especially in military system, South Korea is pressuring and dragging them to the tragedy. This is a heads-up issue and they should definitely pay special attention and try their best to solve this issue as soon as possible because as this issue stays as a complication to the nation, the more collapsing result it would cause towards the country. There are various factors that pressure the soldiers in army, and some of which are sexual torture, constant bullying, physical torture, comparatively long period of serving which is 21 months, the fact that they have to go back to the normal life and do all the works again to get to the normal life cycle. There are definitely many other factors than these, but these are the most prominent factors. 
	The most realistic evidence that proves the current soldiers in South Korean army is being mistreated is that the little benefits they get despite of their hard works. According to <name>, who used to serve in the United States army and also have been to South Korea, South Korean soldiers get none of the benefits such as the education support or the house funding. Without any further benefits such as things displayed above, there would be absolutely no way to solve the current issues. In fact, most of the South Korean soldiers complain about their current situations and try to avoid the service if possible. There was a big issue by the musician named MC Mong, since he tried to avoid the military service by pulling out his tooth out. In a law according to the military service, it says that if one has less tooth than the minimal, than he is free of the responsibility of the service. After this issue was pulled out, MC Mong was unable to do any of his works such as music and other things for several years because the public would not allow him anymore. Like this, military service is one of the most sensitive issues in South Korea. The problem is that more and more people are trying various methods to get out of the military service responsibility. Not only the benefits are being problem, but the salary itself also a huge issue. According to the research, in average, the soldiers get 150 dollars per month for 21 months. And surprisingly, this amount is 3.8% increased comparing to the previous year. It is such a tragedy that the current soldiers are being treated in such manners. South Korean government should pay attention to this issue as soon as possible and come up with the best suiting political and legal improvement. 
	It is the soldiers who save people from danger when emergency situations happen, or even the war happens. South Korea is now in a forked road and they have to pick one: either stagnation or progress. It is not hundred percent sure that if changing the policies would make every situations better, but it is definitely worth trying because the current policies are such nonsense. Soldiers are doing the hardest jobs, but also being treated the hardest among every other job. Soldier used to be a popular job among the children and most of the high school students during 1980s, but after the nature of the army turned to harsh and demanding background, the popularity decreased greatly. This is also a clear indicator that something wrong happened inside the military that made the people turned their back away from it. Now is definitely the right time to change: Make the soldiers happier, the nation happier. 
Citation 
Warner, Geoffrey. "International Affairs." The Korean War. Vol. 56(1). Wiley, 1. 98-107. Print. 
Ramstad, Evan. World News: North Korea Leader Says Military Is Priority (2012). Pro Quest. Evan Ramstad. Web. 18 Sept. 
2015. http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/docview/1490591956? Open Url Ref Id=info: xri/sid: primo&accountid=13360 
Kwon, In Sook. A Feminist Exploration of Military Conscription: The Gendering of the Connections Between Nationalism, Militarism and Citizenship in South Korea. (2001). EBSCOhost. Insook, Kwon. Web. 18 Sept. 2015. 
Strother, Jason, ed. In South Korea, a Student Battles Against Compulsory Military Service; Conscientious Objector Appealing Jail Sentence Cites Change in Public Opinion (2014). Pro Quest. Jason Strother. Web. 16 Sept. 2015. <In South Korea, a Student Battles Against Compulsory Military Service; Conscientious Objector Appealing Jail Sentence Cites Change in Public Opinion>. 
Lee, Bong. The Unfinished War Korea. New York: Algora Pub., 2003. Print. 
