Zixuan Liu (sam) 
November 30, 2015 
The Temporal Lobe Theory about D j vu 
D j vu is a curious phenomenon, but it happens constantly. In daily life, many people have special feelings that they are familiar with current sensation, but they may never came the places before or they did not do same things before. This feeling is caused by D j vu. Scientists have researched the reason of d j vu for many years, but they also could not get right answer. Most of the scientists support the temporal lobe theory which suggest that the temporal lobe is the main reason of d j vu. There also some scientists support other theories, such as six sense theory, spirit theory and time tunnel theory. Because of the evidence and scientifically explanation, I think the temporal lobe theory is correct. 
From the interview, I know the temporal lobe theory was found by a scientists who searched the d j vu by observing the patients of epilepsy. In the research, people who had epilepsy were easier to had d j vu than normal persons. The temporal lobe relate to memory and emotion, so if the temporal lobe damage, the memory may be disordered. The research suggest that the d j vu was caused by memory disorder. In addition the symptoms of patients who damaged their temporal lobe is balderdash, psychomotor excitement, spatial disorientation, emotional disorder, memory disturbance etc. The memory disturbance is the evidence to show the relationship between d j vu and epilepsy. The memory disturbance is a special symptom which cause patients distinguish the recently memories, the memories long ago and the present memories difficultly, because in their memories, the places and time were always absented. The patients also put some imagines in their memories which caused their memories became more blurred. The interview strongly support the temporal lobe theory. 
In the article "D j Vu in Neurology", Edward Wild mainly mentions the topic Neuroanatomy and give the evidence of the temporal lobe theory. In 20th century, the scientists found the organ which related to d j Vu was temporal lobe. Mullan and Penfield found when they were doing temporal lobe resection, the epileptic patients elicited a "dreamy state" akin to d j vu. In 1982, Gloor and colleagues used a new equipment to stimulate the organ in epileptic patients wanted to reproduce the phenomenon, but they did not succeed. In the late 20th century, Bancaud gave a new theory, he thought that neural network in the association cortex and limbic areas encodes the holistic experience of an event. In the theory, d j vu is caused by inappropriate activation of deep memory structures by superficial sensory structure. In 1999 Adachi et al. used positron tomography to study the function of temporal lobe. They compared the patients with d j vu and patients without d j vu. They found the patients who had experience about d j vu, their glucose metabolism in temporal cortex reduced. The conclusion of this finding was the temporal lobe was necessary but not sufficient for generating d j vu. The article in psychology today give the evidence of the theory of temporal lobe. 
Although many scientists believe the temporal lobe theory is the most scientific explanation, there are also some scientists propose different theories. In the article "How D j Vu Works", Lee Ann Obringer introduces other theories about d j vu. She mentions a new theory about d j vu. If people try to remember something, the brain will divided the whole picture in to small fragments. The smaller the fragments are, the fuzzier the memory is. When people meet analogous fragment, like a sign, a smell or a sound, the brain recreates picture and makes people feel familiar. Another theory is based on how brain stores long-term and short-term memories. Robert Efron proposed an theory which are also valid today,." In Efron theory, the temporal lobe which in the left brain, response to sort the memories. But temporal lobe received information twice, one direct form left brain, another from right brain. The information from right brain was delay. When delay is a little bit longer, the brain puts two information into different time period. It means people feel familiar with the sense they have just seen. The third theory tells that people get the information from other sources, such as videos, books or pictures. When people experience similar situation, they might have the experience of d j vu. These theories have their rational Interpretations but their theories do not have efficient evidences. These theories all base on hypothesis, the scientists use these theories to explain the phenomenon of d j vu. The explanations sound like reasonable, but scientists do not have enough experiments or data to prove their theories. So I prefer to support the temporal lobe theory. 
In the article "The Psychology of.D j vu", Joshua Foer introduces the d j vu was classified in d j entendu (already heard), d j senti (already smelled), d j lu (already read), and d j v cu (already lived). In the past, when d j vu was just found, many psychologists began the researches about d j vu, but they gradually found that d j vu only happened in a second without obvious behaviors. It was difficult for them to do enough observations. That caused many unscientific theories occur. In order to find the real theory of d j vu, an experiment of d j vu was set up by O'Connor. In the experiment, the researchers put subjects in a soundproof room and hypnotized them. The computer read 20 words, some of them were normal, others were abnormal. After a while, the subjects woke up and saw those 20 words, nearly 40 percent of the subjects say they feel d j vu. There is also another experiment. Two professor, Brown worked in Southern Methodist University and Elizabeth Marsh worked in Duke University, made an experiment, they showed their students pictures which were taken at the other professor's campus. After three weeks, they show some of the pictures to those students, many students said they seemed to go to the campus before, but they have never gone there. This is the the phenomenon of d j vu, the experiment showed nearly 89 percent of students had the feeling of d j vu. The two experiments used different ways to show that d j vu was really exist, not because of sixth sense or other outer factors, but related to the organ in the brain. The article denies other theories and proves the temporal lobe theory. 
D j vu is a really remarkable phenomenon. Many scientists do the research about d j vu to find appropriate explanations. Although there are many theories about d j vu, I only support the temporal lobe theory. Because the theory not only have many scientific explanation, but also have been proven by many experiments. So the temporal lobe theory is more scientific and credible. 
