Proper use of smartphones in class 
The phenomenon that the more and more professors and instructors in colleges and universities tend to use mobile devices in class as a new education breakthrough for learning and surveys, that has aroused a heated discussion on the both coin sides. The opposite voice from Professors seldom using mobile phones, especially those who are elderly negative to modern technology, they hold the position that the use of smartphones should definitely be banned in class. However, another voice considering the significant role that smartphones play in people's daily lives, stands up for that professors should allow students to use smartphones under the control of the smartphones policies, doing things related to class like searching for the information needed and participating in-class activities. 
In-class activities with smartphones led by professors will enable students to pay more attention to the contents in the lecture than texts and social applications on their mobile phones. With the help of smartphones, it is more convenient for professor to go through the process and for students to retrieve the information demanded. Professor James B Hylton allows his students to use mobile phones during class only when he asks them to. In class Engineering 131, for example, students do a lot of activities. These activities require students to find all kinds of information or news related to class, and sometimes the activities enable the students to figure out how to solve some complex problems. Having phones available in class gives students an easy access to the information. Similarly, in the class Mechanical Engineering 270, when Professor Hylton let the students deal with some questions which students need some other knowledge to work them out, he will permit them to look those needed information up on their smartphones. Besides, the smartphones help students to focus on the contents about the class through the process of the researching. As we all know, when a person want to research something in a short time, his brain will be filled with the thoughts about contents of the class, which can help students much easier to be absorbed in the class and understand the words said by professors. 
However, smartphones still have the negative effect on the study of students in the classroom. If professors do not give the limitation about the using of smartphones, students can do a lot of things that they will be unable to focus on their study. One of the surveys done by Hingorani, Woodard, and Askari-Danesh showed smartphones could sometimes be negative and distractive. The surveys stated that all the students in Alabama State University have cell phones and 79.9% of them have smartphones, which are able to provide far more dynamic and convenient functions such as having an active account on Facebook and Twitter and gaming in addition to texting and making phone calls. Hingorani, Woodard, and Askari-Danesh claimed that that it is impossible to pay attention to a lecture and use a smartphone at the same time. Without limiting the use of the smartphones, students can check the Facebook and Twitter and chat with others by texting that all make a big distraction on study. The researchers also found that there was a high rate of cell phones used in classroom: 84.3% of the students used mobile phones in class and more than half of them received texts in spite of the policy published by the university that no cell phones are allowed in classroom. 
In order to prevent the distraction, setting up classroom policies can minimize the negative impact of the smartphones, keeping students away from the disturbance of mobile devices, focusing on study. According to Meigan Robb and Dr. Shellenbarger from Indiana University, before implementing any cell phone activities, they decided it was essential to create a cell phone classroom policy that communicates clear guidelines regarding appropriate use. Establishing clear policies can help to determine whether are potential inappropriate uses of cell phones during class time. The following words appeared on their syllabi: ''Periodically in this course you will be asked to use your cell phone for learning activities. As a courtesy to others, please turn ringers off and use your cell phone at appropriate class times.'' They believed this statement provides classroom structure and clear boundaries regarding cell phone use and warn students against inappropriate use of technology in the classroom. According to all these statements above, using appropriate punishments to prevent the students from using the smartphones inappropriately can successfully increasing the teaching efficiency. As long as the students do not use their phones on things that are not related to the class, it is ok to use their smartphones in class. 
Smartphones are becoming one of the essential parts in students' daily life. In spite of the benefits like closer connection and more diverse ways of work and study, mobile phones are also becoming one of the distractions of students when they are learning. Numerous contents on the phone such as continuously messages and updated events on Facebook and Twitter interfere students with what professors are talking about in the lectures. However, proper use of smartphones in class will do advantages to students' learning and study, which needs the help of schools and teachers. The Universities should hold out more policies to restrict students in using mobile device. As long as professors tell students whether mobile phones are welcome in their classes at the very first and make sure every students stick to the policy rigorously, students won't distracted by the smartphones. 
