Choir 
William Congreve once said:" Music has charms to sooth a savage breast, to soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak." Music, the best creation of human being, has its special power. It is a tool and also a gift for people in different culture to communicate. There are many forms of music performing. One can do solo; two can do duet; and a group of people can do choir. When singing in the choir, everyone combines his or her voice together and follows the lead of a director. People in the choir experience music as a team. Everyone can join a choir and many people like singing in a choir. I think the reason why many people like to join a choir is because joining a choir can benefit a person in many ways. For example, joining a choir gives a person confidence, helps a person make friends and it also helps a person build his leadership. But at the same time, joining a choir can benefit a person's physical body. 
Joining the choir makes a person feel relaxed. I did an interview with Sarah May, the director of All Campus & Community Chorale (AC3) and the PMO Kids Choir, the assistant director in Purduettes and University Choir. According to Sarah, some of the members in AC3 are working and they sing in the choir once a week. When singing, they simply enjoy themselves and express themselves through singing. Singing in the choir is a way to release themselves from their busy working hours. 
Besides of feeling relaxed, singing in the choir also reduced risk of heart disease. Researchers at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden asked a group of teenagers to humming, singing a hymn and chanting - and monitored their heart rhythms during each. According to the research, singing in the choir has a dramatic effect on heart rate variability, which is linked to a reduced risk of heart disease. (Rainey, 2013) 
Respiration, in other words, breathing, happens in all the living things at all time. It's the most important activity for a human body. An article indicated that singing in the choir helps better breathing. "To sing powerfully and sustain tone, choral singers must tap into their greater lung capacity. This improved breathing feeds the body and the brain with revitalizing oxygen and expels stagnant air, germs, and environmental toxins from deep within the lungs"(Stratton, 2008). When singers are singing, they need more strength to hit a high note, which also help to develop a greater lung capacity. With a great lung capacity, singers can breath better in daily life. 
Furthermore, joining the choir can boost immune system. Two studies done by Universities indicated that joining a choir is a way to Immune system boost. "A study at the University of Frankfurt, Germany examined the effect of choral singing on the immune system by testing the blood of choral singers.", "A study at the University of California conducted saliva tests on choral singers and found significantly raised levels of immunity-building proteins after performing."(Stratton, 2008). With a better immune system, people will be less likely to get sick and stays healthy. 
Last but not lease, joining the choir makes a person feel happy. According to Horn: when people are singing, endorphins and oxytocins might be releasing. Those are both hormones, the first one gave people a feeling of happiness while the latter one helped people to feel less stressful. "What researchers are beginning to discover is that singing is like an infusion of the perfect tranquilizer, the kind that both soothes your nerves and elevates your spirits."(Horn, 2013). The way that singing excite a nerve to release the "hormone of happiness" makes a choir "the paradise of happiness". When people sing, they feel happy; when two people sing together, the happiness doubled; when people singing in the choir, happiness spread and continued. 
One will feel relaxed and happy when singing in the choir. Also, one will breath better, have a lower risk of getting heart disease and also have their immune system boosted. Joining a choir might have even more benefits in other ways. But base on the information that I collected so far, I can say joining a choir have many physical benefits to a person. 
