P5d1 
April 11, 2015 
How to improve the quality of our sleeping 
From ancient times till now, sleeping is always regarded as one of the most important things in people's daily life. However on the contemporary society, it is a common phenomenon that there are increasing number of people who do not care about their sleeping. They are called night owl, spending their night working, watching TV shows or having parties instead of sleeping in bed. Being sleepy during working and studying next day will be the bad result from what they did last night. A large amount of people who really want to sleep early always suffered from insomnia unfortunately. Due to this harsh situation, I think that people should have the knowledge about how to improve the quality of sleeping. 
In order to have comprehensive information about how to improve the quality of sleeping, I analyzed lots of materials and data in different resources including my interviewee and articles from internet and journal. 
To begin with, I interviewed <name> who is the TA Chemistry115. From this interview, I opened up my mind. There are many methods to improve the quality of sleeping. She used her own bitter experience to remind me that it is important to have a nice sleeping environment which is quiet and clean. Then the methods she mentioned involved being relax when you are ready to sleep, making a good time schedule and having a correct eating habit. She spent most her works on writing about what is a good eating habit for sleeping well. People should eat health fats, like coconut oil and pasture raised meat. They can provide people's body with the necessary building blocks to manufacture sleep hormones. Secondly, high antioxidant food is also important for hormone production and removal of toxins that can improve sleep. Finally, for best sleep, it is better to stop eating at least 4 hours before bedtime, and preferably by 6pm every night. As for the things we should avoid are sugars, grains and vegetable oils. They will cause physical stress in your body and build blocks for hormones which are bad for sleep. 
Keeping on collecting data, I read three different articles form different authors. Each author wrote in different perspective, but all of them talked about the approaches to make better sleep quality. In the first article, Mark S. Rea mentioned the artificial light does have harmful influence of people's sleeping. He said "artificial" light at night will broke people's circadian system. People are able to perform a lots things instead of sleeping by using the light at night. Also the World Health Organization has reported that there was a "probable" link between shift work, which is only possible because of the electric light, and breast cancer. And Mark S. Rea explained 90-minute exposure to light at night from a large HD television will not suppress melatonin, a nocturnal hormone closely associated with signaling sleep via the blood stream throughout human physiology. 
In the second article, Laura Mc Mullen indicated having night owl roommates is one of the reasons which caused college students cannot sleep well. He listed several solutions to settle down this kind of problem. Frist method is talking openly with people's roommates. If people feel uncomfortable with something which their roommate is doing, they need to tell him or her within several hours. Secondly, people can adjust their environment. They can create a dark, cool, comfortable sleeping environment by themselves when they feel uncomfortable. In the end, Laura Mc Mullen advised setting personal boundaries is also a good idea which means people are their own "sleep boss". People should decide an appropriate bedtime that they can find some rest time to have a small nap when you did not have a nice sleep at night. 
In the final article which I read, the author Michael J. Breus considered about sleep hygiene. The author begin with introducing circadian rhythm. He finds that the more stable and consistent our circadian rhythm is, the better our sleep. Then turning to aging part, aging is also important in sleep hygiene. The frequency of awakening and the degree of awaken feeling unrefreshed have directly proportion. What's more, deadlines, exam and jobs which we called psychological stressors may block us falling asleep. 
