Problems with the Korean Educational System and ways to improve 
Purdue University 
Engl106I 
4/30/15 
In March 2009, the President Obama lauded for the Korean educational system and Korean parents for their zeal and passion. He said "Our children spend over a month less in school than children in South Korea. That is no way to prepare them for a 21st-century economy" (President, 2009). Even though, a President Obama thinks that the Korean education system is ideal, Korean students do not have any memorable moments in their childhood but studying through nights and nights for the exam in order to achieve the dream of getting into a top universities. Because competition for getting into the prestigious colleges is so fierce, private tutors and private education have become prevalent and the value of public school has dropped. Trends of getting these supplemental educations leave bulk of stress and pressure on students. The Korean society and educational system have to transform in a way that students get education mainly from their public school to eradicate unfairness, extra costs, and stress. 
Tutors and cram schools have been around for a very long time in Korea. Since the Choson Dynasty (1392-1910), passing the civil service exam administered by the royal court was seen as bringing social and material success for the entire family. Due to their zeal and passion, South Korea has transformed into the world's 13th largest economy; GDP has gone up about 40,000% since 1962 (Ripley, 2011). The mindset of bringing social and material success is still ongoing. Nowadays Korean students spend their youth getting to prestigious universities where admission slots are too few compared to the number of applications. Thus, most Koreans have to get supplemental classes from tutors and cram schools to outcompete their fellow-classmates. 
Some people might argue that if studying hard in cram schools and with tutors can bring success to students, how they can be the problem. The cram schools and tutors are a problem because they leave so much pressure and stress on students. In 2010, among South Koreans who confessed to feeling suicidal, 53 percent blamed academic performance and educational stress for the suicidal thoughts (Koo, 2014). The average high school student sleeps about 5. 5 hours a day, because they return home from the tutor and cram school past midnight (Koo, 2014). Because they don't get enough sleep when they should have, students decide to sleep in their regular school hours. The author said "when I visited some schools, I saw classrooms in which a third of the students slept while the teacher continued lecturing" (Ripley, 2011). It is very ironic and problematic that students are learning from outside of school and not learning from the public school where they should have. 
The prevalence of tutors and cram schools cause unfairness among students and also leave substantial amount of pressure on their families. In 2012, Korean parents spent more than $17 billion on cram schools and tutors (Ripley, 2013). As early as pre-school, it became common to go to tutors and cram schools. In 2010, 74% of students are involved with going to at least one cram school (Ripley, 2011). Because great number of students are getting help from these institutions, those who cannot afford those private institutions would unfortunately fall behind others; at an average cost of $2,600 per student a year for the private after-school institution (Ripley, 2011). 41 percent of students living in Seoul who go to the most prestigious university in Korea, Seoul National University, come from the 3 richest districts in Seoul (Victoria, 2013). This statistic demonstrates that richer families get better education and have more likelihood of going to universities like Seoul National University. 
There have been many attempts to fix the problematic education system. There were attempts to regulate and mandate a curfew of 10p.m, but teachers and owners have broken the regulations by blacking out windows and operating in residential buildings. Even back in 1980s, the government banned cram schools to humanize the education system (Ripley, 2011). In order to fix the problem of a dominance of cram schools and tutors, the value of public schools have to be improved in a way that students do not feel it necessary to go to the private tutoring industry to learn the material that will be on the exams. In order to raise the value of school, teachers should be examined every year and compete among themselves for their job; if one is not competent, one should be required to get additional training. With plans of completion by the 2015, Korean public school is changing in a way that helps students to engage with others and develop knowledge effectively (Victoria, 2013). Rather than simply memorizing the materials, the future educational system will give opportunities to discuss and debate the materials with classmates. The future education system would cut down the spending on supplemental education and benefit students to engage and study effectively. When the above changes are made, Korean students can study efficiently and without unpleasantness. 
It is time for the Korean education system to revolutionize and fix the problems. Korean students have suffered and studied through the rigorous and inefficient education system for so long. When cram schools and tutors are eradicated in Korean societies and students study effectively and hard in the public schools, students and parents won't feel the pressure and stress caused by these ridiculous institutions. Because I was part of this unfortunate system, I truly hope that imminent changes are upcoming to make the Korean society the better and smarter. 
Reference Page 
Koo, S. (2014, August 1). An Assault Upon Our Children. Retrieved from 	 
President Obama's Speeches. (2009, January 26). Retrieved April 15, 2015, from http://www.cbsnews.com/news/president-obamas-speeches/ 
Ripley, A. (2011, September 25). Teacher, Leave Those Kids Alone. Retrieved April 14, 2015, from http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2094427-1,00.html 
Ripley, A. (2013, August 3). The $4 Million Teacher. Retrieved from http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424127887324635904578639780253571520 
Victoria. (2013, April 20). The Pressures of the South Korean Education System - Beyond Hallyu. Retrieved from http://beyondhallyu.com/culture/the-pressures-of-the-south-korean-education-system/ 
		 KOREAN EDUCATION PROBLEMS	3 
Running head: KOREAN EDUCATION PROBLEMS 
