Chinese Basketball can turn back on correct track 
Purdue University 
04/14/15 
Some reviewers thinks that Chinese basketball may not resuscitate any more. The reason is that they criticize that the important factor of Chinese basketball becoming awful is Chinese basketball association had been corrupt and venal. However, reviewers make sure that it is impossible to change and rectify the current situation of corrupt and venal Chinese basketball association. Because Chinese basketball association consists of many small sections which are responsible for their own obligation. And these all small sections are deeply connected. Thus, no matter what to renovate any one section, every section will be affected and changed. Maybe, the whole Chinese basketball association will be broken drastically. What's more, due to the corruption of Chinese basketball and the current situation of Chinese education(Students are forced to only focus on high scores in school), fewer and fewer elite youth basketball players were developed by Chinese basketball. It is a vicious circle that is not easy to be changed. 
However, my standpoint is that Chinese basketball can turn back on correct track. In my view, as long as solve three problems entirely, Chinese basketball can turn back on correct track. These three problems are refereeing issue, output of outstanding youth basketball players and management of Chinese basketball association. Concerning about refereeing issue, I think that the government should pay money to better train a new generation of referees. And these new referees should be sent to USA be trained and developed better. Chinese Basketball Association also should make a strict and detailed rule to manage the referee organization. For example, to set a very severe punishment to alert referees to regular the behavior of their own. In the matter of elite youth basketball players, I think the key to solve this kind of problem is to create a perfect college basketball association, like NCAA which can let every basketball player own equal opportunity to play for college. And this perfect college basketball association can give poor college basketball players enough financial support. This association has to be justice and equity. If Chinese basketball create a nice college basketball association, not only provide a platform for gifted young guys to show themselves, but also one outstanding youth player can choose which college you want after graduating from high school , which demonstrate that getting high test score is not only way to good college." With regard to the management of Chinese basketball association, I think that Chinese basketball association can learn some from NBA. In NBA , there is an organization, which is responsible for supervising the operation of NBA, consists of a few NBA players. If this organization find out some notorious record from management of NBA, it can apply for strike of NBA players. This independent organization can help NBA operate regularly. So, Chinese basketball association can mimic NBA. Step by step, management of Chinese basketball association will turn into clean and upright. 
To sum up, I believe that Chinese basketball can turn back on correct track, and Chinese basketball will return the NO. 1 in the Asia. 
DEVELOPMENT OF CHINESE BASKETBALL 
Running head: Chinese Basketball can turn back on correct track 
