The Effect of Advertisements on Teenage Psychology 
April 9, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author Note 
The Effect of Advertisements on Teenage Psychology 
Introduction 
Teenagers constitute a very big part of the market and they are highly impressionable. This fact makes this market segment highly viable as advertisements tend to have a very strong impact on still developing teenage brains. Their understanding of the media and its effects is limited due to their immature nature. The work of marketing organizations shows that teenagers are extremely important to companies marketing. They have the power to influence teenager's families to change their spending patterns and brands. Therefore the aim of this paper is to find out whether these unrealistic advertising images cause negative body image issues in teenagers and what are the possible solutions to this problem. 
Literary Review 
In order to be successful at achieving these marketing goals, the media companies design advertisements that portray certain images to their young and impressionable minds and take advantage of their nature to believe everything that the media projects at them (Saeed Al Mehairi, 2013). In an article by Saeed Al Mehairi,2013, examples of such marketing that is aimed at teenagers by media, can be seen in the use of fifty percent of the space in teenage magazines for advertisements. Breaks on popular teen television shows are also constantly used in order to target teenagers. These advertisements impact the teenagers at a psychologically that is individually as well as at a group level. At the individual level, the impact on teenagers includes influencing the buying decisions of the parents and family while at the group level these effects are seen in terms of the change in attitude, thinking and actual behavior of the teenagers. Due to the group impact of these advertisements, teenagers who think that a particular product is good, further influence other teenagers to buy those products. 
Moreover, there were some similarities seen in an article by Harriger, J.A., Calogero, R.M., Witherington, D.C., and Smith J. (2010). We see that in particular advertisements relating to fashion, beauty and lifestyle have the most powerful effect on how teenagers think that they should look. Teenage girls get heavily influenced by the advertisements shown in women's magazines as they are their source for information pertaining to the latest in beauty products and fashion accessories. Over the years advertisements have progressed towards increasingly thinner models, both male as well as female. Advertisers believe that these so called 'ideal' looking models sell products. Teenagers are insecure about their looks and advertisers target this insecurity by bombarding them with images of 'perfect' looking models which makes them dissatisfied with their own body shape. This results in the increase in psychological disorders in teenage girls. 
Furthermore, in an article based on by Maria Chang (2009), talks about the unattainable concept of beauty using images of unhealthily thin models which are further air brushed and photo-shopped, impact teenagers the most and they are constantly striving to achieve these body ideals. Cynthia Hanson states that,"Advertisers should determined in their use beauty stimulates or manipulates consumers...this research and regulatory activity may show that the use of more accurate and representative portrayals of women in advertisements will help alleviate this problem, particularly for younger females who are struggling with new physical and psychological identities as women" (Hanson, 150). They are constantly trying to fit in even though there are psychological dangers of trying to attain these stick thin figures. Even teenage boys are feeling 
pressurized. Today media is targeting males as having a lean and muscular physique and a disorder called 'exercise bulimia' has emerged which involves excessive working out and exercising. The increase in eating disorders, use of steroids and cosmetic surgeries are also directly a result of the images shown in the media. 
Call to Action 
There are solutions to these problems which involve increasing awareness of the electronically altering procedures used in these images. In addition laws can be taken out to make it mandatory for advertisers to specify the changes regarding the body shape and size, that have been made to any particular advertisement and images. These laws should be taken into action along with the relevant advertisements immediately. Being a teenager myself, I've grown up with insecurities about my body which have been impacted by these stereotypes the media creates. Throughout my teenage years, I've had friends who starve themselves in order to achieve a perfect size zero. It is imperative for the parents and the community to realize how such advertising is having adverse effects on the minds of their children. Everyone, including you must have looked at an advertisement or a photo in the magazine/newspaper at some point in your life and thought about how it would feel to have the perfect body shape. The psychological health of our future generations is much more important than the sale of consumer products and efforts should be made by the media companies along with our society immediately. 
