The popularity of internet live broadcasting 
The popularity of internet live broadcasting 
	With the high speed development of the internet, the live show on the internet has been realized and became a part of our lives. The internet live show is to use internet as a media to play the real time video, and the real time video is broadcasted but played simultaneously. The the internet live show is multifarious, such as video games, dance, sing songs, emotional consultation and cooking. What people need is just to open his or her live show apps on the phone or computer and then choose the hosts he or she likes. With about long time watching internet live show experience, I saw the development of the internet. In a recent research called the analyze paper of the current situation of the internet live broadcasting in 2016 which concerned the changing number of internet live broadcasting companies from 2006 to 2015 in china, there are more and more new internet live-board casting platform and more audiences for the internet live show, from only 3 companies to more than 10 big internet live broadcasting companies (Anonymous,2016). As a new rising medium, internet live broadcasting has the booming development at the very start until now. Because of the unique three factors of the popularity, there is no doubt that the internet broadcasting is more and more influential and well-known. 
First of all, the internet live broadcasting is needed from psychology and culture aspect. In the article named The Rise of Peep Culture written by Paul Mc Fedries (2010), the author research the peep culture and I think from psychological aspect it explains the popularity of internet live show. First Mc Fedries (2010) explains the word "cam-boy and cam-girl" which are the people who like broadcast live pictures of themselves over the Web (p. 21). Moreover, the behavior that broadcasting one's detailed life by picture or video is called "peep culture", which is that people are more and more tend to watch others live and be watched by others results in the popularity of internet live show. One famous example is a teenager host in south Korea. The young man just shows how he eat his dinner every night. What he eats is some normal food instead of big meal. Also, his table manners are very bad. Sometimes he even hiccups in front of audiences. To be surprised, there are more quite a lot people watching him eating. The young man made a lot of money and was reported by the newspaper of England. The audiences think he is lovely and they feel realistic from that young man. They choose to watch him while they are eating because the young man provides them with a feeling of home. At the meantime the young man lives with his old grandmother, and the young man claimed that the reason he broadcasts is that he wants someone to talk and be with him. From this example, we can find people wanted a place to have a closer communication place. The internet live broadcasting gives people the chance. The people not only enjoy the watching and being watching but also find a realistic communication place. 
Besides the psychology and culture aspect, the high technique of internet live broadcasting offers the conveniences and attract the audiences. In 2013, a submersible called Shinkai 6500 conducted, a globe research cruise with the RV Yokosuka (a kind of camera) (Kawama, 2014). The bright spot was that the company named JAMSTEC used the internet live broadcasting technique to show the secret ocean world to audiences simultaneously. Kawama (2014) also described how the company overcame the difficulties of the deep-sea live broadcasting. "The challenge of live broadcasting from the deep is to engage viewers who are far away from the scene of the action" (p. 42). The company successfully attracted over 500000 people and got at least 95 percent viewer satisfaction. The quality of the picture was pretty good and there were the workers in the sub communicating with the audiences. The totally successful example of internet live broadcasting in Kawama's article explains vividly. There were also some pictures of the live show. I could see the bullet words were full of the screen. The audience were excited about what they saw. The internet live broadcasting could cover wide range and even relate to the deep sea which is far away from audiences. Moreover, at most time the hosts only need a smart phone to broadcast, which means at any circumstances the hosts can broadcast. The live show company inserted bullet screen system into live show during these years, which promoted the communication between the anchor and audience. With the new technology and new idea, the live show is increasingly popular in Chinese society. 
From a survey collected by the biggest internet live show system named Dou Yu, it is clearly indicated that over 90 percent of the audiences are under age of 30. Also, the data states that the most popular program is video game, which is over 70 percent of the total audiences. Moreover, among the different kinds of video games, competitive games are the most popular. From the data collected, it is not hard to find that there is much relation between the video games and internet live show. Actually, in some degree, the popularity of the internet live show is an aspect of the popularity of video games. So why there is a tight relationship between video games and internet live show? There are a lot of people watching competitive games. The reason why the competitive games are so popular is that they required complex strategy, team cooperation and high reaction capacity. The internet live show companies invite many great players to play for the audiences. By the bullet screen, the audiences communicate with the players about the skills of the games and learn the skills at the same time. Moreover, because the competitive games require needed high concentration and are stressful, many players prefer to just watch the online games rather than play the competitive games. Finally, from internet live show system, people come together and talk with each other by bullet screen. They improved their skills and have fun by live show. The good communication environment is the reason why more and more people for the internet live show. 
Due to the psychology and culture aspect, the new technique and tight relation with the video games, the internet live broadcasting as the new rising medium will place an important space in the social communication. With coming of internet age, the internet live broadcasting based on internet must be widely used and greatly popular. 
Reference 
Mcfedries, P. (2010, June). The rise of peep culture. IEEE Spectrum, 47(6), 21. doi: 
10.1109/MSPEC.2010. 5466787 
Kawama, I. (2014, October). Live broadcasting of deep-sea hydrothermal vents. 
	Sea Technology, 55(10), 39-42. http://www.sea-technology.com 
Anonymous. (2016, May). The analyze paper of the current situation of the internet 	live broadcasting in 2016. Chinabaogao. 	http://www.chinabgao.com/freereport/71916.html 
THE POPULARITY OF INTERNET LIVE BROADCASTING 
Running head: THE POPULARITY OF INTERNET LIVE BROADCASTING 
