Using valerian to treat insomnia 
Purdue University 
05/01/2015 
	 Insomnia is a common sleep disorder that happens when people have trouble falling asleep or staying sleep. As all the people know, sleep is a really important part of our lives; if we are sleepless or have poor quality of sleep, we cannot function well in the daytime. "Various studies have noted insomnia to be quite a common condition with symptoms present in about 60-88% of the adult population."(July 1998) It has become more and more common at present and people should pay more attention to this problem. After I looked through various sources, I found out many causes and treatments. However, in my opinion, the best treatment is to take valerian root, which is effective and safe. 
	Valerian, a flowering grassland plant, can reduce the time it takes for people to fall asleep and help them sleep well. It has been used as a medicinal herb for a long time and is very common in the United States. However, it is useful for short-term insomnia only. "In one double-blind study, 44 percent of insomniacs who took valerian described the quality of their sleep as "perfect," and 99 percent said their sleep had improved significantly. None of the patients reported any side effects."(June 2013) From this, valerian is a very effective substance to treat insomnia and many patients use it. 
	First of all, valerian is effective in putting people to sleep. Recall the interview that I did before. The professor told me about 3 types of insomnia, which are "sleep onside disorder", "primary insomnia" and "early morning waking". The first one is "sleep onside disorder". This means people take a very long time to fall asleep and sleep a short period of time. The second one is really common for old people. People fall asleep fine, but they wake up in the middle of the night and then fall back to sleep. This is "primary insomnia". The last one, also the hardest one to treat, is "early morning waking". At 3 o'clock in the morning, some people normally just wake up and their day has started. They try to stay asleep longer. However, they wake up very early. For these different types of insomnia, valerian maybe useful for helping them to take a short amount of time to fall sleep and reducing the middle of the night waking as much as possible. It can give people better quality of sleep. 
	Second, valerian is a convenient and easy way to treat insomnia. From the expert's research, there are many treatments can be used, such as change habits that disrupt sleep, neutralize anxiety when people cannot sleep and harnesses your body's relaxation response. It does not seem like a hard thing to do. People only need to change their lifestyle and behavior, however, making a new schedule or changing their habits is not an easy thing to do. It may take too much time to treat this problem. At present, valerian remedies come in a variety of forms, valerian tea, valerian pills and valerian tincture. (April 2005) This treatment is more convenient for patients to treat insomnia and deal with this problem as soon as possible. They can take valerian anywhere at any time. Therefore, using valerian is such a wise choice. 
	Admittedly, not everyone think that valerian is the best treatment. They may find out that valerian probably does not work to treat insomnia and it is harmful. "Headaches, dizziness, pruritus and gastrointestinal disturbances are the most common effects reported in clinical trials but similar effects were also reported for the other medicines."(January 2013) Therefore, experts advice pregnant and nursing women to avoid taking valerian and don't use it for longer than 1 month. However, compared with the advantages that come from valerian, this disadvantage seems to be less important. 
	Consequently, in my opinion, valerian is the best treatment for insomnia. It is effective to treat various types of insomnia and convenient for patients to take it. Insomnia may become a chronic problem. Therefore, we should cure it as soon as possible. Using the most useful method to treat it in order to avoid it become more serious. 
