P5d3 
05.01. 2015 
Using office hours actively 
Going to university is one of the most important periods in our life so that we are supposed to work hard to improve ourselves in study and other abilities so as to prepare for our future life. Using office hours actively, from my perspective, is a crucial and helpful thing for our students to make a progress or an achievement. Some people think they can get good grades or make a progress even without going to office hours because they can solve many problems by themselves or don't have enough time. However, I strongly believe that using office hours actively will benefit people in many aspects, such as addressing certain course's problems, improving present study, preparing for future job. 
First, through going to office hours, students can get help to solve certain course's problems. While having some courses, for example, math, students may confront many difficult assignment problems. Office hours is a good resource for them to get problems solved by their math professor who possesses expert math knowledge and experience. Afterwards, some assignment questions may reappear in exams, which means college student can get this kind of questions' scores. Yet, without professors' assistance, students may not obtain a complete answer of questions or solve some assignments for a long time. Besides, during office hours, students can get much information about certain course such as how to get extra credits and how to prepare for exams, so that they are easy to get A. Obviously, using office hours is beneficial for college students. 
In addition, it is true that office hours is an precious opportunity to improve present study, not only in certain course. In other words, professors can benefit university students not only in certain course but also in many other study aspects. According to an April 4th, 2015 Article on About Education website, "Kelci Lynn Lucier presents that if you're thinking about graduate school-even just a little bit-your professors can be great resources for you. Professors can offer different study programs which students are interested in and some graduate schools that are match for students' major". Also, while students face some study problems like how to choose courses, how to find some university buildings, they can ask their professors for help because most professors are warm-hearted to help their students. According to an article named How To Talk To Professor, "Professors are people, just like everyone else, and if you approach your professors with the same basic respect and decency you offer everyone else you interact with, you'll probably find that they react with the same". However, without going to office hours, students may lose the opportunity to gain more information because their own professional network or knowledge is limited. Therefore, by talking face to face with professors in office hours, students can obtain much information and assistance from professors' help. 
At the same time, office hours benefits students in preparing for future jobs and graduate school a lot. Because office hours is a good process to make professor better know their students and be familiar with students because of one to one talk, which means professors can write more detailed things in recommendation paper. Recommendation letter is a very helpful and crucial thing for college students to apply graduate school, find jobs or do research. Without going to office hours actively, students cannot get detailed recommendation letter because professors are not familiar with you, or even cannot get recommendation letter because your professors don't know who you are. According to an April 4th, 2015 Article on About Education website, "your professors may provide you some related organizations and activities the former students do for graduate schools or finding jobs". Also, besides office hours, professor may not have much time to make an appointment with their students. Like my professor, she have many meetings, work to do after class. There is no doubt that attending office hours actively is extremely helpful and a precious opportunity. 
In conclusion, going to office hours is extremely important and helpful for university students in order to address certain course's problems, improve present study, prepare for future job. 
Reference: 
Kelci Lynn Lucier(04,02,2015). 15 Things To Talk To Your Professor. About Education. Retrieved from http://collegelife.about.com/od/Dealing-With-Professors/a/15-Things-To-Talk-To-Your-Professor-About.htm 
Dustin Wax(04,02,2015). Advices For Students: How To Talk To Professor. Lifehack. Retrieved from http://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/advice-for-students-how-to-talk-to-professors.html 
