Synthesis Paper 
In this article I will cover three publications, they are both academic papers. Through these articles I will discuss the health properties of fast food, fast food in the proportion of American adults and children's food, and the influence of fast food on body weight and energy intake. In the following paragraphs I will summarize the views of three articles, and put forward my own point of view, and finally give my Suggestions for teenagers to eat Mc Donald's fast food. These three articles are:" Evaluating Fast Food Nutrition and Marketing to Youth", "Fast Food Consumption of U.S. Adults: Impact on Energy and Nutrient Intake and Overweight Status"," Fast-food habits, weight gain, and insulin resistance" 
First article mainly analyzed the nutrition of fast food and fast food market in youth groups, in this article, the author firstly illustrates the most fast food contain the nutrients are insufficient to meet the needs of adolescent body, fast food contain high calories and fat, and most teenagers often do not have enough exercise to burn off the excess energy and fat, secondly, fast food contains high salinity, especially in French fries and hamburgers in these two kinds of fast food, they contain salt can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and hypertension teenagers, this phenomenon is very common in many big country, including the United States. At the same time, even though the fast food contain a lot of vegetables, but its fiber and vitamin is often inadequate, leading to its cannot meet the needs of the youth. In the drink, too many soft drinks can lead to osteoporosis and diabetes. Yet even there are so many deficiencies, fast food is still popular among teenagers, because fast food for teenagers to buy is very convenient to carry, the price is low, but also are teenagers prefer Fried food tastes. Plus the advertised publicity, made fast food in teenagers is in the market, even though many people know that the food is not very healthy. 
And the perspective of the first article, the second article emphatically analyzes the fast food energy intake and obesity in the influence of these two aspects, the author think that these two aspects are closely intertwined any food to provide energy could lead to obesity. And because of fast food contains a lot of calories and fat, it became the choice for the people. So when people decided they eat something, often think a lot of food such as French fries and hamburgers can let them get rid of hunger, supplement energy. However, not all people who eat fast food really consumes so much energy, they are some students and office workers, a day of work and study are sitting in a chair, the body's muscles almost no movement. They feel tired just brain cause, whereas most of the fast food supplements is the body's muscles needed calories, so they tend to suffer from diseases such as obesity. However, fast food is not only the defects for physical strength consumes a lot of people, and after the movement of people, a fast food can be used to supplement energy. But most adults don't know the situation in the United States; they are just blindly Hamburg can satisfy their stomach, so many people suffer from obesity. 
The third article and the second article focused on some similar, are based on the analysis of the relationship between weight and fast food. Visible and is also the biggest fast food bring to people's problems. However, the third article mentioned a new problem that is the relationship between insulin and fast food. Insufficient insulin secretion is a major cause of diabetes, and in the author's opinion, fast food and soft drinks contain large amounts of sugar and fat, is the biggest cause of insufficient insulin secretion. Those who often use fast food such as French fries and hamburgers, eat a lot of sugar every day. This makes the burden of the liver, and these people are lack of effective exercise often. As a result, after a period of time, their insulin secretion began to abate, and developing diabetes. This is the fast food is a big reason of ill health. At the same time, the fast food like Mc Donald's big MAC, contains a lot of salt, the salt can lead to increased blood smoothies, can also lead to the happening of the disease. 
Through the views of three articles, I think fast food for the body, especially for the influence of the weight is very obvious. The long-term lack of exercise and eat a lot of fast food can lead to many diseases of the body. However, views of these articles have told us the right way to eat fast food, more exercise to burn off the fast food provide calories, and appropriate complement other kinds of nutrients. So I think for young people, fast food is a very convenient source of nutrition, but want to avoid disease requires more for sports and other nutrients supplements. 
Jennifer L. Harris, Ph.D., M.B.A. & Marlene B. Schwartz, Ph.D. & Kelly D. Brownell, Ph.D. (2010 October 27) Evaluating Fast Food Nutrition and Marketing to Youth http://fastfoodmarketing.org/media/Fast Food FACTS_Report_Summary_2010.pdf		 
	Shanthy A. Bowman Ph D &Bryan T. Vinyard Ph D (2013 June 18) Fast Food Consumption of U.S. Adults: Impact on Energy and Nutrient Intake and Overweight Status pages 163-168 DOI: 10.1080/07315724.2004. 10719357 
Mark A Pereira& Alex I Kartashov, &Cara B Ebbeling& Prof Linda Van Horn& Prof Martha L Slattery& Prof David R Jacobs Jr& David S Ludwig (2005 January) Fast-food habits, weight gain, and insulin resistance (the CARDIA study): 15-year prospective analysis DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)17663-0 
