P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
May 2, 2015 
The Integration of E-commerce with Physical Retailing 
In January 2015, the first Amazon physical store was opened quietly. The store is not located in the Manhattan core area where was mentioned at The Wall Street Journal, but opened at Purdue University in Indiana where I am studying right now. Amazon, as everyone knows, is currently one of the largest online retailers around the world. According to IBIS World, Amazon.com Inc. own 18.8% market share of e-commerce industry in the U.S. From here we can see that amazon have great influence and power in this industry. So when amazon was trying to develop physical store, I want to know whether developing offline store is a trend for e-commerce or not and why the top e-commerce brands are integrating with physical retailing. After the research, I found that the integration of online store with physical store have a promising outlook because this integration would keep both advantages of physical store and online store and create additional specific benefits that attract online retailer to develop offline stores. 
From the article A Framework for Cyber-Enhanced Retailing: Integrating E-Commerce Retailing with Brick-and-Mortar Retailing that written by James Otto and Q Chung, the combination of e-commerce with physical retailing would retain a lot of advantages of online store. Convenience is one of the most important factor why people love online shopping. Normally, customers can only buy goods when physical stores are opened. But if you go to online store, you could watching your favorite TV show in your bed and buying anytime you want or getting questions to customer service. Moreover, it can generally offer a larger inventory of items for sale because they are not constrained by physical retail space. Retailers can also offer their products to anyone with access to the Internet, but traditional physical retailing are generally limited to individuals close enough to physically visit their store. Electronic communication allows for a quicker exchange of significantly more information about product between buyers and sellers. As I mentioned above, these advantages of online stores would not be changed in this combination. 
