P5d1 
04.12. 2015 
Argumentative essay 
Going to university is one of the most important periods in our life so that we are supposed to work hard to improve ourselves in study and other abilities so as to prepare for our future life. Learning how to get along well with professors, from my perspective, is a crucial and helpful process for our students to make a progress. Some people think study is the thing only for students themselves instead of leaving hope to professors' help. However, I strongly believe that learning some skills to communicate with professors is extremely important for university students in order to address certain course's problems, improve present study, prepare for future job. 
First, through communicating with professor during office hours, students can get help to solve certain course's problems. While having some courses, for example, math, students may confront many assignment problems. They can not answer some difficult questions by themselves or their friends. Office hours is a good resource for them to get problems solved by their math professor who possesses expert math knowledge and experience. Afterwards, some assignment questions may reappear in exams, which means college student can get this kind of questions' scores.c Yet, without professors' assistance, students can not obtain a complete answer of questions they don't know how to address; finally, their exam score will be negatively influenced. Besides, through talking with professors, students can get much information about certain course such as how to get extra credits and how to prepare for exams, so that they are easy to get A. Obviously, learning how to communicate with professors is beneficial for college students. 
In addition, it is true that communicating with professors is an effective way to obtain more opportunities to improve present study, not only in certain course. In other words, professors can benefit university students not only in certain course but also in many other study aspects. According to an April 4th, 2015 Article on About Education website, Kelci Lynn Lucier presents that if you're thinking about graduate school-even just a little bit-your professors can be great resources for you. Professors can offer different study programs which students are interested in and some graduate schools that are match for students' major. Also, while students face some study problems like how to choose courses, how to find some university building, they can ask their professors for help because most professors are warm-hearted to help their students. Therefore, by communicating with professors, students can obtain much information and assistance from professors help. 
At the same time, talking with professors during office hours benefits students in preparing for future jobs a lot. Because communicating with professors is a process to make professor better know their students and be familiar with students, which means professors can write more detailed things in recommendation paper. Recommendation letter is a very helpful and crucial thing for college students to apply graduate school or finding jobs. Without professors or lacking communicating with them, students can not get detailed recommendation letter because professors are to familiar with you, or even can not get recommendation letter because your professors don't know who you are. According to an April 4th, 2015 Article on About Education website, your professors may provides you some related organizations and activities the former students do for graduate schools or finding jobs. There is no doubt that getting along well with professors is extremely helpful. 
In conclusion, learning how to communicate with professors is extremely important for university students in order to address certain course's problems, improve present study, prepare for future job. 
Reference: 
Kelci Lynn Lucier(04,02,2015). 15 Things To Talk To Your Professor. About Education. Retrieved from http://collegelife.about.com/od/Dealing-With-Professors/a/15-Things-To-Talk-To-Your-Professor-About.htm 
