P5d1_arp 
April 10, 2016 
Bio-inspired Robotics: A Step Further 
Bio-inspired robots is a category of robots that is inspired by biological systems. To study on the bio-inspired robots, a crossing inter-discipline, bio-inspired robotics emerged to figure out ways to emulate features of animals in the last few decades of 20th century. (Delcomyn, 2007) Though bio-inspired robots have growing importance, the major obstacles need to be determined to accelerate the development in this field. (Lu, 2016) Based on the prior research about the technical and the financial obstacles of bio-inspired robotics, this essay is going to draw a sound conclusion to compare the role of the financial factors and the technical factor played in the development of bio-inspired robotics, which is one step further than the previous interview report and synthesis paper. Though financial factors play an important role, the technical issues, such as the difficulty in the construction and application overweighs the financial issues, causing it difficult to be commercialized. 
First of all, technical obstacles cause it difficult to design and manufacture a bio-inspired robot. This process can be divided into two parts, hardware and software. According to the interview with Mr. Tu (2016), electrical and mechanical components are not easy to integrate on the flapping robots, which is an important type of bio-inspired robots that emulating insects and birds. The major problem is the size of the hardware. In other words, powerful actuators, sensitive sensors and robust batteries are desperately needed for bio-inspired robots (Tu, 2016). As for software, implementing intelligent control algorithm is also problematic. For humanoid robots, the method of emulating human bipedal locomotion, which can combine the advantages of two popular control algorithms is still under debated. The same thing happens to the method of replicating human arm and hand dexterity (Lu, 2011). These issues indicate that the policymakers need to bring together the roboticist and biologist to seek novel solutions to solve these problems. (Fermanian Business & Economic Institute, 2013) 
In addition, technical obstacles cause it difficult to apply the bio-inspired robots to real life. If the humanoid robots, inspired by human body, work in human environments, how they interact with humans is also a complicate problem (Kemp, 2007). The application of flapping robots is usually for military purpose, such as searching, surveillance and monitoring (Deng, 2006). Therefore, bio-inspired robots does not enter our everyday life yet. One of the reasons is that bio-inspired robots are not as robust as enough. According to a news on BBC (2105), robotic surgery has already linked to 144 deaths in the US. Though, only a minority of the deaths are related directly to technical errors, the possible misuse and the plausible ways to reduce accidents should be taken into consideration to increase the robustness of the medical robots. Another reason is the high price of the robots. The most popular commercial humanoid robots, NAO, cost surprisingly $8,000 for each (Sebastien, 2016). The high price increases barrier for people to get in touch with robots, which is also caused by the obstacles in manufacturing process. As a result of a paucity of the applications of bio-inspired robots, the products and options for investments are still limited for investors (Fermanian et al, 2013), which means the financial problems is due to the complex technical issues. 
More importantly, financial issues are not as serious as imagine. Even though according to the interview (2016), Mr. Tu indicated that the lack of funding hinged the development in this field, the increases in patents issued, articles published on scholarly journals and the research grants shows a 5 1/2-fold increase in bioinspired activity since 2000 (Fermanian et al, 2013), which is a strong sign indicates that the money invests into academies is far more than enough. It is also anticipated that by 2030, bio-inspiration could account for $425 billion of US gross domestic product (GDP) in terms of 2013 dollars (Fermanian et al, 2013). In conclusion, the financial situation in this field is fine after all, and will have an enormous progress in the future. 
To sum up, the obstacles in bio-inspired robotics is mainly caused by technical issues rather than financial issues. Technical difficulties, such as difficulties in design, manufacture and application overweighs the financial issues. Some of the technical difficulties are even the cause of the financial issues. Anyway, the field of bio-inspired robotics is vibrant and continuously improving. If all the difficulties lifted above is solved, if we take one step further in solving these problems, it will not be a dream that bio-inspired robots enter our offices and homes. 
Reference 
Lu, P. G. Y. (2011). Mechanical engineering challenges in humanoid robotics (Doctoral dissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology). 
Kemp, C. C., Edsinger, A., & Torres-Jara, E. (2007). Challenges for robot manipulation in human environments. IEEE Robotics and Automation Magazine, 14(1), 20. 
Fermanian Business & Economic Institute. (2013). Bioinspiration: An Economic Progress Report (Rep.). San Diego, CA: Point Loma Nazarene University. 
(Zhan Tu, personal communication, February 26, 2016). 
Delcomyn, F. (2007). Biologically inspired robots. INTECH Open Access Publisher. 
Lu, Z. (2016). A Study of Major Obstacles in Developing Bio-Inspired Robots. 
Deng, X., Schenato, L., & Sastry, S. S. (2006). Flapping flight for biomimetic robotic insects: Part II-flight control design. Robotics, IEEE Transactions on,22(4), 789-803. 
Robotic surgery linked to 144 deaths in the US - BBC News. (2015, July 22). Retrieved April 10, 2016, from http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-33609495 
Sebastien. (n.d.). Nao Robot Price How much does the Nao robot cost? Retrieved April 10, 2016, from http://www.about-robots.com/nao-robot-price-how-much-does-the-nao-robot-cost.html 
2 
