Argumentative Paper of 3D Printing Application in Medical Utilization, Draft 1 
04/02/2016 
Argumentative Paper of 3D Printing Application in Medical Utilization 
	At October 19th, 2015, researchers in Heriot-Watt University in United Kingdom made a breakthrough in 3D bio-printing (Towards Patient-specific Drug Screening, 2015, October 19). They successfully printed out human stem cells by extracting all the needed materials from human body. The team, led by Doctor Will Shu, worked with Roslin Cellab, a company works on life science. They refined the 3D printer to be gentle enough to do the printing of induced pluripotent stem (i PS) cells. This means that scientists are able to print these cells in three dimensions without damaging their biological function of differentiating into different cell types such as liver, heart and brain cells. This exciting news indicates that 3D bio-printing starts giving people a new concept in medical care: Scientists are able to cure patients by human-made body tissue or organs. 3D bio-printing technology is a flourishing industry that allow medical personnel to have more ability to save their patient by applying this technology into clinical application, such as making 3D printed organs. There is a huge gap between the supply and the demand in organ transplantation because not everyone wants to donate their organs and not everyone can find a suitable organ before their illness gets worse. Although there are people think 3D bio-printing us unsafe, expensive and unnecessary, I believe that 3D bio-printing organs will solve this huge gap since we can develop artificial organs to meet this need. For the following paragraphs, I will provide some evidence to support my view and also discuss some counterviews. 
	First of all, some people are concerned about the rejection and the safety of 3D printed organs. Those people claim that since the 3D bio-printing is a flourishing technology, the reliability and the safety of the printed organs are still unknown. However, the truth is, the transplant rejection only happens when the immune system detects the transplanted organ as a threat to the body, but a 3D printed organ is made by a patient's own cells, which are less possible to raise rejection. This is due to scientists incubating patient's stem cells in the lab and letting those cells grow into an organ according to the interview I had with professor <name> , who is the professor of biomedical engineering at <place> University. Thus, for the immune system, the 3D printed organ is made by the same cells as other organs. As traditional organ transplantation takes organs from other people, patients might end up either taking immunosuppressive drug that suppress the immune rejection for rest of the life or being killed by excessive immune rejection. Accordingly, having 3D printed organs is relatively more suitable and safer than receiving traditional organ transplantation since patients accept new organs that are made by their own cells. That is to say having a 3D printed organ transplantation actually has a smaller probability of raising immune rejection than the traditional organ transplantation. Additionally, the issue of safety and the reliability will be conveyed in the following case about a girl. She suffered from a serious headache because her skullcap over-grew unnaturally and was cured by replacing it with a printed skullcap (Tufnell, 2014, March 26). This girl is now enjoying her reborn life and thus we can preliminarily imply that there is no significant deficiency. Also, as I mentioned above, 3D bio-printed organs are made by a patient's own cells, and demonstration of bio-printed tissue and organ integration in vivo is a final step (Mironov, Reis & Derby, 2006). That is to say, even if any problems arise with the printed organs, they should have the ability to restore the function just like other organs. Therefore, a 3D organ can be considered as the same as any other original organs and the its reliability should be as well as native organs (Murphy & Atala, 2014). 
	Further, there are some counterclaims state that it would cost much money to develop this technology. Also, as it cost a lot to develop, so it will cost a lot to have the availability. This expensive technology will end up that only the rich would have an advantage of obtaining and thus leads to unfairness. I partially agree with this view. Any emerging technology costs money to research and develop. However, when we consider the return on investment, it turns out that 3D bio-printing is worthy of investing funds because it can produce an organ by a patient's own cells. The alternative would be to wait for a couple years for a suitable organ and risk having a transplantation rejection that might kill the patient. If we always avoid spending money on developing new technology, then the whole of society would not make progress. Thinking of our past and how people saved money on developing cars, we would not be able to have convenient transportation in the present. Also when the first car was made available for consumers, it was extremely expensive, and the rich took advantage of having fast transportation between places. Nevertheless, as time went by, cars became more affordable and widespread as the technology became more maturely developed and further benefit most people in our society. In other words, when any new technology is created, the rich always take advantage at first; this is an inevitable situation. However, when the technology becomes maturely developed, it can be utilized by the public and will benefit the majority of society in a cheaper way. 
	Lastly, some opponents refuse the importance of developing 3D printing in the use of biology. They denote that it is unnecessary to develop 3D printing technology in regular daily life use such as organ transplantation. They claim that this technology would be limitedly used in high technology-needed situations, such as military usage, etc. Therefore, investing money and effort to such a non-practical technology development is needless. I completely disagree with this viewpoint. Take the present situation in US as an example, there are over 120,000 people waiting for organ transplant currently, and about 6,000 patients die every year while they are waiting for a suitable organ (The Need is Real, n.d.). As Figure 1 shows, the gap between the supply and the demand in the US is about 1:8, which is incredible. Not to mention, people in developing countries do not have proper medical care and a sound system for managing supply and demand. The need is real around the world. It is undeniable that we are facing the situation of too many people need to be cured but we do not have enough and suitable organs to save them. Therefore, it is believed that if we can utilize the 3D printing technology maturely, we can solve this huge gap in supply and demand and, hopefully, save more people. 
Figure 1. The Gap Continues to Widen. The Need is Real: Data. Retrieved from http://www.organdonor.gov/about/data.html 
	The following case exemplifies why 3D bio-printing is important for patients. Several years ago a little boy with rare heart disease waited for couple months for a suitable heart transplantation (Morber, 2015). During the waiting, his parents suffered from worrying whether their son would breathe for his last everyday. Luckily, the boy received a heart donation eventually and was cured. However, he received twice operations since the heart he had in the first transplantation did not work well. In the interview, his mother recalled, "I live with a complex ball of guilt and grief, I benefited from someone else's pain." This case brings up several problems in current status. First, it is undeniable that patients have to wait for a long time for a suitable organ and sometimes their health deteriorate so fast that they don't even have a chance to receive an organ donation. Second, as the organ is taken from random people, it might have a applicability problem. Last but not least, when a patient receives an organ donation, it means that there is someone died. Thus leads to an ethic issue. Hopefully, through 3D bio-printing, we could solve these problems. As we can control the speed of organ growth, we can provide organ transplantation before any fatal situation happened to the patient. Followed by this, we can also avoid rejection since the organ is made by the patient's own cells. Furthermore, in 3D bio-printing, we "make" organs rather than "get" organs from others, we would get rid of the situation of benefitting from a stranger's pain. 
All in all, science and technology always derive from humanity. There are some needs, so people develop a solution or a technology to meet the need. For me, the value of science is that it can help human society improve. I definitely think there is a great chance for 3D bio-printing 
to benefit our world by solving the gap between the supply and the demand. Currently, scientists are still working on how to utilize this technology more maturely by developing higher fineness printing skill and making sensors of the organs (Ozbolat & Yu, 2013). By doing so, scientists are able to make organs with better function and completion, and the organs further turn out to be more like native organs. To make this realistic application come true, it is worthwhile and important to raise people's attention to this issue. 
Reference List 
The Gap Continues to Widen. (n.d.). The Need is Real: Data. Retrieved from http://www.organdonor.gov/about/data.html 
Mironov, V., Reis, N., & Derby, B. (2006). Review: Bioprinting: A Beginning. Tissue 
Engineering, 12(4), 631-634. Retrieved from http://online.liebertpub.com/doi/pdf/10.1089/ten.2006.12. 631 
Morber, J. (2015). Custom Organs, Printed to Order. Retrieved from 
http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/next/body/3d-printed-organs/ 
Murphy, S. V., & Atala, A. (2014). 3D bioprinting of tissues and organs. Nat Biotechnol 
Nature Biotechnology, 32(8), 773-785. Retrieved from http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v32/n8/full/nbt.2958.html 
Ozbolat, I. T., & Yu, Y. (2013). Bioprinting Toward Organ Fabrication: Challenges and Future 
Trends. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., 60(3), 691-699. Retrieved from http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6423824 
The Need is Real. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.organdonor.gov/about/data.html 
Towards Patient-specific Drug Screening (2015, October 19). Retrieved from 
http://www.hw.ac.uk/news/towards-patient-specific-drug-screening.htm#body Content 
Tufnell, N. (2014, March 26). Neurosurgeons Successfully Implant 3D Printed Skull. Retrieved from http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2014-03/26/3d-printed-skull 
