Cultural Diversity in colleges has positive effect on students' life and career 
Purdue University 
(Final Draft) 
	University is the place that people used to choose to receive higher education, and it is a portal to new world with chances and challenges. People from all around the world try to get into top universities in the world, and that causes cultural diversity in college. People have different point of views about whether cultural diversity is good or not for universities all around the world. In my opinion, cultural diversity in colleges has positive effects on students' life and can help them go further in their own careers. 
It is true that some students may get influenced in a bad way by living in an environment with people has different cultural backgrounds. Some of them are afraid of other cultures and just stay in their comfort zones. For example, my <name> feels the American culture is too open to accept for Indian people. He feels awkward when American people are talking inappropriate jokes and stories that are too open. He does not speak in all of his classes, and he just stays in his dorm, studying or playing games all day. He is trying to stay in his comfort zone and avoid contacting with people from different cultures. People may do the same thing when they are uncomfortable with other cultures. However, these are only minor groups of students in colleges. For most part of students, they are willing to cooperate and communicate with people with different background. So those negative phenomenon will not happen frequently in colleges. 
Let's move to the advantage of cultural diversity. According to Anthony Lising Antonio (2001), College with cultural diversity can offer students good opportunities to develop friendships with students from different countries. For example, my friend Quandan Zhang who is studying in a Chinese university with no students from other country have no chance to have a friend with different cultural background. For me, I have made plenty of friends that are from outside of China. They are from all around the world. Quandan used to be jealous of me and asked me a lot of questions about my foreign friends. The experience of having friends from different country is valuable, and it is wanted by lots of people. Only college with a fairly well cultural diversity can offer students the opportunities to have the experience of having friends from different countries. 
Living in a cross-cultural area can help students to broad their visions and learn more perspectives. According to the interview with Professor Perrucci, cultural diversity is a common phenomenon in colleges all around the world. Universities have a huge population of international students. During having classes and living with students from other countries, students can learn different perspectives that they have never thought about before. Living in different societies, people may have different definitions and different attitudes toward one same thing. For example, I used to live in China. Teachers and parents do not allow students to play video games. After I came to America and talked to American students, I found the video games are treated differently. In America, students are allowed to play games if they have finish their assignments and can manage their time appropriately. By comparing these 2 ways to deal with students playing video games, I can conclude that the American way is much better and more appropriate. Thus, living and learning with people from other countries can help students learn different perspectives, and broad their vision. 
Another point is, According to George Gmelch (1997), living in a cross-cultural area can also help students learn cross-cultural communication skill. Not being familiar with other cultures causes students to not know well about other cultures. When they need to cooperate or communicate with people in order to accomplish some assignments and projects, they will be nervous and have conflicts with people from other cultures. That can cause them to not express themselves clearly during communication and make less contribution during the cooperation. Living in a cross-cultural can improve their abilities to deal with those situations. They need to face those kinds of situation many times, and they can practice. After practicing for many times, they will be able to talk fluently and perform better in such situations. Thus, cultural diversity can help students to improve their cross-cultural communication skills. 
What's more, students with cross-cultural cooperation skills and communication skills could help students perform better in their future teams and companies. According to Alexei V. Matveev and Paul E. Nelson (2004), well understanding of cross cultural environment and cross-cultural skills are needed for team members. As the companies are expanding globally, the employees of the companies are getting diverse. The culture value differences result in the difference of perceptions when it encounters the trades between countries. The huge culture difference has played a major role in the business trades. By doing international business, companies need to encounter the problems caused by culture difference. All of those employees have different knowledge background and cultural background. They are all from different areas and countries and have different cultural habits. In order to be more productive and faster, companies divide their employees into lots of teams so that they can work on projects together. In order to prevent problems caused by culture difference, each member in teams needs to well understand the cultures of their teammates and respect them. Teams with diverse members can generate ideas and solutions with higher quality and broader vision. Those teams can be more productive than those teams without diverse members. Thus, cross-cultural communication and cooperation skills can help to increase the possibilities to get a better team performance and reduce the pressure and conflicts in a multicultural team. 
In a conclusion, living in cross-cultural areas can help students improve their cross-cultural communication skills and cooperation skills. Nowadays, cultural difference plays a big role among big companies. They are lack of employees and managers who have those skills. Students with those skills can have a higher chance to be employed by those companies. Have those skills can help students and their future teams have a better performance and career development in their future companies. Thus, cultural diversity has good effect of students' life and can help them in their own future careers. 
Reference 
George Gmelch (1997). Crossing Cultures: Students travel and personal development. Int. J. 
Intercultural Rel. 21(4), 475-490. 
Alexei V. Matveev and Paul E. Nelson (2004). Cross Cultural Communication Competence and 
Multicultural Team Performance. International Journal of Cross Cultural Management. 42, p253-270 
Anthony Lising Antonio (2001). Diversity and the Influence of Friendship Groups in College. 
The Review of Higher Education. 25, 63-89. 
[Type text][Type text][Type text] 
3 
Cultural Diversity in colleges has positive effect on students' life and career 
1 
Running Head: Cultural Diversity in colleges has positive effect on students' life and career 
