"A good teacher is like a candle - it consumes itself to light the way of others" - Mustafa Kemal Ataturk 
Imagine a country where teacher : students ratio is tending towards 1 : 500, a country where the students will be waiting for the teacher to come from other lecture as the number of faculties are less or a class in which there are hundreds of students and just one professor which is logically also not possible. The quality of education in this country is guaranteed to decline. India is tending towards this stage. Once upon a time, India was a nation where teachers were respected as much as god. The relationship between a teacher and his student was considered very holy, and if we were to look into our holy texts such as the Vedas, we would learn of the high pedestal at which a teacher was placed in the society. So, how did India, as a country, end up at such a stage where teaching as a profession lost all its respect? How did it reach a stage wherein most of the people in this country, who are taking up teaching as a profession, do so out of their inability and helplessness in finding another suitable job? Why do we not see people wanting to be teacher's like they want to be engineers and doctors? Two of the many reasons that will these questions about teacher shortage are Job Satisfaction and Salary Issues. Although this problem is very important and is difficult to tackle, there are methods which when implemented can bring difference in the system. 
Teacher shortage is a major challenge that India is facing and if not reported and not taken care of, India can fall behind the learning curve. Two of the many reasons of teacher shortage is Job satisfaction and Salary problems with the teachers. Though there are steps that can be taken to demolish this problem, Indians cannot deny the fact that they are risking their future by not helping teachers and not giving them the respect they should get. 
When one makes a decision about the work he will do in life, it is important that the decision be based on criteria that reflect his personal values, temperaments, experiences, and skills. Choosing teaching as a career is not an easy decision; rather, it should be the culmination of a process of reflection about what one wants to do with his life and his education. One should choose teaching as a career because I believe that education is perhaps the most important function performed in our culture, or for that matter, any culture. I believe that teachers individually and collectively can not only change the world, but improve it, and in the process find personal and professional renewal. Everyone should try and become a part of this noble profession, and someday to be counted among those in whom future preservice teachers found inspiration. There are many reasons why one should become a teacher. Firstly, it helps in building relationships. Learning well means having trust and respect toward one another as student and teacher. Teachers always love getting to know their students, learning their talents, celebrating their successes and watching them blossom. Secondly, teacher could make a difference in a student's career. Teacher always wants to be a positive influence in the student's life in both the classroom and in the real world. They are always there to support them academically, in their extra -curricular activities, and in the social drama that we call "college" or "university", teachers teach to make an impact and open up the student's eyes to all the possibilities that are out there. Another reason to pursue teaching as a career is the happiness and satisfaction teaching gives. I believe that the circumstances you're born into shouldn't dictate your chances for success, I believe that there is nothing more personally or professionally fulfilling than when the product of your work is a student's academic or social growth. The happiness, that the moment gives when a student independently applies something you taught him months ago in a new context, and you know that they are forever changed because of your work, makes teaching a career to be considered. Finally, teaching is challenging. It is a challenging, creative, and meaningful way to help students see their own potential and to imagine possibilities they might otherwise not imagine and that's how the teachers have a profound impact on the students life. It is a challenge in a way that you have to teach content, skills or ideas in ways that allows student succeed, anything that helps students engage and think about what they were learning in a new way. 
While doing all this research on the topic, I found some unexpected scenarios in India and the notion of teacher shortage is more severe than I thought. I found that there are many reasons and some important once are job satisfaction and salary issues. I also found about some ways to tackle the problem and I think that if they are tried and implemented, they will give affirmative results. 
To conclude, I gained a lot of knowledge on my research topic of teacher shortage in India. Many of the professionals and government officials think that this is a topic of concern. They are constantly meeting to discuss strategies to tackle this. It is worth recalling the words of Lee Iacocca, former CEO of Chrysler, who had said, "In a completely rational society, the best of us would be teachers and the rest of us would have to settle for something less, because passing civilization along from one generation to the next ought to be the highest honor and the highest responsibility anyone could have." 
