Argumentative Paper, D3 
4/22/2016 
Engineering as Consultant 
In today's society, people see engineering as a fascinating subject yet technical and complex. The currently prevalent view that exists is engineers are people who invent "cool stuffs" since many advanced inventions had been made in the last couple of years that people thought was impossible at first. However, I think this perspective does not see the value of engineering as it was made the first time. "Ingenium", a latin word for engineering, it means talent and cleverness. So engineering in contextual is way beyond those science and invention, it is a way of thinking. 
After studying here for about 9 months, I saw and heard stories about what engineering students do after they received their bachelor degree. During my interview with <Name>, <Position>, he showed some statistics. One that caught my attention was that when he claimed 76% of Purdue students go to manufacturing, practical and technical field after they graduate (personal communication, February 26, 2016). As an engineering freshman who's dream job is in the consulting and analytic field, I don't know how to respond. So that is why I came up with this topic. I think more of my fellow engineers should look deeper into this field. 
About 27% of Purdue engineering student are in the engineering major, which is roughly about 10,000 students including the graduates (Purdue Student Admission, 2014). And one of the possible reason of this I believe is that Purdue ranks #9 for engineering in the United States (colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com). This is not an easy major, even the professors said it at the beginning of my semester. This theory was proven when I saw some of my friends change their mind and converted into another major. This is why I consider this matter to be important, they need to know what benefit can they get with studying engineering. Besides researching about consulting can be also useful for other majors. In my opinion, which I think is quite unique compared to other's viewpoint, engineering trains your logic and how you solve problems and that is a necessity skill in the world of consulting. So my main point is that engineering students should consider consulting as one of their major job opportunities because it has many benefits and offer different career paths. 
Consulting is more than just giving advice. It includes a broad range of professional expertise (corporate analysis, human resources, business strategy, etc.), however most of them have eight fundamental objective that is also ranked hierarchically, which are listed in the picture below. (Turner, 1982). 
As you can see in the picture, consulting is much more complex than what many people think. This is why engineering students can fit in it. Their research and logical thinking skills can make it easier for them to provide unique solutions, presenting analysis of a research or business, implementing changes and facilitates client learning, so that it leaves a lasting value for the clients. What engineering students learn when they make their research and present it, is to some extent similar to working in consulting. They can even be an analyst in the firm. 
One of the rationale that came up to my mind about why engineers should consider consulting was the trend that currently exists. According to a publication made by American Association of Engineering Education, the amount of engineering's bachelor degree grew 5. 6 percent during 2013, it reached 83,100. Even though all of the other fields also grew, but engineering has the highest trend. However, the problem is that high trend was not matched up with a high trend of employment in the field of practical and technical engineers (Yoder, 2013). To conclude, the supply for engineers exceeds the demand. This is why we need to consider another plan for the future, which is the consulting area. 
	Working in a consulting firm is flexible, you can come from many different majors and once you're in it, it can lead you to different career paths. As an example, one of the partner at Bain & Company Global Head of Consultant, Keith Bevans, graduated from electrical engineering at MIT. He really love his work right now because it is similar to what an electrical engineer do, solve problems but in a bigger scale, consulting and improving companies that hire him. Working in the consulting, makes you learn new things, because every week, you will face different clients with different problems (Sack C, 2013). Every year, one of the top consulting firm, Ernst & Young, hire undergraduates from top notch universities who can use their analytic and creative skills on unique business or strategy problems, without looking at the candidates major. They do not look at the majors, because the hiring process is selective and once they got in, they will be trained by experienced consultants and analyst who act as mentors (Woods & Cortada, 2000). 
	Another issue that is also relevant, is that consulting can lead you to many career paths. As an example, the CEO of Allianz, Oliver Bate, was a former employee of Mc Kinsey & Co. The current CEO of Louis Vitton and LEGO Group are also former employees of Mc Kinsey & Co. If you work at a consulting firm for your first job, you might like or not like it. That really doesn't matter, because most of the people got out after 3 years working at a firm. They then take the lessons that they got when they work in the firm and used it as their leverage to pursue their career path. This is why the examples I showed you are in a whole different fields. 	 
Probably some of the engineering students will think that why should they look at consulting, they already look at how big the starting salaries are for engineering jobs out there. However in reality, it doesn't vary that much and actually some of the consulting company have a higher salary. According to the Purdue's CCO statistics website about student salaries in May 2011, the average engineering students will have a starting salary of $55,000, with the highest average was computer engineering, $65,000 (Center for Career Opportunities Purdue, 2011). Now, here is the other side, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics website, Mc Kinsey&Co gives its business and research analyst about $75,000 a year, while Bain gives its associate consultants around $71,000 a year (http://www.bls.gov/home.htm). Both of these companies are ranked top 5 in the consulting world. They hire a lot of engineers because they want people who can solve problems. This is why I think from the economic side, it is essential to look at the consulting chance. 
Another concern that people might have is that they want to work for the savvy companies that are top edge in making inventions. I talked with one of my parent's friend who's currently a CEO in one America's biggest company, Caterpillar. He said, usually from all the engineers that they hire, only around 10% will get promoted and make his way up to the company's positions. Now, the big question is how many people want to work in the lab until their pension time arrived? The ones who's going to end up in the high position of that "contemporary and techy" companies is actually the people who knows how to lead, solve problems and manage their employee, and many people can get this experience through working in the consulting field. 
	Consequently, I just want to open the eyes of the Purdue students (especially engineering) and make them realize that there are many job opportunities in various fields awaiting for them after they graduate, particularly in the consulting field. It is true that it is going to be a big change from the engineering world to the consulting and analytics, but there are many benefits that far outweigh the cons. I don't mean to 
