Argumentative Paper, Draft 1 
04/01/2016 
The Bitcoin is a Viable Option for Currency in the Future 
Introduction 
	The new form of "digital currency" (Nian & Chuen, 2015), the Bitcoin, has been a hot topic of discussion for the past few years, due to its tempting advantages, and disadvantages. Many argue that the bitcoin has a bright future, while others, like Paul Krugman (2013) say that the bitcoin is "evil". The main concern with the bitcoin is to do with its safety and privacy. The privacy aspect perplexes the public whether it is a positive characteristic or not, while the fact that the bitcoin is entirely digital plants doubt in the minds of the people regarding safety. In this paper, I argue that the bitcoin is bound to be successful in the future, and would be an additional option for currency in the world today. 
Background Information 
	The Bitcoin is a new form of "digital currency" (Nian & Chuen, 2015), which was created by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2003, and has been implemented and used since 2008. It is a technology that exists only on the internet, and a network that makes currency transactions and transfers considerably faster. Since it is entirely based on the internet, it has been subjected to "attacks", which are unconventional manners in which a bitcoin is be used for selfish purposes. The two most common attacks are "double spending" and "mixing" (Sanchez, P. M., Interview, February 26, 2016). Double spending is where the attacker tries to pay with the same bitcoin to different recipients, while he only pays once. Fortunately, this attack can be prevented by people known as miners, who "check and verify transactions to proceed" (Sanchez, P. M., Interview, February 26, 2016). Mixing is when the various senders and receivers of the bitcoin transactions cannot be traced back to the individual. This is why bitcoins are not regulated by banks or by the government, and is instead regulated by the miners who record these transactions in an online ledger known as the "blockchain". 
My Argument 
	Bitcoin has raised a large number of questions regarding the privacy policy. Since the bitcoin is a decentralized system, which avoids to rely on the banks and the government, it raises the question of trust, which is an essential part of the bitcoin's working. The purpose of the bitcoin is to maintain the anonymity of the sender and the receiver, which is why it appeals to millions of people today. While it succeeds in masking the identity of an individual, people argue that this is an easy platform for criminal activity, such as money laundering (Sanchez, P. M., Interview, February 26, 2016). Even though this is true, it does not change the fact that money laundering and other such criminal activities no not already exist. The existence of bitcoins is not going to increase criminal activities. 
	The second pressing issue is the security of using bitcoins. Since this entity is not in physical form and exists entirely on the internet without the backing of the banks or the government, hacking into personal digital wallets and the bitcoin network to hog all the bitcoins is a large possibility, and has been done in the past. This aspect refrains people from investing in bitcoins, but the actual risk of anyone hacking into the system today or in the near future is much lower than one might think it to be. The bitcoin itself is very difficult to hack into, and altering its value is protected by cryptographic functions (Baldwin, 2015). Also, the public encryptions on the blockchain are so complicated that the power required to break that would be more that the power to break down the entire bitcoin network, which makes the transactions extremely secure (Plassaras, 2013). 
The last question to answer is whether the bitcoin can really succeed as a currency. Many argue that because bitcoin is not palpable, it does not qualify as a currency. But ever since this digital entity has been introduced to the world, it has grown in popularity, and today over 100,000 transactions take place per day (blockchain.info), which shows that the bitcoin is successful as a currency. In Dowd and Hutchinson's (2015) example of Friedman's (1992) "The Island of Stone Money", the islanders use heavy stones shaped like disks to make payments. Instead of carrying it around as it was too heavy, the disks were placed in prominent places, and when ownership of this disk was to be passed on (similar to a bitcoin transaction), the owner would declare publicly of his transfer of ownership. This decentralized system resembles that of the bitcoin network, which shows that the bitcoin can be used as a currency. 
Conclusion 
	The bitcoin's growing popularity shows that more and more people are willing to invest in it, and that there is an element of trust in the bitcoin network and the decentralized system. As the world progresses into the future, the bitcoin will surface to a wider audience of the world's population, and as it is already a successful method for exchanging money, it is bound to be a success in the future as well. 
