Job Of Resident Assistant 
I'm interested in becoming a resident assistant in the coming years and I have done some research on resident assistant and made an interview with my RA, Shawn a month ago. After this preparation, I am more familiar with what resident assistant should do, how difficult to become a RA, and I realize that the job of RA is becoming more serious, while I previously thought that resident assistants do nothing except doing activities with residents. 
Since the jobs RAs are popular and very competitive, it is hard for university to choose qualified RA among a large group of applicants. My research indicated that skillful staff and well-trained resident assistants are necessary for successful operation of a resident hall because RAs should be appropriately trained by professional staffs because during working time many resident assistants have experienced some serious social problems like suicide, child abuse, or divorce caused by residents. They need to take enough training courses in order to qualify for resident assistant position. As for the training course, it should not focus so much on theoretical problems, but should emphasize ability to manage resident buildings and handle complex problems. In Purdue, university lowers $6600 tuition, eliminates living and eating fees, and pays high salary to each admitted RA in order to attract more and more high-quality applicants. The selected process is ruthless. About one thousand students apply, only one sixth of them get admitted to take the training course, and university finally choose one third of the left. 
Throughout the interview, Shawn told me that Purdue RA should stay in contact with main office of resident hall every day. They are also supposed to check each building. If some residents violate the rules, for example, smoking, drinking alcohol, or having party, resident assistants are responsible to stop those behaviors and report the instance to the main office. However, according to my research on the roommate issue happened on September 22, 2010 in Rutgers University, I think resident assistants in Purdue are working so relaxed that I suggest Purdue Office Of Residential Life should add some more training course to our RAs about how to observe and deal with the potential mental problems around the residents. In that tragedy from Rutgers University, a freshman called Tyler Clementi committed suicide after his privacy was invaded by his roommate and Clementi could not seek help from the resident assistant. The roommate issue is becoming a serious social problem, as more and more student go to universities that are far away from home and they have to live in resident halls. Some students would feel homesick, or some may feel uncomfortable with their roommates as they could not reach an agreement. So the job of resident assistant is no longer simple; instead it is becoming complex and challenging. Resident assistants should always make themselves as a trusted group of people for residents. In other words, when residents have living issues, such as mental health or roommate compatibility, they should first think of and ask their RAs for solution. 
If I were a resident assistant, every week I would create a survey link for my residents, which is about talking about the ongoing living concerns. The residents may not want to share their true feeling and opinions positively, so I need to ask for them frequently. After some part of time, the residents would automatically form a mental dependence to me, so I will be easier to find problems and solve with my past living experience. I do not find that RAs in Purdue pay enough attention to this part; instead they are interested in preparing for weekly activity. If they talk to their residents very often, and share opinions as close friends, I think we will help a lot of students having potential living issues. 
Work Cited 
Slotnik, Daniel E. "Can't We All Just Get Along?" The New York Times. 19 July 2012. Web 28 October 2014. 
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/22/education/edlife/experts-advise-on-roommate-conflicts.html?module=Search&mab Reward=relbias%3As&_r=0 
Robert C, De Witt. "Proper Training Crucial for Resident Assistants." The Chronicle Of Higher 
Education. 21 March 1990. Web 28 October 2014. 
http://chronicle.com/article/Proper-Training-Crucial-for/70087/ 
