Chinese student contribution in American universities 
		As China is becoming prosperous increasingly and has more interaction with America, the number of Chinese students who prefer to study in the US is increasing. Thus, ineluctably, numerous changes brought by Chinese students influence American universities in diverse aspects. And in my point of view, culture is one of the most crucial changes. I believe the original and creative Chinese culture contributes to a more vibrant American college life. And I suggest that Americans should embrace diversity. 
		There are three reasons why I consider "Chinese culture" is a contribution of America universities. From the perspective of college life, the emergence of foreign culture creates colorful American college lives. I have interviewed <name> for my interview paper, and he talks about Chinese food and traditional events. He says that: "It's becoming more and more common to have Chinese food in dining courts and restaurants. Some club leaders even prepare Chinese food when they have call outs. And you can see Americans start to get used to and love them. As for the traditional events, American students now can join in lots of attracting traditional Chinese activities. I believe that you have seen a group of American students become fond of Ping-Pong. And I know that Chinese students also introduce many interesting card games to American students. And Mid-autumn Festival is now well-known among American universities, some American students even participant in the dancing show of classical Chinese dance. In a word, they infuse American universities with new energy." From his words, we can see that Chinese food offered various delicious and novel foods to Americans, which also in some degree changes their eating style. What's more, traditional events attract American students impressively. I have seen American students participated in Chinese chorus and dance clubs. Chinese songs like "Little Apple" and folk dances fascinate them. 
		When it comes to the aspect of education, Chinese culture will give American students brand new global views. <name> I interviewed before can speak on instructors' behalf as a professor in Purdue University. "Having Chinese students in lectures is exciting, because they think in different, new, powerful sorts of ways. And Chinese students can tell American students through words or performance in academic or activities that the developing China has something advanced. For example, American students start to know that many big cities in China like Shanghai, Beijing are really much advanced in transportation than the US. So it's great to have students from other countries because it will let local students to get better prepared to work in a global environment. And American students begin to think they are getting more involved in the global environment because of Chinese students." It also reminds me of my personal experience. In one of my class, the topic is to discuss global affairs and the world after 2050. The professor expressed her excitement about having Chinese students in her class. Not only because China is now the second economy power of the world and has been considered as a vital of the U.S but also because Chinese students can express their views of the relationship between the U.S. and China. So she can have a comprehensive conclusion of that discussion. 
		Last but not least, let Americans know more about Chinese culture will also makes Chinese students get more engaged in American universities. One of the articles I used for my synthesis paper, the essay authored by Wayne Drash, " In lowa, globalization and a culture clash", discusses the integration problem. The essay says that ss some American students don't know much about China, they may not want to become friends with Chinese students and even say some aggressive words to Chinese students. Therefore, Chinese students feel they are not welcomed and began to hang out with Chinese people only, which will contributes nothing for them to get better integrate in American universities. So, if we reverse our thinking of this problem and let Americans know more about Chinese culture, they will know that China is a civilized country. Thus, Chinese students will have a lot more topics to communicate with American students and get more engaged in American universities. 
		However, some people believes that some Chinese students shows an impolite aspect of Chinese culture as they sometimes use some improper words or ways to talk with their instructors or classmates. Thus bringing a negative culture influence to American universities. But I would like to say that this is mainly due to the language barrier rather than Chinese culture. Most Chinese students behave politely and friendly. When it comes to talking, I believe Chinese students don't mean to say aggressive words or speaking with wired ways. They just have to develop their English speaking skills. 
		In a nutshell, I hope Americans can get more knowledge of Chinese culture. Thus it can maximize the contribution of Chinese culture: bring original college activities, provides American students with boarder views and get Chinese students involved in American life at the same time. 
