Argumentative Draft 1 
11/2/2015 
Elevation to a Whole New Level 
	Will Kobe Bryant be the best at all sports just because he is a sport star? People have a given lifetime and may be limited to developing strengths in new area, but it is a different story when discussing about a certain industry; although American agriculture industry is at the top notch in the global food market, there are still many areas that can be developed. The United States agriculture industry should pay more attention to hiring international agriculture business applicants because future international agriculture business employees can set themselves special in terms of importing diverse culture, new agricultural sales perspective, and new agricultural products. 
	Considering the fact that international students in America are already from different culture, it is easy to assume that they are bilingual (or more), more capable of relocating compared to domestic students, and aware of concepts of diversity. In addition, coming from a different environment, international students are likely to have unique perspectives that are developed from different environment. Such unique perspectives may lead to different approach in agriculture business. For example, it would be more necessary to have someone who is aware of both nations' culture instead of one during an international trade. Understanding local environment, tradition, culture, and technology is significant during the process of international trade. 
	There are unique agricultural and sales perspectives that can only be attained from international employees. Each country has different soil and weather. It is crucial to acknowledge acidity and moisture of soil along with the characteristics of each season throughout the year to successfully define what product a country has and what product that country needs. For example, South Korea has four distinct seasons with a wide daily temperature range. Therefore, the climate in South Korea leaves fixed list of imported products. An agricultural company must recognize such aspects and have a sales plan based on those aspects. In addition, many global companies that have their cultivating branches set in other countries must practice and learn the cultivation method that fits a country's climate; an international employee who is aware of both countries' culture, business mind, and way of communicating must be present to have a successful international trade route set up. 
	An international employee expertised in agriculture business can also bring a great accomplishment to his company by introducing new products to the market. Just as each country has different climate and soil characteristics, there are certain agricultural products that can only be cultivated in particular countries. There are many unique agricultural products that have the potential to become a hit if they were to be introduced in the global market; however, there is a very limited number of people who are experts in agriculture business coming from two or more cultural backgrounds while being familiar with both countries' agriculture industry. Nonetheless, if some of these products can be introduced, it will bring a sensation to the global food market. For example, persimmon is a very common fruit in some Asian countries. It can be eaten raw, dried, or fermented, and it is a very popular fall fruit in Korea and Japan. If persimmon can be introduced to the global food market by an agricultural company with huge size, it could possibly be sensational. Nevertheless, it is hard to have such product introduced to the global food market because there are numerous products that do not have the chance to be introduced to the global food market. If American agricultural companies that hold majority of world's food production become more active on hiring international applicants, such products can be simply introduced. 
	An international agriculture business employee in the United States can go back to his nation and work on the development of his country's agriculture industry. Since he is bilingual, willing to relocate, experienced, and knowledgeable after building up his career in the United States, going back to his country will result in a huge progress to his country's agriculture industry. In addition, the development of a certain nation's agriculture industry will improve the global food market in general, and will enhance the overall quality of agriculture products; thus, this huge progress can possibly solve food poverty around the globe. Since America is the leading agricultural country in the world, it should also lead the way through evolution by becoming more active on international recruitment. 
