The Improving of Learning Conditions for Better Grades 
	I believe that the conditions in which students are learning should be the most comfortable and conducive for learning. In order to achieve good results all around should accompany it. It is not a secret that many schools do not have the conditions to which students deserve. It is impossible to sum up all under one line in the field of education, to every man should be special approach, and only then the school will get good results and mutual return of their students. 
	The main argument is the quality of the education that give the school and the education system. The primary responsibility in ensuring the quality of education and development rests on the school administration, which should create the necessary conditions for the realization of goals, having carried out for this right and competent management steps. The quality of education depends on the resource supply of educational institutions. This, above all, the right personnel policy, activities of the teaching staff to preserve and maintain the health of children, the creation of material and technical base of the school. In modern conditions in the first place in order of importance for the head is staffing of the school. The quality of education is not possible without quality of teaching and education (Turkmen, 2013). 
	The next argument included the creation of new types of schools. Characteristic and distinctive features of new types of schools are to improve the quality of learning, humanization, different pedagogical innovation processes, high quality education, the use of modern educational technologies, high level of professionalism of teachers and logistics, availability of psychological services, participation in school management in addition to the administration, teachers, pupils, parents and the public (Hall & Perry, 2007). 
	The last strong argument can be found that the learning environment is changing. The giant changes permanently taking place in the technology sector. The society is also changing. We are all increasingly becoming a global society. That is why schools should adapt to changes in society, if they are going to continue to play a significant role in preparing young people to normal life in the modern world. The main role of schools today is not only to provide knowledge and skills, but also to prepare students for the new conditions of life. The child must learn to analyze the knowledge, to use it. They must develop the desire to be a full member of the society in which they live. Students must learn to be active and have a correct view of life, the role of labor and strong knowledge. In this regard, it is continued to constantly increasing the demands on schools and teachers. Parents, students and the public want that education will be of high quality, but conditions of teaching and learning achieved only when students, teachers and principals work together, using the philosophy and methods of improving the conditions in order to continuously improve the education system (Hall & Perry, 2007). 
	In terms of quality management, schools can offer a system with a set of processes and relationships. A set of values for the entire school can be determined on the basis of class meetings, meetings of all school staff and school board meetings. Every class is considered as the subsystem whose values may vary slightly from school property, and therefore the class discusses the school values and is a subset of which is then posted in a conspicuous place in the classroom. However, these values are not simply a list posted on the wall: students can describe the course of action for each case. Students always say for you that anyone in the class is not a "problem." When there is a problem, the entire class involved in its resolution, ever since it is the great possibility for improvement. The students also know what lies ahead. They realize their own goals, different requirements and tasks using the chart for registering forward. If they encounter difficulties, then look for someone who has already performed a specific task, and ask him for help. Also, a teacher and her students may collect certain data that show progress and identify those areas over which still need to work on. For example, students make their own records of the improvements. Other results are entered into a diagram that illustrates the performance of the whole class. All these data are collected during a certain time and then used to determine whether there are improvements (Leithwood & Patten, 2010). 
	In conclusion, it should be said that the learning environment should be improved. Only at a decent environment and labor education students can show good results. Thus, quality and conditions of education is the comprehensive system in which all components are interrelated and mutually reinforcing. In order to succeed, schools must operate the complex system. For the administration of the school management the quality of education in terms of modernization and improvement of the quality of education is becoming a priority in the work. Managers need the ability to quickly adapt to changing social-economic and cultural contexts of education, the ability to acquire the updated content and teaching technologies. 
