Argumentative Essay First Draft 
March 26, 2016 
Humans Dependence on Technology 
	In modern society the use of technology can be seen everywhere. One time I asked my 10 year-old brother, "what would make you happy the day of your birthday? He said "The new waterproof, 60 GB, Galaxy S5". This made me realize that we are becoming too reliant on technology. Are we overusing it and becoming dependent? Some might argue that the use of technology is good and leads to a proficient society. Others, like myself, argue that we are becoming too dependent on technology. Like many things, technology is good when used in proper amounts. The dependency can be seen in business structures, communication skills, and peoples' unrealistic thoughts of use. 
	The structure of how businesses and schools operate has drastically changed in a rather short period of history. Business and schools completely rely on technology. Some people are forced into technology use when going into business. "66% of employees now use two or more devices every day, including desktops, laptops, smartphones and tablets. A smaller, but notable 12% percent said they now use tablets at work. That's still far fewer than the 50% who report only using a desktop, or the 82% who use a desktop alone or alongside other devices"(Perez, 2014). These statistics show how many jobs rely on technology. If technology were to disappear, businesses would spiral out of control, proving dependency. The technology use in business starts with people learning how to use it in schooling. Schools have changed over to being almost completely through technology. Children at young ages are given i Pads and the books are found online. The old-school pen and paper is becoming extinct and according to the article by the U.S. Department of Education, Use of Technology in Teaching and Learning, technology can affect how teachers connect with students. This method of teaching will help students develop their own instruction and personalize learning (Funches, 2014). Clearly, the positives are shown, but with it comes with a huge negative where this article clearly proved the dependency. For example, if the schools' technology went down, the schools would go down. The way of learning is changing. People have learned from books and libraries for years, which is a proven system. Learning through technology is yet to be proven as much as the "old-school" way. This constant exposure to technology can draw kids to inappropriate websites, addictions, and loss of communication skills, but the worst part is the potential bullying technology brings. However, now kids have found ways to continue bullying through all hours of the day. Children will hear alerts from their computer at around 3 o'clock in the morning from people bullying them (Funches, 2014). It is unacceptable that children are bullied, but to be bullied at all hours could increase the likelihood of long psychological damage. 
	Besides technology's effect on businesses and schools, people's communication skills are proven to have changed. People view themselves from what the Internet says. In today's age if someone wants to express him or herself, it seems they have to use social media. The article Facebook Causes Depression New Study Says proves that Facebook causes depression. It states that the more someone uses it, the unhappier he or she becomes. Researchers at the University of Michigan observed 82 Facebook users during a two-week period and they noticed that the more time a person spends on Facebook, the more his or her feelings of well-being decrease and feelings of depression increase (Savastio, 2014). This shows that the technology we are wildly attracted too causes depression. People are constantly judged and becoming depressed over something they are addicted too. This shows a massive amount of negativity from our technological dependency. Due to the excessive usage of online chatting and shortcuts, the writing skills of today's young generation have declined quite tremendously (Martin, 2013). One example that proves this is that now people would rather type "idk" instead of "I don't know" or "u" instead of "you," which is something that affect those later on. 
	Although people might think that we can control how much we use technology during the day, but actually we cannot. Our smart phones and tablets allow us to take our email, our work, our games, our photos, our music - basically our entire life - with us wherever we go. As a result, all our individual realities have blurred into one (Burrus, 2012). People cannot deny this fact. It is so easy to use a smartphone and it is also very accessible, so we will indeed use it most of the time. Even if we are not on our cellphones for a couple of minutes, we are constantly thinking about where it might be or what could have happened to it. Many thoughts come up to our minds during the day, but it is certain that most of these considerations are regarding on our technologic devices. An interview with <Name>, showed me the importance that a smartphone has on a businessman's life because he explained the many things that he does with his smartphone such as playing with his kids or doing important phone calls. 
	Imagine our society in a power outage. What would happen? Purdue University alone would go into shambles. Dining courts would have no way of swiping people in, students could not turn in their homework, no one would know time changes, and people would struggle with traveling arrangements. "Nearly 100 percent of public schools in the United States have access to the Internet The Status of Computer and Internet Use in Schools." This shows clear dependence. Although there are clear advantages in technology, it does not make up for the severe dependency our society has developed. Technology like many things can be measured with pros and cons. Technology's pros could in theory outweigh the cons, but currently that is not the case. The digital age is taking over human lives in the purest form. Humans are becoming so technologically dependent it is scary. At the rapid rate we are going this can lead to many problems in the future. 
Reference 
Funches, A. (2014). Children's misuse of technology. Popular Culture and American Childhood. Retrieved from 
http://popcultureandamericanchildhood.com/2012/03/11/childrens-misuse-of-technology/ 
Perez, S. (2014). Forrester: 66% of employees use 2 or more devices at work, 12% use tablets. Tech Crunch. Retrieved from 
http://techcrunch.com/2012/10/10/forrester-66-of-employees-use-2-or-more-devices-at-work-12-use-tablets/ 
Savastio, R. (2013). Facebook causes depression new study says. Guardian Liberty Voice. Retrieved from 
http://guardianlv.com/2013/08/facebook-causes-depression-new-study-says/ 
Funches, J. (2014). Use of technology in teaching and learning. U.S. Department of Education. Retrieved from 
http://www.ed.gov/oii-news/use-technology-teaching-and-learning 
Martin, A. (2013). The four negative side effects of technology. Edudemic. Retrieved from 
http://www.edudemic.com/the-4-negative-side-effects-of-technology/ 
Gwinn, J. (2013). Overuse of technology can lead to 'digital dementia'. Memory Loss and Alzheimer's Prevention. Retrieved from 
http://www.alzheimers.net/2013-11-12/overuse-of-technology-can-lead-to-digital-dementia/ 
Burrus, D. (2012). Take control of your technology before it takes control of you. Huffingtonpost. Retrieved from 
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/daniel-burrus/take-control-of-your-tech_b_1820138.html 
1 
