Medical Marijuana Should Be Legalized 
Purdue University 
Final Draft 
Medical Marijuana Should Be Legalized 
Over few decades now, the congress, states, and doctors have been debating over whether medical marijuana should be legalized or not. Medical marijuana has been legalized in 26 states, and its uses have affected the medical field tremendously. Medical marijuana should be legalized for three simple reasons. One, it has great effect on diseases such as AIDS or HIV, which has yet to have a different medication than medical marijuana. Two, it is a powerful painkiller. Three, it has fewer side effects than most of the prescribed drugs. With these reasons alone, medical marijuana should be legalized in where ever it is necessary. 
	There are countless diseases around the world that have no solution to curing it. Recently, many of them got a solution using marijuana, which is a schedule one classified by the DEA (Drug Enforcement Administration) for is abusiveness. It has been shown that it is extremely effective as an appetite stimulator, which helps with HIV and cancer for its weight loss. Also it helps with severe nausea. Sometimes it is used to treat depressions and panic attacks. Many people have heard about AIDS, but most do not know what it means. AIDS stands for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome. Immunodeficiency means that the disease is characterized by a weakening of the immune system. Therefore, an AIDS means loss in body's immune system to a point where is it nearly impossible to defend any diseases causing nausea, appetite loss and anxiety. Just by the fact that it has its potential to lessen the symptoms of HIV/AIDS, it should be legalized because the ways to improve symptoms of HIV/AIDS are way too limited. 
	There are few things more frightening in life than receiving a cancer diagnosis. The only known way before the discovery of medical marijuana was hyperthermia which exposes body cells to extremely high temperature to kill the cancer cells. The problem with using hyperthermia is that it can kill not only cancer cells but also other healthy cells. However, with the discovery of the effectiveness of medical marijuana on the tumor cells doctors have worked with medical marijuana to help relieve the symptoms 
	Many of the people today take painkillers in their everyday life. However, since most people use them too often, they need multiple pills for it to show the effect. By in-taking multiple pills at a time when they aren't supposed to, it can be dangerous for the user. Now that doctors have found medical marijuana as a powerful painkiller, it can be used instead of the normal painkillers which people have grown immune to. Also marijuana is from the nature and have existed before people even knew anything about medication. While all of the painkillers that people use now days is man-made, medical marijuana is from the nature which makes it more supply able. Also Francis L. Young, DEA Administrative Law Judge, stated in his Sep. 6, 1988 court ruling that marijuana should be rescheduled to allow prescriptions. Even the DEA Administrative Law Judge thinks that marijuana should be rescheduled so that it can be used in the medical field. 
	While it is more easily supplied than other medicines, it is also safer and have less side effects than most of the other medications used today in the medical field. Marijuana seems like a dangerous material to be used as a medication. However, it is not as dangerous as most of the people think of them as. Most of the components of marijuana are actually healthy to the body. 
Also the current president of the United States, Barack Obama, said in an article by David Remnick on Jan.27, 2014 which was published in New Yorker "As has been well documented, I smoked pot as a kid, and I view it as a bad habit and a vice, not very different from the cigarettes that I smoked as a young person up through a big chunk of my adult life. I don't think it is more dangerous than alcohol." Leslie Iversen, Ph D, Professor in the Department of Pharmacology at the University of Oxford, wrote in his Oct. 2000 book The Science of Marijuana that "Cannabis is a safer drug than aspirin and can be use long-terms without serious side effects." Many doctors and even the president of United States agree with the usage of marijuana in the medical field. 
	Some people might disagree with the legalization of medical marijuana. If people's everyday life drug is more dangerous medication than medical marijuana, why should marijuana be illegal? Also if it is illegal because of it addictiveness, why aren't cigarettes and alcohols illegal? Cigarettes and alcohols are more hazardous to the human body than marijuana and even more addictive than marijuana without any benefits to be found in them. Joycelyn Elders, MD, former U.S. Surgeon General, wrote the following in a Dec. 14, 2002, said, "...tobacco, through its direct physical effects, kills many thousands of people every year. So does alcohol. And it is easy to fatally overdose on alcohol, just as you can fatally overdose on prescription drugs, or even over-the-counter drugs, such as aspirin or acetaminophen (the active ingredient in Tylenol). I don't believe that anyone has ever died from a marijuana overdose." Also some people might say that medical marijuana should not be legalized because of the potential harmful side effects that aren't discovered yet. Let's even say that medical marijuana has unknown side effect that can be extremely hazardous to patients. Still then, if a patient is in their danger such as HIV/AIDS where only medication to it is marijuana, their guardian are going to risk the chances in slim possibility of saving their family, friend, etc. 
At first, I also thought that medical marijuana should never be legalized. However, after conducting multiple researches and interviews, it changed my mind because marijuana can help the medical field tremendously. With help of the marijuana, our current medical field have evolved one more step. I still agree that marijuana shouldn't be legalized for its recreational purposes. However, it should be available to anyone who is in need of the medication. 
] 
Citations 
http://medicalmarijuana.procon.org/view.answers.php?question ID=000230 
http://medicalmarijuana.procon.org/view.answers.php?question ID=1325 
Congressional Research Service. (2010). Medical Marijuana: Review and Analysis of Federal and State Policies 
Craig Reinarmand Ph.D. , Helen Nunberg M.D. M.P.H., Fran Lanthier M.A. & Tom Heddleston M.A.92011) Who Are Medical Marijuana Patients? Population Characteristics from Nine California Assessment Clinics, Journal of Psychoactive Drugs, 43:2, 128-135, DOI:10.1080/0271072.2011.587700. 
Seamon, M., Fass, J., Maniscalco-Feichtl, M., & Abu-Shraie, N. (2007). Medical marijuana and the developing role of the pharmacist. Clinical Review, 64, 1037-1044. Retrieved February 25, 2015, from http://axon.psyc.memphis.edu/~charlesblaha/7705/Papers_08/samantha_daniel_medical_marijuana.pdf 
[Type text][Type text][Type text] 
3 
Title of your paper 
1 
Medical Marijuana Should Be Legalized 
