Is that worthy for Chinese students to study in the United States? 
Many universities in the U.S are currently experiencing a huge uptick in the number of undergraduate students from China. According to the statistics, the U.S universities enrolled almost 100,000 Chinese students between 2010 and 2012 (Zhao, 2013)1. Chinese students' population is about a quarter of all the international students in the U.S. According to an report, China sent 235, 597 of its students to study in the U.S in 2013 making the country the highest ranked country with the highest number of international students in the U.S (Zhao 2013). This number of students increased by 21% from 2012(Zhao 2013). This increase in the number of students is indicative of a trend that shows that many more undergraduate students from China are applying for admission in the U.S universities. I suggest that the U.S. universities should provide more opportunities of scholarship for international students. In this paper, I intend to show that there are more advantages than disadvantages for Chinese students who study in U.S universities. 
First of all, experiencing a more quality education is the most important benefit of study in the U.S. The American universities emphasize on the real world application of studies. Universities in the U.S. have the resource materials in their campuses that enable the students to get firsthand experience of the real work experience expected from them after they are through with their education. U.S higher education is more focused on innovation and leadership than Chinese university education. Top universities in the U.S that have well known schools internationally help Chinese students to acquire a top class education that enables the Chinese students get jobs nationally and internationally in regard to the reputation of the university and the skills they learn while on campus (Albatch 2014)2. Chinese students also attending U.S Universities are able to get firsthand information on where to get the best internships and jobs. They are also able to engage with employers of well-known companies enabling them to have an overview of their ideal careers even before they graduate. 
Secondly, Flexibility in education is another advantage of studying in U.S. The American higher education system provides flexible undergraduate programs for the Chinese students. Students are required to take different courses and are only required to declare their major at the end of their second year of study. The students can study a different major from the one they have indicated on their application forms and they are allowed to change their mind at least once. There are also a high variety of the courses that student can study in the U.S universities and most universities will even allow a student to create his/her own major incase one does not find a major of interest among the available programs. 
Last but not the least, American universities have well-funded university students clubs that are centered on shared interests. Most of these clubs encourage cross culture participation and most of these clubs promote an environment of tolerance and understanding among the students. Chinese students can gain a lot of experience in terms of diversity in regard to these clubs. One does not have to be African to join the Kuumba singers group at Harvard(Homeland Security)3. One can joined any club in the U.S universities not because of their race or ethnicity but because of their interests. 
Many people may argue that it is not worthy for Chinese students to study in U.S. because of the high tuition fees. I agree with that point, actually international students in U.S universities rarely receive state or federal grants or any financial aid. Thus, the average Chinese student pays a higher out of pocket tuition fee that an American student. However, compare with the universities in China that required a lower tuition fees, American colleges have a much more advanced education quality. So it is reasonable that the tuition fees is higher in U.S. and the money you spend on American universities is definitely worthy. Others may disagree that Chinese students may experience the culture shock in the United States. This is true and most Chinese students find themselves faced with unfamiliar culture in the U.S. They face cultural shock as they experience a different way of life, food, dressing, language and they miss their families back at home (Aker 2014)4. But it is not a bad thing to live in a totally different environment, leaving one's home and making a choice to study abroad is an educational experience for most U.S based Chinese students. The best time for a person to experience diversity is when one is still a student as when one completes his/her education he might not get a chance to travel abroad and experience the world's diversity. 
In conclusion, although the high tuition fees and the cultural shocks may be the problem for students who chose to study in the United States, it is obvious that the benefits of studying in America outweigh the disadvantages. It would also be wise for U.S based universities to offer more partial or full scholarships to international students who might not afford the high tuition fees in the institutions so that more students can learn in U.S. After the discussions, it is worthy for Chinese students to study in America. 
1 Zhao, Emmeline. Chinese students struggle for returns on education in U.S. The Wall street Journal, 27 March 2013. Web. 19 Nov. 2014 
2 Albatch, Philip. Chinese students in the U.S: A micro study. University World News, 29 Aug. 2014. Web. 19 Nov. 2014. 
3 Homeland Security. Number of Chinese students studying in the United States increases. Web. 19 Nov. 2014 
4 Aker, Roy. University courts Chinese students, reap benefits. Minnesota daily, 16 Oct. 2014. Web. 19 November 2014. 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
--------------- 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
