P5d3 
4/13/2015 
language cannot evidence everthing 
Researcher shows the language is not the most important part when we do a conversation. My partner do not agree with it, he thinks language fits one hundred percent when international students talk with local students and that why international students need to practice speaking firstly when we learning in America. 
However, My topic is based on the strategy of international students how to talk with local students. The "strategy" is a key world of my topic, language is only one part when we doing a conversation, it means that language is not one hundred percent. In other words except language there are also another elements can help or affect conversation. My topic serve for conversation this semester, any way just useful to talking is well. On the other hand, The material was searched in internet by myself clarifies that barriers from language that just represents 7 percent of what we communicate, which means even we cannot speak like the native speaker, nothing should be worried too much, we still can live and lean independently. 
My father's experience of traveling is a good example about aspect of life. He ever did a honeymoon journey with my mother to Bali. At the beginning of the traveling I am very doubt about them because my parents never learned English before. My father just ordered hotel and air ticket of Bali in China. I asked the whole traveling when my parents ho back home. My father told me the honeymoon in Bali is exciting, my mother is satisfied to Bali's beech and fresh air. However I am not interested about it. My attention is why someone has no ability of English can live in Bali happily. He told me language is not necessary or just fit small part in conversation. He also said body language is more important than English to himself, these actions can show what he want, what he want to present. After that, I believe language could not limit conversation totally. My father experience may is not a symbol example because not anyone can be a good performer like my father. However, we can see body language is survived because group of deformed man use sign language to show what they want. 
