ENG 106 I - I25 
P5 D1 
April 13th, 2016 
ARGUMENTATIVE 
	Should students in business school be required to take internships in order to graduate? Internships are something that now days is really common. Doing an internship can be of great advantages to the intern. Like for example; one is able to learn new techniques to study and improve, helps build a strong job resume and it is a perfect way to now if you want to continue studying your major. From most of the articles and research done on students in general internships are found to help students for the greater good. 
	The first advantage is the ability of learning new techniques and skills. Which means more effective ways of studying or just arranging daily schedule with much more ease. There is also the fact that at the time at the internship one realizes how passionate they are for their field of study (Talentsquare, 2013). With the internship experience one can understand tasks with much more ease as time passes. It is all because you get the direct experience and mentors correct the interns on their mistakes. Through this process the interns gain knowledge and learn more efficient ways for working. As well as through all this process the intern can gain new and valuable contacts for the future. (Huhman, 2011) 
	The second reason for internships being a great help for students is it helps build a better job resume. Having an internship on your job resume in one of the biggest advantage nowadays. As most employers prefers candidates with internship experience, because it's like they already know how the work life is and have direct experience (Hering, 2011). Moreover, from the next document it was mentioned that students with internships had a greater career success. (Gault, Redington, Schlager 2000). In general students that had completed an internship and had that in their resume's they had a greater advantage and received more benefits. Having an internship on your resume can be also a way to show your motivated, if your academic marks are not up to standard the internship covers up for that (Talentsquare, 2013). 
	The third reason of why internships are usually for the benefits for the students is by doing an internship. It is a perfect way to find out if the student wants to continue studying in the major they want to pursue. While doing an internship the student can get an insight the industry and figure out if this what he wants. By doing this the student can avoid great cost if all the money is spent to earn the wrong degree (Huhman, 2011). Through all the work at the end of the internship the intern can feel how his life will be like in the future and can start preparing from ahead and have a head start. The interns also experience diversified types of employers in through this overtime they can figure what type of company they want to work with in the future. Some might also find their role-models like this by being inspired by the perfect and right type of boss (Talentsquare, 2013). 
	Even with all the reasons stating quite obviously internships are beneficial. There is the fact that internships might just be all a waste of time. Some people might say while doing an internship you give up a big part of your day. This might all just be a waste of time instead one can do other stuff to be productive. As well as there is the fact internships are usually unpaid and this places some people in great financial burden. On the other hand, there is the fact that a lot of people say that internships are very beneficial. It helps in so many ways like example learning new techniques which makes life easier. 
	To sum up after conducting many studies and couple of interviews with experts I was able to generalize that internships has countless of advantages. On the other hand, there is a cost for doing internships which causes a great amount of trouble for some interns. Having the response from students that have completed internships, majority of them recommended almost all the new students to complete internships. Internships most the times I not that easy but through mistakes is how we learn not to make them again! 
REFRENCES: 
Gault, J., Redington, J., & Schlager, T. (2000). Undergraduate Business Internships and Career Success: Are They Related? 45-53. Retrieved from http://jmd.sagepub.com/content/22/1/45.full.pdf html 
Talentsquare. (2013, July 8). 6 Reasons To Do An Internship While Studying. Retrieved from https://www.talentsquare.com/blog/6-reasons-why-you-should-do-an-internship-while-studying/#disqus_thread 
Huhman, H. (2011, April 29). Why You Should Get a Summer Internship. US News. Retrieved from http://money.usnews.com/money/blogs/outside-voices-careers/2011/04/29/why-you-should-get-a-summer-internship 
Hering, B. (2011, April 14). Why are internships so important? CNN. Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2010/LIVING/worklife/04/14/cb.why.internships.important/ 
