Positive Effects of Games and Their Applications on Education 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This paper explores three published articles that report several research or opinions on how computer/video games are affecting people, especially youth. Granic, Lobel, and Engels (2014) pointed playing video games has lots of benefits. These can be found as cognitive, motivational, and emotional benefits, and they also claimed "serious" games can play an important role in health and education. On the other hand, however, Norcia (2014) has pointed that she is particularly concerned by the violent content, which is frequently present in computer/video games. Considering the positive and negative effects of computer/video games, Bowen (2014) suggested although gaming has violence, its benefits are far more than its negatives. This paper will also discuss some possible ways to apply digital games in education as Dolan, Frey, Mc Vay and Orr (2012) suggested. 
Effects of Computer/Video Games and Their Applications on Education 
	It was claimed that playing computer/video games is bad for people and especially the youth. Students who play computer/video games a lot generally have worse grades than those who do not. However, I believe it is a bias that computer/video games are only bad for young people and have no benefits on them. Computer/Video games can actually train people as well as those traditional games can. Originally starting with a debate among psychologists, people have taken a closer look at the positive effects of computer/video games, and with knowing the negative effects, especially those caused by the violence in games, numerous studies have been made in order to maximize the positive effects of games, apply game elements in other field such as education and health, and limit games' negative effects. This paper examines Bowen's opinions as well as Granic et al.'s research against other research showing computer/video games are overall bad for young people, and conducts Dolan et al.'s idea about how to make use of games in education. 
	Important research shows video games, including violent shooter games, may boost young people's learning, health and social skills (Bowen, L 2014). That research particularly compared role-playing games and other types of video games like puzzles. After a long-term study, it was reported that the more strategic video games played, the more improved in problem solving and school grades the following year. Similar results can also be found in Granic et al.'s research report. Granic et al.'s research shows a result that playing shooter video games (often known as action games, and many of them are violent) particularly promotes a wide range of cognitive skills. The result was that the participants who were assigned to play shooter games has shown faster and more accurate attention allocation, higher spatial resolution in visual processing, and better mental rotation abilities (Lobel, A. 2014). All these help with people's problem solving ability and student's learning ability, and this is true with Bowen's thought, and as well as a strong refute to those beliefs that playing video games is sedating. People may think playing computer/video games will take much time from students preventing them from focusing on study. However, I agree with the previous researchers' opinions that playing more complex games (strategy games) can permanently improve people's problem solving and logical thinking skills, which will essentially help with their grades. In addition, role-playing games can also improve people's communication. Cummings, Butler, and Kraut (2002) has suggested that face-to-face interactions are more effective than computer-mediated communication (CMC) for example read emails, but his research only considered simple CMC. For people who are not able to go outside, for example patients, playing online video games provides them a good opportunity to communicate with people other than their doctors. 
	Some people may be still concerned about the violent content in video games, especially those shooter games I have previously stated. Many research also shows that video games with violent content are linked to more aggressive behaviors in teens. This is because of violent acts are commonly contained in video games. (Norcia, A. 2014) However, the truth is that video games do not only contain violent contents. Apart from the violent video games, there are also games like "Angry Birds" that is funny and can improve player's mood because they are easy to play (Bowen, L. 2014). It has further been suggested that some of the most intense positive emotional experiences are triggered in the context of playing video games. (Mc Gonigal, 2011). "If playing video games simply makes people happier, this seems to be a fundamental emotional benefit to consider," said Granic. That is why I am not concerned about the violence in video games. 
	 Games can actually be used in education as well. As I previously mentioned, many people, especially parents, don't like video games because they think the more people play, the worse their grades are. Dolan et al.' report has proved that games can be used in education, and suggested some keys about how to use digital games elements in education. This includes built on sound learning principles, provide more engagement etc. Digital games are not opposed to any other learning innovation, but the combination of motivation, engagement, simulation, and data collection. All these cannot be achieved at scale by any other ways. In addition, as I a college student, I agree with the opinion that young people prefer to study actively than passively (Dolan P.R. 2012). It is that I prefer to learning things by playing a video game or in class activities rather than watching videos, online modules, or sitting and listening. It is actually also considered more effective for students to study actively. Fortunately, more and more people have realized that games can actually be applied to education and motivate students learning. 
	In order to grab a complete understanding of playing computer/video games' positive and negative effects. It is necessary to conduct studies on what types of video games are good for young people and what are not as good as those. Different than simple considering games bad, it is necessary to understand the advantages that playing games has built on game players. In addition, people should no longer claim that games are opposed to learning, and start to apply gaming elements of patterns to education. 
Reference 
Bowen, L. (2014). Video game play may provide learning, health, and social benefits. Upfront, Feb 2014, Vol 45, No.2, Page 10. 
Dolan, P.R, Frey, P.M., Mc Clarty, K., Mc Vay, A., & Orr, A. (2012). A Literature 			Review of Gaming in Education. Pearson. 
Granic, I., Lobel, A., & Engels, R. (2014). The Benefits of Playing Video Games. 			American Psychologist, Jan 2014, Vol 69, No. 1, 66-78 
Mc Gonigal, J. (2011). Reality is broken: Why games make us better and how they can 		change the world. New York, NY: Penguin Press 
Norcia, A. (2014). The impact of video games. Retrieved on April 15, 2015. 				http://www.pamf.org/parenting-teens/general/media-web/videogames.html 
3 
POSITIVE EFFECTS OF GAMES 
1 
Running head: POSITVE EFFECTS OF GAMES 
