Transportations in West Lafayette 
	Are you the type of person who like fresh air or like staying in the warm room? Are you an outgoing person who are more willing to talk with others or stay by your own? Are you rich or poor? Choosing the best transportation for you to go to class in Purdue campus is a kind of science that needs you to think that many factors. If you do not ask yourself these question before you choose the way go to class, you might feel uncomfortable or tired when your school days start. My main topic is talk about the transportations in West Lafayette and help people find their best way go to class. For different person, there is always a most suitable transportation for him depending on different situation. 
	In the Purdue campus and the whole Lafayette area, there is a very efficient transportation for students who live in campus or who like go to class with their classmates called City Bus provided by Lafayette Government. City Bus collaborate with Purdue on providing free service to Purdue students. That means for student who hold Purdue student ID card, it is free to have a ride. There are more than 10 lines of city bus which goes different places inside the Purdue campus and they can send student to most buildings or places inside Purdue from their dormitory. Most bus pass through the dormitory 4 times an hour. So the time schedule for you to choose is very flexible. The Travel New York (2014) give us reasons why should people take bus rather than other transportation ways to work. The first reason author give us is "better use of personal time". What Travel New York (2014) says is while we are on our way to work in the bus, we can do many other things that we want like catch up emails, text your friends or review your class. You can never do these things while you are driving or cycling. The second reason why people should choose commuting by bus in their daily life would be the convenience. "The bus can often get you much closer to where you want to be than a car. This is especially useful in bad weather or when carrying heavy bags."(Travel York, 2014) Buses can send you to most places and you no longer need to walk any farther. The third reason would be the physical and mental health. "Getting off a stop or two earlier can also be an easy way of building up your physical activity."(Travel York, 2014). If you like social activity, you might want to communicate with your friends or classmates on your way to school every day in the bus. It helps students know each other better by putting people who go to similar class each morning. If you live inside the campus and like the life on campus and not going out of town very often, it might be a very good choice for you to choose the city bus. Also for student who does want to pay much on daily transportation and willing to communicate with others, I think taking the City Bus to school would be a very good way. If you are a person who cares more about the personal space, then you should choose the rest of two transportations I will mention later. 
	Cycling to class is also a very comfortable way for students who live in campus and like to have some fresh air every morning. Purdue and West Lafayette government build many bike path this year in order to make Purdue more bike friendly. The Queensland Government (2014) notes that riding a bike is convenient and practical way to incorporate regular exercise into your busy day. Riding a bike can help you relax and breathe more fresh air from the nature. "Cycling 10km each way to school or work save 1500 kg greenhouse gas emissions each year." (Queensland Government, 2014) In the article author also talked about how riding the bike can protect our environment for us. There is also economic benefit. Cycling can save you more money than driving. Driving costs average 79 cents per kilometer. In comparison the cost of buying and maintaining a bike is much cheaper than car. Compare to City bus, Cycling might need you to buy a bike first but that would be the only cost. Cycling to school can help you breathe more fresh air each morning also take some exercise before you step into classroom. This might help you keep energetic at the beginning of the day. The time schedule is even more flexible than taking the City Bus. You can choose whenever you like to cycling to school. Cycling also helps to keep you fit. For student who would like to lose some weight, cycling to class every day helps you decrease 680 calories if you do it for 1 hour. If you enjoy the flexible schedule and enjoy having some exercise before joining the class, why not riding a bike to school? For students who like fresh air, cycling to class in Purdue might be a good choice. But if you are not a sporty boy, city bus might be more suitable for you. 
	Driving to class every morning is an enjoyable thing for most college students who wants more personal space and high living quality. It gives you a warm and private space on your way to school. Also, when the time is easy to find a parking space, driving to school is faster than cycling and taking the bus to school. And by owning a car, you can choose more places to live inside the town. Usually people who live off campus have better living quality than people who live in the dorm. No matter what kind of weather it is, you can always drive your car to school. You can also take your friend or the girl you like to school each morning so that develop your social relationship. Driving to school also cost you more. First of all you need to buy a vehicle, then you have to pay for the gasoline. It cost average 1.3$ per mile you drive. If you are rich and have a driving license, then it will not be a problem for you to drive to school. For students who are rich and want to enjoy the personal space and living quality, owning a car and driving to school is your best choice. But if you are not that rich and think diving might be hard to you, it will not be your best choice then. 
	As we can see, all three transportations have their advantages. There is no best way go to class for all students but the most suitable way for yourself. You need to consider the cost, time, weather, personal characteristic and health when you are choosing your best way go to school. Also, in order to help students more comfortable on their way school, I hope Purdue can build more garages for people who drive their cars and build more bike path for students who cycling to class. The daily life in Purdue will be better. 
Queensland Government. (2014). Cycling benefits. 
Retrieved from http://www.tmr.qld.gov.au/Travel-and-transport/Cycling/Benefits.aspx 
Travel York. (2014). Why take bus. 
	Retrieved from http://www.itravelyork.info/buses/why-take-the-bus 
