Negative Effects of Fashion can Become Positive Effects 
Argumentative Paper 
April 27, 2015 
Purdue University 
Author Note 
Abstract 
As a student of Purdue University and student of English106i I decided to research about the positive and negative effects of fashion on teenagers. I researched extensively through journals, academic papers and an interview. Coming to a conclusion that explains that the negatives effects of fashion outweighs the positive effects. Teenagers try to become the people they see in different type of media, this provokes behaviors that threaten their health. Materialism is also a negative effect of fashion; it is proved that materialism lowers teenager's self-esteem. The psychological effect of judgment of appearances, don't let teenagers express themselves through fashion, which leads them to fear people's comments and fear expressing the way they think through their fashion style. Therefore, knowing all of these effects I came with a solution that proposes parents and teachers to educate their children to stop judging people and media to cover more of the "love your own type of body campaigns", so teenagers can turn the negative effects into positive effects and take advantage of what fashion can do for them. 
Key words: fashion, teenagers, style, media, fashion magazines, materialism, and judgment. 
Negative Effects of Fashion Can Become Positive Effects 
During my past months I have been extensively researching about the positive and negative effects that fashion has on people especially teenagers. Fashion is important because you can express what you think, what you feel, what you are, through what you are wearing. I am interested in this topic because I blog about fashion, therefore I feel responsible of the effects that fashion produces on teenagers. Fashion is a very controversial topic, during my research in which involved reading several academic papers, journals and making an interview I found that the negative effects outweighed the positive effects. Therefore, for this final project I want to show teenagers the negative effects of fashion and also find a solution for them to overcome those effects and approach fashion without getting hurt. At the end of this project my goal is to let teenagers know that they can make their own style, that they can dress how they want and still be in style, and that they can turn the negative effects into positive effects, like designer Versace said "Don't be into trends. Don't make fashion own you, but you decide what you are, what you want to express by the way you dress and the way you live." (Saxe, 2014). 
Teenagers are really concerned about how they look and what people think about them. They take it as a way to fit in, so they use clothing as an excuse to be part of something instead of a way to express their feelings. This is when the problem begins for them because they try to become the people on magazines; they try to have the "perfect body" for the sake of looking good on clothes and fitting in between their peers on school and this also leads them to health and psychological problems. Turner, Hamilton, Jacobs, Angood and Dwyer (1997) proved this type of behavior. They proved that the people who read more fashion magazines were more worried about the weight and the fear of not being at least an average body type, in contrary to the ones who read news magazines. 
We understand that teenagers have become really materialistic and are more worried for what people think about them, than being themselves. Fashion takes a big part in the materialistic world. Studies have shown that materialism makes people feel lonely and unhappy. " An experimental study showed that highly materialistic US adolescents who received an intervention that decreased materialism also experienced increases in self-esteem over the next several months, relative to a control group." (Kasser et al. 2013). As a teenager myself I know how teenagers want to show off what they have, their brand new purse or their brand new shoes, etc. I think teenagers shouldn't be worrying to much about having the new trend of clothes but they should make their own sense of style. Part of this behavior are most of the parents of the teenagers who don't know how to educate their children in a world were material things are one of the most important things. 
Another reason for teenagers to think this way is that people judge. People judge you for what you are wearing, for first impressions, which is more of a physical evaluation of the other person. Researchers Howlet, Pine, Orackcioglu and Fletcher (2013), who researched about explain about the influence of apparel in first impressions, they support my statement saying: 
We conclude that even apparently minor modifications to clothing style can have a major impact on the information conveyed to perceivers. People are judged on their overall head-to-toe appearance within seconds, and the fundamental role that choice of apparel plays in creating a positive first impression cannot be underestimated. 
This proves that people judge you for the most minimum things of your appearance especially for the cloth you are wearing. That is why teenagers don't feel in their right to wear different type apparel, they are afraid of people's comments. This produces a big psychological effect on them that can become a major problem in their social behavior and health too. 
On the contrary, people can take all the judgments as a positive effect and take advantage of fashion to make people think in a good way and to perform better. According to researcher Galinsky (2012) Enclothed Cognition theory "Reminds people that clothes aren't just a device of perception, but a tool that can really affect how you perceive yourself," (cit. in Mc Gregor, 2012) clothes not only affect the way that people see you but the way you see yourself and how you behave and think. This explains way people feel more elegant and more professional when they wear a suit to work, or when woman dresses up for an elegant event and wears heels they usually show more confidence because they feel more beautiful than regular. 
Finally, for all of these reasons I think that fashion has its negative effects but it is on people's hands to make of fashion a negative thing or a positive thing. Fashion can also be a way to express yourself, your feelings and your way of thinking. To learn how to approach fashion in a positive way, first I would suggest teachers and parents to educate their kids to stop judging other people for what they are wearing and focus more in their personalities and abilities rather than in their appearance. They should teach teenagers to overcome the negative effects of fashion by making them realize that they don't have to be or look like the person of the magazines. Media has also a responsibility with teenagers in this topic so they should cover more of the "love your own type of body" campaigns. 
