The influence of exam-driven education in China 
Purdue University 
(Draft 1) 
The influence of exam-driven education in China 
	Studying the exam-driven education in China for more than ten years, I believe that the exam-driven education system in China has both advantages and disadvantages. Though some people will argue the existence of advantages of this system, and insist that the system like this gives too much burden to children in young age. However, in the whole picture, the exam-driven education system and college entrance exam is what fits the reality of the society in China. Indeed, it has its disadvantages, but we can't deny its positive affect on China's society. 
	No one can doubt that the high pressure from the exam-driven education in China hurts the mental health of the new generation a lot. A normal phenomenon in the system which decides the enrollment of college through a single exam is that educators may pay too much attention to the score of their students. It is not just in the high school, but in every stage of the education. In order to get in to good high school where children can get better education resource to prepare for the college entrance exam, children need to take another exam, and they need to prepare for that in middle school. It is the same idea for students in elementary school to prepre for exam for better middle schools. Therefore, students need to face an important exam in every stage of their study life, so it is possible that educators focus on their score on every stages of their study life. According to Clifford N. Jack(2015), judging the kids by their score may hurts them a lot and kills their confidence in other aspect. We can easily say that the exam-driven education system in China can hurt the mental heath of the students. 
	What's more, everyone has his own intelligence and should not be limited by a single exam. According to Dr. Howard Gardner(1983), people have eight different aspect of intelligence, and we should pay equal attention to people who have intelligence in different aspects. Rather than fitting what Dr. Howard said, the exam-driven education system focus too much on linguistic and logical-mathematical intelligence. Students who have intelligence in other six aspects can not develop their intelligence in the exam-driven based school. What's more, the college entrance exam is not fair for those people who have intelligence in other aspects rather than in linguistic and logical-mathematical intelligence. 
	In spite of the disadvantages mentioned above, the exam-driven education system has its own advantages. 
	First of all, the exam-driven education system has its rationality in the society of China. Zheng R. L.(2010) wrote "giving everyone an equal opportunity to participate in higher education and to compete for society's resource is the foundation for the existence of the college entrance exam system." No one can doubt the fact that quality and fairness are the most severe issues government should concern in the college enrollment progress. The population in China is so huge that higher education resource is far less than enough. In the progress of competing for education opportunity, corruption occurs. According to Zheng, China is a large developing country where interpersonal relationships are especially valued and social resources are fairly scarce, the public anxiety about the longing for fairness are more intense in comparison with the feelings of the citizens of many other countries. Therefore, the college entrance exam which can shows fairness directly through score fits the need of equality of the citizens. Also, the college entrance exam plays a multiple role which has more than education affect in the society of China. Zheng(2010) suggests that it performs educational, cultural, political, and other multifaceted social functions. 
	Moreover, the college entrance exam which is the base of the exam-driven education system in China somehow can value the candidates effectively. According to Wei H., Feng L., Li G. (2014) the exam can show the performance in college of the examees. " The information includes individual student information, their college entrance exam score, their academic achievement from their college studies, and their employment information." they wrote in their report. Therefore, it's a report which can show the relation between score of college entrance exam and performance in college. And they gave a positive comment to the college entrance exam, "we found that college entrance exam scores have significant positive effects on academic performance during college." Besides, students that can have good performance with the huge tense of college enrollment certainly have excellent ability to deal with their emotion which is a important ability. 
	In a word, the exam-driven education system in China, which is based on the college entrance exam has both advantages and disadvantages. We can't deny the existence of its advantages, but we should still get it reformed to overcome the shortcoming of the Chinese educational system. 
reflection 
Dr. Howard Gardner, 1983, The multiple intelligence theory, http://www.institute4learning.com/multiple_intelligences.php 
Wei, H.& Feng, L.,&Li, G.(2014). Does China's National college entrance exam effectively evaluate applicants? Front Econ China,9(2) p.174-182 
	ZHENG, R.(2010). On the rationality of the college entrance examination. Chinese education and society. vol.43, no.4, pp11-21. 
[Type text][Type text][Type text] 
3 
The influence of exam-driven education in China 
1 
Running head: The influence of exam-driven education in China 
