P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 16, 2015 
Independent Travel 
Most people suffer a lot of stress from work and study in their daily lives. Hence, most of them have the tendency to pursue freedom and get rid of the troubles to let their body and mind have a rest. There are several ways for people to release pressure and get relaxed, and independent travel seems like a good way which can satisfy people's needs. Therefore, people should choose independent travel to release pressure and improve their lives. 
One of the reasons why independent travel is a suitable way to help people is that it brings a lot of excitement to people's daily lives. Most people might have the feeling of unfulfilled and disappointed toward their lives, since they do almost the same work and repeat it day by day. What they need now is something different to color their lives. Independent travel, a type of travel which requires people to plan the schedule all by themselves and deal with all kinds of things they meet during travel, is an effective way to satisfy people's needs. Tsaur, S., Yen, C., & Chen, C defined knowledge constructs on the article "Independent tourist knowledge and skills" into three parts: onsite travel capability, pre-trip preparation, and emergency response(Tsaur, S., Yen, C., & Chen, C., 2010, p. 1053) It's definitely not an easy work, however, this is exactly why it is excited. Stay in another country, people would enjoy the different culture and concentrate on those unfamiliar and interesting things. Besides, exploring the unknown world and having an adventure can stimulate people's curiosity and thus could help them forget the unhappy things and troubles for the moment. It might help to get depressed mood release during travel and leave people feeling light and relaxed unconsciously. Travel puts some unexpectedness, what was lacking and missing in most people's lives today. Unexpected things made them feel exciting and interesting. During travel, people not only release their pressure and stress, but also it fills the voids of people's boring daily lives. Therefore, independent travel seems like the best way for people to improve their lives. 
Sitting on chairs and working with computers on the office from day to night would damage people's health both mentally and physically. Working long time with computers might impair people's eyesights, also, computer radiation is harmful for healths. It would be better if people can go outside and enjoy the beauty of nature, take a breath of fresh air, to stretch, to get natural light into their computer-strained eyes. Besides, busy on handling with a lot of works and dealing with all kinds of personal relationships makes them suffer a lot pressure. Travel independently, people are free to do anything they want without considering others. So they can put all the things, all the troubles from work or study behind them, and focus on the nature, the beauty of world. Doing some outside exercise such as hiking could make their weak arms and legs get stronger, and people's minds would be purified deeply by enjoying the power of nature. Travel requires people to keep walking, keep accepting new things and keep acquiring knowledge at the same time, but people will not feel boring at all, since all the things around them are attractive enough to make them forget the tiredness. It is a way that could make people easy to accept and help them unconsciously without any pain. 
