Sequenced Writing 
04/24/2016 
Argumentative Essay - Final Draft 
Long-Distance Relationships among College Students 
	As more and more college students including friends around me are getting involved in long-distance relationship, I became very interested in this topic at the very beginning of this assignment. So I decided to compare and contrast long-distance (LD) relationship with geographically close (GC) romantic relationship and therefore did a lot of internet searching about LD relationship among college students. I came up with several guiding questions that could help me think and figure out how to organize my essay. The questions can be concluded to the following questions that are also the ones I asked my interviewee, <Name>: Is LD relationship popular among college students and why (or why not)? What are the major differences between LD and GC relationship? What is the most important motivation to maintain a long-distance relationship? With all the questions above, I started to dig into the resources that I got. My conclusion is that college students who are engaged in LD relationship tend to break up with their partners compared to geographically close (GC) couples due to inevitable geographical separation, limited contact and their idealization of future life. I know this seems to be a very subjective and pessimistic opinion but I would rather describe this as realistic understanding. Besides, there even was a definitely opposite idea stating that "LD relationships are of equal or even more trust and satisfaction than their geographically close (GC) counterparts" (Jiang and Hancock, 56). However, I still hold up to my ideas and I will back up my ideas with detailed reasons explaining why I believe LD relationship is not a promising way for young couples like college students to have. 
	First, inevitable geographical separation is the major characteristic that differentiates LD relationship from GC one and also the biggest obstacle that comes between the LD couples. In a word, distance is the key factor. This is agreed both by me and the people with opposite opinion but we believe differently in how distance plays a different part in one's relationship with their partner. The people who take an opposite stand in this topic claim that despite the geographical separation, couples manage to maintain their relationships because of the widespread use of communication technology. However, I could not agree with them. College students, at their early 20s, normally care more about everyday satisfaction that their current relationships could provide. In other words, even though almost every college student now uses at least one real-time communication tools with their friends no matter they could meet every day or not, they prefer to be with people who can give them higher level of happiness. In this sense, even if the person is currently in love with someone in distance, he or she could gradually get tired of communicating via Internet only. According to an article, "A Qualitative Analysis of Loneliness Dynamics Involved with College Long-Distance Relationships" by Michael W. Firmin, Ruth L. Firmin and Kailee Lorenzen, "loneliness tends to be acute after seeing the boyfriend, around holidays, when their friends go on dates, on 'bad' days, when seeing other happy couples on campus," which can make things worse (57). And the lack of face-to-face communication can generate a fake romantic feeling between couples that will not last long in the future. I have seen several friends of mine who became couples at first broke with each other in the end. They told me that by the time they finally got the chance to see each other, they felt somewhat awkward because they both had changed in a way and had lost the intimate feeling they used to have. 
	Besides, the first point can lead to the second one which is limited contact. In my opinion, limited contact can be very lethal in a LD relationship. Some people, such as my interviewee, argue that lack of communication is a lethal point for both LD and GC relationships because the efficiency of communication is the key factor that decides everything. Even for a GC couple, if they do not sincerely communicate with each other, they will also face a sad ending of their relationship. On the other hand, a LD couple are very likely to maintain their relationship if their communication is very efficient. I agree with their argument but mine takes a different stand in this question. As we all know, not all relationships go well all the time. As college students are getting busier than ever, it is likely that their communication is becoming less and less. And of course, lack of communication generates lots of problems. Therefore, when a problem or a crisis comes up, the way a couple deal with it is very important. In a dissertation about LD relationship, the author pointed out that "In GCRs, partners can see each other and communicate physically when desired; so they may maintain proximity by watching movies or TV together and talking over meals or coffee or while doing homework" (Bloom 41), but a LD couple can only communicate via technology use. One can refuse to answer the phone or reply to the messages but it is hard to avoid a meeting. And sometimes, a face-to-face talk with eye contact is the most efficient and useful way to settle a problem and smooth over a crisis. It is crucial to deal with the rift correctly if the couple still want to be with each other in the future. 
	Finally, speaking of the future, having an idealization of a mutual future life also contributes to the relationships. Basically, a person chooses to be with someone that she or he can picture their future. Imagine if you have no idea what your future life will be like with that person, would you be sure to spend your time with him or her? Here, I rule out those people who engage in a relationship just for fun. But if someone really wants to take the partner seriously, a mutual future life goal is indispensable. However, idealization could be a good or a bad thing. For a LD couple, there are so many uncertainties that could destroy their relationship. For example, a friend of mine decided to apply for the same university her boyfriend applied for but she failed to be admitted to the university. According to butterfly effect, this can cause large effects afterwards and therefore change everything. I might be pessimistic to a certain extent but one should not underestimate the big influence of uncertainty. For this couple, they may realize that their former mutual life goal is not practical now and end up staying in different places and having total different lives in the future. In this case, idealization doesn't help at all. 
	Here, the ideas above are my personal views about this LD relationship among college students but they are backed by many researches and dissertations. Even though according to my paper, the LD couples tend to break up with each other due to inevitable geographical separation, limited contact and their idealization of future life, I still hope they could have a good and happy ending finally. Best wishes. 
Work Cited: 
Bloom, Amanda L. "Explaining Relationship Satisfaction: Attachment, Technology use, and 
Sexual Satisfaction in Long-Distance Relationships." Order No. 3736752 Purdue University, 2015. Ann Arbor: Pro Quest. Web. 6 Mar. 2016. 
Firmin, Michael W., Ruth L. Firmin, and Kailee Lorenzen. "A Qualitative 
Analysis of Loneliness Dynamics Involved with College Long-Distance Relationships." College Student Journal 48. 1 (2014): 57-71. Academic Search Premier. Web. 6 Mar. 2016. 
Jiang, Crystal L., and Jeffrey T. Hancock. "Absence Makes the Communication Grow Fonder: 
Geographic Separation, Interpersonal Media, And Intimacy in Dating Relationships." Journal of Communication 63. 3 (2013): 556-577. Communication & Mass Media Complete. Web. 6 Mar. 2016. 
5 
