Argumentative Essay First Draft 
11/2/2015 
During the past weeks I have been researching on how terrorism affects the hospitality industry. While searching about this topic I came up the effect of social media. I realized that social media and the location of hotels of are two of the most important things that determine how a social issues affects a hotel. In this paper I am going to talk about the control that social media has over us. 
Through a survey, I asked a group of people, mostly between the ages of 17-55, if social media affected their daily life. 81.4% of the people admitted that social media affected their live, but there were still people who said no. In this essay I'm going to explain why and how does social media control our life. 
Since we are really young social mass is a part of our socialization process. Family, education and peer groups are also part of this process. Socialization is essential for a person to develop and we have come up to the point where social media has to be a part of it. For example, millennials, are exposed to the TV, radio and internet since they are born. Babies nowadays know how to use an i Pad and You Tube when they are two years old. The information kids learn through social media is impossible to prevent. Schools and Universities work with this social media every day, and education is also a part of socialization. 
The information we get through social media can not always be true. Actually most of the times the information is distorted so that way we only now what they want us to know. We tend to believe almost everything we see on TV, and everyday more what we see on our phones. 
Researching about the hotel industry I realized that some countries like Egypt are more affected by social issues than countries like England. Egypt had long term effects and England short term effects. One of the main reasons were that England was normally a business place to travel so people would still go there and Egypt was a leisure place so people would change easily their destination. The other reason I found is how media presents that information in each country. The information that social media present is always biased and not accurate. For example, if you read the same new in two different newspapers from different countries you'll realize that it isn't the same thing. They might be similar but how they tell the story is all a tactic to make you believe one thing or an other. 
However, there are people who don't think social media affect how they think. In the survey I did online there was a 20% of the people that took it that think that social media does not affect them. It could be that they are not connected to the TV or phone a lot of time. In the end they are still affected because social media is everywhere, even if we try to avoid it. For example, if you take public transportation you will probably be exposed to a radio or even a TV. 
Social media has a lot of power in kids and youngsters. The reason of this is because it is easier to influence younger people than older people who already have their way of thinking. Either ways social media still affects everyone because we are exposed to it all the time everyday even if we try to avoid it. 
In conclusion. Social media has the power to control our way of thinking and we need to learn how to control that. We can't get rid of social media because it is also a part of our life and it also has a lot of positive aspects, but it has to be more accurate. 
