Argumentative Essay, Draft 3 
04/23/2016 
	In March of 2016, there was an event that surprised so many people all around the world. The artificial intelligence called Alpha Go, created by Google, won the Go game against Lee Sedol, arguably best Go player in the world. Before the game started, most of people betted on Lee to win because not only Go is very complicated game (For example, Go has 361 first moves), but also it requires some creativity to win (Swan, 2016, para 2-3). However, the reality was different. Alpha Go won 4 matches out of 5 matches versus Lee, and it brought huge interest toward artificial intelligence and robots. 
	Little more than a decade ago, people were shocked and started to have interest on robots thanks to the humanoid named ASIMO, developed by Honda. According to Honda Manhattan, ASIMO could run without colliding, climb stairs, reach and grasp for objects, read faces, and become familiar to some individuals (Honda Manhattan, 2014, para 3), and these skills of ASIMO were enough for people who were living in 2000 to bring their attention to robots. As it shown in aforementioned 2 examples, robots have great potential to surprise people with its technology, and this great technology of robots can change the world forever when they are fully developed. Therefore, development of robots is necessary. 
	First, development of robots is essential because robots can provide much more safety to people than before. Atlas, humanoid robot developed by Boston Dynamics, was built for one reason: save people from risky environment where it is hard for human to approach. According to Boston Dynamics (2013), "Atlas is a high mobility, humanoid robot designed to negotiate outdoor, rough terrain. Atlas can walk bipedally leaving the upper limbs free to lift, carry, and manipulate the environment. . Atlas is strong and coordinated enough to climb using hands and feet, to pick its way through congested spaces" (para 1). According to the information given by Boston Dynamics, Atlas can search-and-rescue better than human and can ensure people's safety. Moreover, to rescue people from Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, Chemical, and Explosive hazards, Quince is developed in Japan. In 2011, when Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was damaged and released nuclear waste and radiation, Quince photographed the details of the power plant, created radiation dose maps, and sampled radioactive materials floating in the air (Fu Ro, n.d. para1-2). Furthermore, D-3, a robot developed by military, ensures the safety of soldiers from landmines by exploding it first with its chains (Plenke, 2015, para 4). As it shown in those cases, robots to ensure people's safety is already being developed, and if there is a constant development of robots, robots will be able to rescue people while ensuring human rescuers' safety at the same time. 
However, some people may disagree with this idea and say robots can be dangerous as shown in many sci-fi movies such as Terminator trilogy and I-Robot. People think robots with a high artificial intelligence will be able to dominate the Earth as human did long ago as the highest intelligent creatures. However, this cannot be possible because robots have to obey human and cannot harm human according to the "Three Laws of Robotics" suggested by Isaac Asimov in 1924. Although Asimov suggested this laws in his novel, inventors always keep these laws in mind to ensure robots to know they are serving the human race. Therefore, people won't face robots that can kill them if the inventors and developers keep basic laws in their mind. 
	 Second, development of robots can make industry more effective by replacing human. According to the website Robot Worx, "Industrial manufacturing robots provide many benefits that companies require to stay competitive. The speed, repeatability, and efficiency that industrial robots provide can increase productivity and profits, reduce costs, and keep jobs" (Robot Worx, n.d., para 1). Robot is a machine. So, robots do not need any rest and have ability to work 24 hours a day, and 365 days a year. Manufacturing robots increase productivity drastically, and also they have ability to work faster than any traditional machines and people. Moreover, manufacturing robots will reduce the salary costs of companies because robots only need maintenance cost only once a while. Workers who are slower and get payed much more than robots will be replaced and this will bring higher profits to the industry companies. 
Although robots can bring much higher profits to the industries, people worry about lack of job opportunity for people in industry because they believe robots will replace all the work that human has right now. However, this is not quite true. According to the website Robot Worx, "The myth that the implementation of industrial robots in manufacturing will lead to massive unemployment is just that - a myth" (Robot Worx, n.d., para 4). About this, Robot Worx explained, "The fact is that many companies that want to cut costs consider both outsourcing jobs . with cheaper labor costs and integrating industrial robots into their production lines. Cost analyses have confirmed that outsourcing jobs and integrating robots provide about the same amount of savings, almost 60% in some cases. The benefits of integrating manufacturing robots and not outsourcing labor are that jobs will stay . and product quality will actually improve" (Robot Worx, n.d., para 4). Therefore, adapting and developing robots will not harm people who are working in industry so much, with industry being highly efficient. 
	As a influence of Alpha Go, researchers predicted not only industry jobs but also many other jobs can be replaced by robots/artificial intelligence such as sports referees, cooks and chefs, waiters and waitresses, drivers, reporters, and artists (Hong, 2016, para 4-10). Although many sources such as Robot Worx claim that adapting robots would not replace human so much, people still question about people losing jobs because of robots. The answer for this is yes and no. The answer is yes, because certainly robots will replace traditional industry workers, but the answer is no because robots will replace dangerous jobs that can cause people's injury and health. Although it is being a trend for big companies to adapt robots to their industry, the industry is far behind to fill itself with robots. Also, current technology is not fully developed to replace so many people to robots. Robots will replace people slowly and certainly in long time, and during that long time, people will find the jobs that are only for humans, limits for adapting robots to the industry, and the job field will divide into the jobs for human and the works for robot. 
	When something get invented and developed, people always think the possible danger of the invention. However, if people feared about this so much and did not develop inventions further, the society would've been so much different now. If people feared the development of cars because it can kill people by colliding, if people feared the development of electricity because it can electrify people and kill people, and if people feared the development of smart phones because it will take so much time away by using it, we would have living in whole different world. Robots are something that people fear and worry, but looking forward to it at the same time. Although people think robots can be dangerous, actually it is not. There are so many benefits that people can have thanks to the development of robots. Robots have so much potential to help people's lives safer and easier. Therefore, development of robots is necessary. 
