Argumentative Essay 
4/10/16 
First Draft 
Factors that Chinese whole nation system must be changed 
Chinese whole nation system of sports invoked lots of debates in recent years. Some people stated that this system wasted a large amount of money to chase for champions and honors. Additionally, the competition in this area is extremely high. And as a result, many children and teenagers from poor family who are struggling to improve their live and support their families became the victims of this whole nation system. On the other hand, some people believed that the whole nation system is a good because it brought China lots of medals and honors. This system made China become a strong sports power among the whole world. Although the whole nation system of sports attributes a lot to the success of Chinese sports in international competitions, to my opinion, this system must be changed because it wasted a large amount of money and abused Chinese young athletes. I will use some examples and factors from the interview I conducted and the articles I founded online to support my thesis statement. 
Furthermore, the high competition among all the athletes could ruin their lives. Most of the athletes did not get the chances to take part in some world-class matches. These players have to choose another path after be eliminated through the selection, and the most important years of their life are wasted. The article "State property: Memoirs of a top Chinese gymnast" by Ian Ransom gave us a great example to support this opinion. Ransom showed us a story of a Chinese gymnast named Fan Ye who grew up under the whole nation system and won several metals in Olympics. Fan told us that although she got the chance to get into Peking University after being retired from an athlete, most of the most of the athletes can't even find a job or get into a college, because it is really hard for retired athletes to find another job because of the lack of knowledge and skills. Fan also pointed out that the nation never cared about athletes' future when they are not able to win metals in international competitions. Fan's words revealed the ruthless side of the whole nation system and the terrible situation of most athletes in China. It is a good example that supported my opinion, which is the cruel competition could ruin athletes' lives. 
The stories and experiences I found are all good examples to prove that Chinese whole nation system is terrible and it must be changed. When we are trying to improve our sports performance, the first duty is to care about our athletes. When our athletes lose confidence and positive attitude for their rest of life, the medals and honors mean nothing. 
Reference: 
Ian, R. (2012) State property: Memoirs of a top Chinese gymnast, Reuters. April 10, 2016 Retrieved from: http://www.reuters.com/article/us-oly-chn-fan-adv-id USBRE86P0WT20120726 
