Argument Essay 
	In today's society, more and more people concern about time management. There are lots of debates about managing time. According to a survey taken by the Ocean University of China, nearly 70% of people who did the survey think manage time is important and necessary. However, there are some people hold the opinion that people do need to manage time, they think life is meaningless if one has a crowded schedule and has no time to enjoy. In my opinion, time management is too important to ignore. If one does not manage his time, his life would be messy and he can accomplish nothing. 
	First, doing time management can help people do more works per day. According to my interviewee, he has more things done every day after him managing his time. It is easy to understand why this happened. Before he managed his time, he did not know what time management is. He lived a messy life every day and he waked up very late, so he missed all of his morning class last semester so he got a not very good GPA. In this semester, my interviewee decided to change himself. Then things are totally different. He tried his best to change himself, and he quit lots of bad habits which waste him a lot of time. He manages his time effectively now. Let us see the achievement he has got: he gets above 90% of total grades in every class now. If he can keep managing his time, he can get at least 3. 8 GPA this semester. That is a real success because he failed all of his class last semester. What is more, his life is also changed. He lives a healthy life style now. Every weekend he plays tennis with his friend, and he is much healthier than last semester. So it is easy to see managing time can help people get more works done every day and get a better academic performance. 
Second, time makes every wonderful things better in your life. According to According to Douglass and Douglass (1993), managing time is important to people. "Voltaire, the great French writer and philosopher, suggested that time enlivens all that is great". For instance, if a man manage his time, he has a logical time schedule for himself, he can follow the schedule and finish his every day's job. Even his work is too hard to finish in time limited, he can extend his working time because there must be some space in a perfect time schedule for emergency situation. What is more, he has time to do entertainment, to relax, and to be with his family to enjoy his life. However, if a man do not manage his time, things are different. He has no idea about his working time, like when to start or when to finish. That could cause to low efficient: the man did not finish his work yesterday's work and he need to do it today. Because yesterday's work take today's time, he cannot finish today's work today and he can just finish it tomorrow. That is what really happened in real life. At last, people who work this way always cannot get fantastic achievement. What is more, people who work in this way may has no time to relax every day. No relaxation makes people under high pressure and easy to be tired. It is very bad for health, then people may fall illness and then all of the life become terrible. Wonderful life or terrible life? It depend on whether you do time management or not. It is easy to see time makes every wonderful things better in one's life. 
	Third, for manufactures, who manage time can be more efficient. According to Stalk (2005), "In projection television, Japanese producers can develop a new television in one-third the time required by U.S. manufacturers. In custom plastic injection molds, Japanese companies can develop the molds in one-third the time of U.S. competitors and at one-third the cost. In autos, Japanese companies can develop new products in half the time-and with half as many people-as the U.S. and German competition". Why Japanese producers' efficiency are so high? Because they are time-based factory. In other words, compare to manage cost, they manage time. However, western companies did not pay much attention to time management, so they are losing the market now. It is easy to see that more and more Japanese cars appear on road in recent years. I think time-based management helps Japanese companies a lot in rising percentage of products in market. My aunt owes a big restaurant in my hometown, and the competitive was furious. To be the winner in the competition, my aunt decided to manage time instead of managing cost. She was a chef before, so she knew the exact time to make certain dish. She combined her experiences with actual situations, then she made a timetable for kitchen: chefs need to follow this when they are cooking. After one month, the advantage of time-based management appeared: with a little bit cost rising, time clients waiting for food cut by half than before. In this situation, more and more clients came to my aunts' restaurant and she was the winner in this competition. For those who focus on cost, they failed in the end. These two examples tell us time management is helpful in manufacturing and my career. 
	Finally, time management can help students get better academic performance in school. According to Joseph and Konrad (2009), if a teacher wants his students have a good academic performance, there are some choices in their books for teachers to make their students manage themselves better, which means students manage time better. Because all of the ways that help students become strong in self-management is related to time management. If a student know how to manage time, he can make a schedule for himself, then he can follow the schedule every day. I think life which follow a schedule is wonderful. I can make a plan for my free time, and the schedule is like a contract between God and me. Every time I see the schedule I know what I should do right now. If I do not have that, my life would be terrible. I do not know what to do, or forget what I should do, so I just lie on bed or play computer games. When I remember what I should do, maybe it is too late to do that. That always happens when I did not have a schedule. Now I have schedule every day, I live a healthy life, I get better in my study. I can get at least 3. 0 GPA this semester, which is much better than last semester. I love time management. 
	All in all, time management is very important and necessary in our life. No matter what you do, you need time, so managing time should like eating and sleeping- all of them are part of our life. Life is short, managing life, make the short life much more meaningful. 
