Fast food and human health 
Food for human role is often providing energy, keep healthy. There is a kind of food, however, have long been nutritionists debate and criticism, because people think it not only help people keep healthy, can have harm to the body instead. This kind of food is fast food. Fast food as now people eating habits is very important in a kind of food, caused many arguments. About its nutritional ingredients, some of them are about its harm to human body. Most scientists think that fast food is harmful to human body a kind of food. But I have found through the investigation and analysis, the right to eat fast food, avoids the harm to the body of the method, this method has three aspects: proper lifestyle, the frequency of the reasonable, healthy eating diet. 
As I mentioned in the last paragraph, the food's main function is to provide energy, but a person's lifestyle and determines the number of his daily consumption of energy, so you want to correct to eat fast food, is also a correct way of life. In bowman, S's book Fast Food Consumption of U.S. Adults: Impact on Energy and Nutrient Intake and Overweight Status has a very important research conclusion: obese people tend to have a low energy lifestyle and a high-calorie diet. Rather than to simply eating habits is not healthy. The conclusion shows that a person need how much energy intake every day, depends on just how much energy he consumes every day. If you are a regular physical exercise, or engaged in heavy manual labor, so your energy will be a lot of every day, so fast as foods high in fat and calories, is a very fit into your lifestyle. And if you are a day sitting in front of a computer to type or sit at the desk reading a book, seldom go to the gym movement of people, you will be less energy consumption every day, at this time if you are still a lot of energy through the use of the fast food intake, so those calories and energy will be converted into fat is stored in the body by you, then you will suffer from obesity. In the book also pointed out that regular exercise sweating a lot, your body needs salt will change much, so fast food such as the big MAC is contained in salt will be consumption, thus reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. So if you want to enjoy fast food bring you health, you must have a healthy, regular exercise way of life. 
When a person is identified after his way of life, he or she can determine a reasonable frequency to eat fast food the food of high quantity of heat. According to the survey in Bowman's book, a regular exercise adult, fast food can eat three or four times a week, and will not suffer from obesity, and a lack of physical activity in adult lifestyle, best to eat only once or twice a week fast food to avoid too much energy and fat intake. 
After using the method mentioned above, there is another important aspect to avoid fast food brings harm to your body that is to have a balanced diet. Mentioned in the book, doing Pereira, M a 15 years after investigation and analysis, they found that if at the same time of eating fast food, vegetables, fruit these foods rich in fiber and vitamins, and seafood this high-protein low-fat food, can effectively avoid obesity, diabetes and high blood pressure, which people fear of. Fast food contains nutrients is very single, lack of necessary vitamins, trace elements and fiber. To eat food without these ingredients can not only satisfy an adult daily nutrition. So, in order to avoid nutrition disequilibrium, each time in the consumption of fast food at the same time, reasonable collocation other kinds of food, is also an important way to avoid damage to the body. 
Fast food is one of many people's favorite food, but a lot of people have unhealthy ingredients in it are worried. I think this fear can be eliminated completely. Passed to a lot of paper, the analysis of the books, I draw such a conclusion: the correct and rational consumption of fast food has three aspects: a healthy lifestyle, reasonable frequency, and a balanced diet. If you can do this at 3 o 'clock, so you can enjoy fast food brings you joy and satisfaction. 
Reference 
Bowman, S Vinyard, B (2013 June 18) Fast Food Consumption of U.S. Adults: Impact on Energy and Nutrient Intake and Overweight Status 
	Retrieved from 
Pages 163-168 DOI: 10.1080/07315724.2004. 10719357 
Pereira, M Kartashov, A Ebbeling ,C Prof Horn, L Prof Slattery, M Prof Jacobs Jr, D Ludwig, D (2005 January) Fast-food habits, weight gain, and insulin resistance (the CARDIA study): 15-year prospective analysis Retrieved from 
		DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)17663-0 
