Population outflow in rural places of China 
Purdue University 
Introduction 
Rural population of the entire world stabilizes at around fifty percent for a long time. However, the number drops considerably over the past eight years, from more than fifty percent out of total population to forty-six percent (World Bank, 2016). Urbanization is one of the leading factors for this situation. It is the process whereby a society changes from a rural to an urban way of life. It refers also to the gradual increase in the proportion of people living in urban areas (Me SH browser, 2014). Large amount of people, of whom are mostly the youth with physical labor, are fascinated by urban areas for its high wedge levels and good living standards. As a result, they left their homes, leaving the older and children back in counties. And move to big cities to seek for chances. This profit-oriented action can be seen in China, who is undergoing this process recently. In China, a majority of people worried about this, saying that labor for agriculture activities should be concerned. The other people argued that urbanization do no harm to neither urban nor county. In this process, farms better off because they share limited recourses with fewer population. So does urban, for the increase number of available human labor. 
In this paper, I am going to write on whether we should stop the effect of moving people out of county from urbanization. From my perspective, it is sensible to continue this process in order to boost the advancement of technology, especially those for agriculture, the improvement of labor shortage in cities and equally allocating educational resources. 
Technology revolution 
First of all, in order to maintain high productivity with fewer labor in rural places, machinery production should be put into practice. Machinery production brings significant social benefit. It is possible to finish plentiful work in a short time period. Healthy and sufficient food become available at a lower price. Production input decreases since the farms do not spend money on massive human labor anymore. According to my interviewee Ospina, the U.S. is the most typical country who benefit from machinery production. The U.S. need help from machinery production because they don't have enough labor on farms. With large amount of unused flat plain, farmers in the U.S. can easily run big machine to do agricultural activities, without topographic limitation. And they make great profit from it (2016). The government of the U.S. highly valued the importance of agriculture. It has also benefit from developing agricultural tillage implement revolution. For example, more than $82 billion in economic activity is generated by the ag-equipment industry. A payroll of $8. 53 billion per year goes to employees working directly and indirectly in the U.S. agriculture equipment industry (Wanki & Jacob, 2011) 
Fewer human labor forces the country to develop its technology. Advanced technology is required to produce ensure enough food with a high productivity. Although people tend to leave rural places recently, economy in rural places actually better off with good productivities. With the development of modern technology, more fancy equipment become available to agricultural work. Thus, worries on human labor is needless. The outflow population should definitely be allowed, which promotes the revolution of technology. 
Cure for labor shortage 
	Although with a large population, labor shortage does exist in China. Since 2004, a widespread shortage of migrate labor in coastal cities has sparked off spirited debates among individuals. People can hardly imagine how could the country with the largest population occur labor shortage. The shortage based on several facts. According to some reports, the number of migrant laborers in various cities of Zhejiang province fell by 10-20% from a year ago. Another report estimated there was a shortage of about two million workers in Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Dongguan. The Fujian Provincial Bureau of Statistics believes the labor shortage was the reason why the average capacity utilization rate reached only 80-85% (Huang, 2004). Current shortage result in either decrease in supply or rapid growth on demand. To be specific, along with the globalization, labor intensive industry moves into China because of low wedge level. International factories are profiting from low labor cost. Local entrepreneurs have witnessed this profitable opportunity, so similar industries, especially manufactures, sprung up everywhere. These two ways increase the need of human labor. What's more, supplies decrease at the same time. One of the primary factors is the aging population. China is undergoing aging population, especially after the enforcement of one-child policy. Xin Ge pointed out in his article that although the number of labor aged from 18-60 grows readily, the youth workforce is the only group that fits in labor intensive industry. In another words, suitable labor actually drops rather than increases in recent China. He also stated that newborns number from 1975 to 1990 are less than every year between 1964 and 1974, mainly because of one-child policy. Thus, massive labor availability through 1990s is a result of rapid population growth in 60s and 70s (Ge, 2007). 
	Labor shortage can be revised by letting people migrate into cities. Most of the intensive labor job are recently taken by those people with lower education and productivity of whom mainly come from countryside. 
Accessible Educational resources 
	Education is commonly acknowledged to be important in one's life. High quality education can somehow promise nice job in the future. However, education seems unfair on allocating between countryside and urban. According to world bank, the ratio of college student from countryside and urban increase by eight percent from 1985 to 2002. The gap continues to enlarge. This drawn great concern on the equity of education. It shows that children in countryside can hardly get well-educated even with government's increase investment on education. Yet, if children can migrate to cities with their parents. Better education become accessible for the new generation of countryside, which will then make a really worthy cycling. The new countryside generation with high quality educations will possibly enter colleges. They are able to take over important jobs which requires professional knowledge. The whole society can ultimately better off from this process. 
Conclusion 
	All in all, the advantages of population outflow in rural places outweigh those of its disadvantages as the outflow promotes the revolution of technology, solves the problem of labor storage and leads equal allocation of educational resources. In order to develop a robust economy, it is well-advised for a country to drive urbanization and thus population outflow to cities greatly. 
