Campus Work is Beneficial for College Student 
Campus Work is Beneficial for College Students 
		"I absolutely love working on campus!" (Personal communication, Oct 20, 2014) Hou, one of my interviewees who are currently working for Purdue University, said this during an interview meeting with me. In recent years, number of students who are employees of their colleges had increased significantly. According to the journal published by National Center for Educational Statistics, 79% of undergraduates worked during 2007-2008 while they were enrolled (Lucier, 2012, p.3). Students may choose to work for different personal reasons such as to offset the high cost of tuition, or it could just be plain desires to work (p.5). However, as campus working became prevalent among college students, whether or not it is beneficial for students to work for their colleges was the important question to ask. After interviewing two student employees from Purdue University and read through five articles of relevant topics, I found out that although working on campus have its disadvantages such as fairly low salaries for student workers and most student employees' academic grades tended to decline (Reynolds, 2014), the benefits of applying for job on campus was greater. Because working on campus was more flexible on student's schedules, could expand student's social circles, and could arm students with professional skills for their future careers. 
		Campus job usually have multiple and flexible working shifts for student employees in order to avoid interfering with their class schedules. Most colleges understand the top priorities of students are to study, gain and maintain good grades, so they would try to design or find working shifts that fit their student worker's schedules as much as possible. In the article, Should My College Student Look For a On-Campus Job or Off Campus, the fact was presented that the colleges know the obligations and concerns of their student employees, so they would excuse their student employees from missing works because of preparing for tests or having to complete group projects for classes. Besides, most job that are available to students on campus are normally closed during school breaks or holidays, which fit students schedule perfectly unlike off-campus job may ask their employees to keep working during certain holiday times (p.5). What's more, students who work on campus are easier to find a substitute for his/her work shift than those who work off campus due to the larger base number of students who work on campus (p.7). Therefore, students who work on campus would have a more flexible schedule. 
		College students are likely to meet more people thus expanding their social circles during campus work. Because students work with other students from all over campus and all kinds of majors, they would have plenty chances to meet new people and make friends with them. My interviewees, Hou and Le, both told me that through work, they met many amazing people and became friends with them (Personal communication, Oct 21, 2014). They both argued that if not working together, they would never meet these amazing individuals in their daily life. Moreover, as Lucier (2012) stated that working on campus is an excellent way to increase student worker's sense of belonging. To be more specific, working in an institution with other students and staffs are likely to make students employees to feel they are parts of the big family (p.4). "Not only through my coworkers but just the customers themselves remembering my face and acknowledging me on campus." said Kyra Bannister, a junior at the University of Oregon (p.5). In this case, student workers could expand their social circles not only within their workmates but also among their customers. 
		Working on campus is likely to bring students the gift of professional skills. While working on campus, students are trained with communication skills, team-working skills, time managing skills and customer service skills (Lucier 2012, p.8). For example, my interviewee, Hou, told me a story about him when he first worked at Purdue Earhart Dinning Court. Because Hou is an international student, he could not communicate with others really well. So Hou expressed his concern to the coordinator and the coordinator decided to train him by putting him into the stirring fry section. The stirring fry section is the place customers order their fried meat so Hou had to communicate with both customers and his co-workers consistently. By working there, Hou's English speaking skill improved significantly and he said he had no fear of communicating with American workmates in his future jobs (Personal communication, Oct 20, 2014). Besides, My other interviewee, Le, argued that team-working skills are essential for student employees because no company nowadays would hire a person who does not know how to cooperate with others. He stated that being a teaching assistant at Purdue taught him how to work with other TAs and the professors together to teach a class and he felt this skill was a treasure to him (Personal communication, Oct 21, 2014). In addition, Palmer and Bray (2008) supported this argument by stating that working on campus would give students great advantages in competing with other candidates in applying for a job in the future. 
		In brief, working on campus is definitely beneficial for students on multiple aspects. Campus jobs are more suitable for student's academic schedule than other works; student workers would have many opportunities to meet new friends at work and thus enlarging their social life; most importantly, campus work is a preparation for college students who are about to step into the real world because it arms students with professional technique and skills that are invaluable for students. Granted, campus job does have its disadvantages like unsatisfactory payments and mostly declined academic grades of student employees (Reynolds, 2014). However, these problems can be fixed because the wage of students payment have the potential to grow through promotion (Megan, 2014) and if students learn how to balance their study time and work time, their grades would stop declining. Additionally, professor Laura Perna has actually found out that students who work are more persistent to pursue their academic success than those who do not (Lucier 2012, p.3). Therefore, working on campus could be great experiences for college students for it could give students skills or network that are invaluable for the rest of their lives. 
Reference: 
Lucier, K (2012, Sep 13). Consider Pros and Cons of Working in College. US News, Retrieved November 12, 2014 from http://www.usnews.com/education/best-colleges/articles/2012/09/13/consider-pros-and-cons-of-working-in-college 
Megan, H (2014, Sep 30). Minimum-wage student workers crucial to OU's functionality. The Post. Retrieved November 1, 2014 from http://www.thepostathens.com/news/article_839f6c30-4826-11e4-91ae-0017a43b2370.html 
Palmer, S, & Bray, S. (2008). What is the on-campus experience? Engineering student study and work. Tempus publication, 24, 802-810. Retrieved November 1, 2014 from http://www.thesunflower.com/opinion/article_c1e50240-6048-11e4-8d8e-0017a43b2370.html 
Reynolds, S (2014, Oct 30). Working on campus not enough to pay bills. The sunflower. Retrieved November 1, 2014 from http://www.ijee.ie/latestissues/Vol24-4/s17_IJEE1844.pdf 
Should My College Student Look for a Job on Campus or off Campus? (November 23, 2012). College Parents of America 
CAMPUS WORK IS BENEFICIAL FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS	 3 
Running Head: CAMPUS WORK IS BENEFICIAL FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS 	1 
