P4d1 first draft 
March 29th 2016 
Nuclear Energy: Future Option of Energy 
Nuclear security has recently become a controversial topic in the world, and many people protest against their government and industry for investing and expanding nuclear energy program to meet the energy demands. However, though nuclear energy is not perfectly safe and reliable contemporarily, I still agree that nuclear energy should be considered to be a good option of energy. Even though some people may argue that horrible accidents and consequence of pollutions arise with construction and operation of nuclear plants, I still believe the technology of nuclear reactors and good policies implemented by government can prevail over the concerns of nuclear security. 
The main reason why I support to consider nuclear energy as a potential option to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels is because future nuclear technology can reduce the possibility of disaster while keep its nature of low greenhouse gases emission during production. Currently, the materials of heat exchange and steam producer of nuclear reactor may not be able to resist high temperature and pressure, and thus they become fragile to have accidents due to high pressure and leak the radiative materials. However, in the future the engineers and scientists will be capable of constructing the reactors that contains heat exchange and fuel rod with high molting point to reduce such concerns. As Shiga (2011) suggests, the next generation nuclear reactor will apply a special material called liquid fluoride thorium in the core of nuclear reactor. Such material can replace water as traditional steam to low the potential of explosions when the accidents take place to heat exchange system. Consequently, the nuclear reactor will be able to endure a longer time during emergency, which provides the technicians more chance to recover the accidents. In addition to the technology that improves the safety, unlike burning coals nuclear reactors naturally do not produce CO2 and other greenhouse gases during its process of energy production. Therefore, in the future, the nuclear energy effectively decreases our dependence of fossil fuels and overcomes its disadvantages of potential harm to the environment. 
As somebody may concern, though this option might have a bright future, the status quos have not been able to reach the target set above to ensure safety of present time. However, those people may not fully acquire the fact of status quos. According to Professor Robert S Bean of Nuclear Engineering at Purdue University, though our current nuclear reactors are not as safe as future model, it is still necessary to be aware that status quos of nuclear technology are healthy enough to continue operating in the present. In the interview with him, he described that despite fact that the current nuclear reactors still remain problems of leaking radiative materials nuclear energy is still under human's control. In his opinion, all of our nuclear reactors for commercial use are under inspections of experts and government regulators. Though for ordinary people they would feel terrified with radiative materials, however, those experienced experts know how to take care them. In other words, as long as experts take care of the materials, the operation of nuclear facility is safe and reliable. Because the nuclear energy is in the cage of multiple inspections and regulation, ordinary people do not have to worry about its safety in the present. Subsequently, society should still trust our present nuclear energy despite we must use it very carefully. 
Aside from bright future and healthy present, we can expand nuclear program if government implements good propagandas and regulations. As I mentioned previously, many people concern about nuclear energy and feel apprehensive because they are not aware of the details about nuclear industry. If we can reduce such concern with political and social reconciliations, nuclear energy will be our ideal choice. In the interview with Professor Bean, he argued as long as the government implements good education and regulation, we can move stably during this transitional time between our present and future. If government conducts good policies and funds the research, the nuclear energy industry will be accepted and developing over time. As a result, the social issue of nuclear energy will be resolved, and nuclear energy will be a good option in the future. 
In conclusion, though nuclear energy recently has many problems and may be costly in terms of construction and safety keeping, it is still considered as a reliable energy source. We can maintain its presence by funding on technology and education. In addition to that, the development of technology will reduce the risk of accidents. In this sense, nuclear energy will no longer be a concern of our society. 
Reference 
Shiga,D. (2011, March 26). Rescuing nuclear energy. New Scientist,209 (2805), 8-10. Retrievedfrom: http://web.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.purdue.edu/ehost/detail/detail?vid=7&sid=b061f18f-b164-4253-aa88-ed0044a6cd46%40sessionmgr4002&hid=4114&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc3Qtb Gl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=61015043&db=aph 
