ENGL 106i 
P5d1_arp 
April 11, 2016 
How parents choose after school activities for their children 
Education has always be the most important part of a family. Almost every parents want their children to grow up into healthy and smart people. As we all know, children not only learn course book knowledge at school but also learn other abilities after class. In most of time, the after school activities is decided by the parents. So how do parents make their decision becomes an important and interesting topic for us to think about. After a number of interview and articles reading, we've got a result of "Parents need to consider more sides before making a decision." 
First, parents need to find a balance. What's the balance of? It's the balance between parents' hope and children's interest. It is absolutely true that parents will consider about the future more than children, and also it's true that parents know what is better for the children. But we also know interest is a really important thing for children in learning a new thing. Parents should not force children to do what they don't want to do, but find an activity which is good for both sides. Maybe it seems difficult but actually don't. Something like sports or art will be a very good choice. For example the professor of mine never force her kids to learn something and her kids can do freely in their sports and flute playing, but when meeting the kind like learning language, which is really important, she will ask the kids to learn and tell them why it is important. Her kids can working on their interests and important abilities. 
Second, parents need to increase their height of thinking. When making a decision, how the decision maker's thought decide how the decision will be made. Whether the decision is good or bad, it all depends on people. If a people have higher education or have high level of thinking, he or she can make better decisions than those who don't. As a survey which is made by a couple of educationist, students who get high scores usually have high educational parents. When they have questions to ask their parents for help, their parents can more likely to give a good idea for them. Because they know more and can understand where the problem is. Some parents they have the mind of helping their children, but they cannot give a good idea for them, this also influence the decision making. 
Finally, parents themselves need to have a positive attitude. Children are young and can be easily moved by their parents' mood. If their parents said "no I don't think this will working" or "I'm not sure if you can do this", most children will also agree with these negative thoughts. "My mom said it may not success." or "Dad told me not to try because I' m not good at, maybe he's right.". This will take the chance of trying new things away from children, if they don't try how they will know if they can do it or not? If the parents have the mind of "why don't you just do it? " "It's okay if you fail because mom will always be with you", then most children will bravely make their first step to the success. 
If parents can do these three point above, I think they will make a good decision for their children. Education is not just for children, it also need parents to make progress in their own thoughts. Children are young, they need their parents' help. I believe 99% of parents want to help their children but how many of them really helps? Sometimes parents really need to think about this question: "Am I helping my kid to the way of success or just killing his interest towards study?" If parents can ask this question, it's not hard to communicate with kids about the new ideas of both sides. 
