Orchestra Do Need Support
For many years, concert has been viewed as a very popular and traditional entertainment for people to enjoy their leisure time. While they enjoying the concert, people get emotional and physical relax. Almost all the universities have their own orchestra and band who hold the concert for student and staff to enjoy the relaxation the music bringing to them, so that they would get rid of the pressure from school and work. According to the significant function above, orchestra and band members, the "runner" of the function, play a very important role. In my opinion, in order to enhance students' leisure time quality and encourage more students to like and play classical music, university should provide more scholarship to the orchestra and band members. As Friedrich Nietzsche once remarked, "Without music, life would be a mistake (Nietzsche 186) ."
Classical music can be a very good way to release stress and also can make people relax and improve their efficiency. For students, they will get better grades. Stress is caused by a person's reaction to a negative stimulus such as fear or pain, and stress can be undone by exposing a person to a positive stimulus. Music, particularly music that is composed with the idea of relaxation in mind specially the classical music, is keyed to be a positive stimulus. When a person hears music or sounds they find pleasurable, the sound receptors in the ears activate a part of the brain called the nucleus accumbens. This is the part of the brain that releases the neurotransmitter dopamine, which is typically associated with elevated mood and pleasure (Litherland 1). Hense productivity increases when stress is reduced, as "academic field workers", students do need high productivity and creativity and less stresses. And orchestra and band can provide students with this efficient way to reduce their pressure or mental issues, which helps student to enhance their grades. Since the orchestra could bring such a huge benefit to the student and the university's responsibility is helping student get health and comprehensive growth, the university should offer more scholarships to the musicians in orchestra and band.
Second of all, orchestra and band can hold the concert and make financial benefits to university by selling tickets, which is similar with any other sports games such as football. Generally each ensemble should hold two concerts per semester, and for each concert there are at least two hundred audiences, which can bring thousands of dollars' income to school. According to <name> <name> (the <position> <position> of a chamber orchestra of USC)'s demonstration, just one of the chamber orchestras in University of South California made 28000 dollar's benefits in the last semester. In addition, if the orchestra is good enough, it can attract plenty of investment increasing the reputation of the university, which also is a way that can make benefits to university. As the financial benefits that the orchestra made is much bigger than the amount of money that used for scholarships, thus, the university should provide scholarships to the musicians.
In addition, by joining the orchestra and the band, the player themselves will not only improve their playing skill but can build up the sense of corporation and competition. Because in an orchestra, you're part of a team working towards a common goal so that you all have to work effectively together to produce a sound people want to hear, and to do justice to the notes a composer has written on a page. If one person doesn't pull their weight, it can affect the entire performance - so you all need to pull together and contribute to the best of your abilities. As Sacrnati said in his article, 2+2 can be equal to 10. That shows that the teamwork can maximize each individual's strength and combines the strength together. As in a team, all the team members are aim at the same gold and they will support each other by the interaction (Scarnati 6). And since you want to play together with the other performers, the cooperation with the conductor is also necessary, like understanding the gestures and the nonverbal languages handing out from the conductor. However, as you are cooperating with other performers, you are competing with them as well. In orchestra, you're required to play your instrument to a high standard, performing beautifully without making any mistakes, but level in orchestra is also obvious. The concertmaster is the best violinist in the orchestra and every violinist wants to be a concertmaster, but there is only one concertmaster in an orchestra, which requires the performers to improve their playing skills and competing with other performers. Thus, orchestra can help student enhance their sense of cooperation and competition which are helpful to not only their academic studying but their future career, because cooperation and competition exist everywhere. As such important abilities that can be learned from playing in an orchestra, the university should give the musicians scholarships to enhance themselves and attract more student to join the orchestra.
No matter how tired you are and how terrible you feel, all the pressures will be thrown away while sitting down in front of your music and throwing yourself into a performance. Playing in an orchestra is an incredibly intellectual way of relaxing from schoolwork, at the same time as still making use of (and developing) different areas of your brain which can excite your creativity and productivity. Since so many benefits that the orchestra can make for university and student, university should offer scholarships to the musicians as a proper means to help students to enrich their after class activities which can also improve the quality of student and dedicate to music development.
