International students should make friends with domestic people 
Before I wrote the first paper of formal proposal, I was new to college and overwhelmed by U.S. culture, so I thought I should stick to those people from my own country. However, I found only make friends with people from same country is not the way to solve challenges of culture shock I experienced. International students and the domestic ones are separated by different cultures, so I keep wonder the necessity of making friends with domestic students. Now, after all the people I have talked to, related journals I have read, and paper I have wrote, I come up with the idea: we should make friends with domestic students. 
Why is it necessary for international students to make friends with locals? As far as I know, a number of my international friends are pretty comfortable to only hang out with each other. Also, there are some international students argue that we should not make friends with domestic people since most international students' priority is to study, to graduate, and to go back home country to find a job. However, only hang out with international students to stay in the comfort zone can hardly accept new culture psychologically and get the sense of belonging; lack of the sense of belonging is the problem that every international student encounters. As Ms. Tucker stated (personal communication, October 10, 2014), international students get the sense of belonging in a foreign land by making friends with domestic people to accept the new culture. Ms. Tucker (personal communication, October 10, 2014) in charges of international family plan which targets to first-year international students. Students who participate in this organization are matched with domestic families. It is a reciprocal benefit: members of the domestic families get to know foreign cultures; international students get the sense of belonging because of making friends with domestic people. 
Making friends with domestic students is important because international students will inevitably experience culture shock after they arrived at a foreign country. Domestic friends can assist international students when they are hit by culture shock. Culture shock can be pain: the problems of effective communication with professors or peers, feel alone when one does not know what other domestic students are talking about, uncomfortable to talk to others because of accent, and the stereotype of international students' that cannot be conquered (Tas, 2013). For example, when a international student feels depressing and overwhelming by the pain of culture shock, his or her international friends only can be empathetic of the pain while domestic friends can bring the student to experience the culture and solve the challenges. As Ms. Tucker suggests (personal communication, October 10, 2014), international students feels better in culture shock if they build connection with domestic students. 
Also, making friends with domestic people can break stereotypes of international students. Some domestic people still hold stereotypes toward students from developing countries. For example, when I was at Chicago airport waiting in a line to go through customs, I saw a bunch of Japanese students crossing the wrong way, and an officer in a little car that can be drove in room yelling at those students: "Hey China! Get Away China! Get Out Of Here!" I was so shocked and humiliated because I heard those students talking in Japanese at the airplane, so they were even not from China. If a person has yellow skin and he or she is being rude, he or she must be a Chinese, which is the stereotype of Chinese. I was not expected such a stereotype thing occurred literally when I got off the airplane. These kinds of stereotype of international students are tangible and insurmountable in short time. To bridge the gap between stereotype and the true image of international students' home countries, international students should make friends with domestic people to eliminate the stereotypes. 
To make friends successfully, international students can turn to resources provided by colleges (Sobota 2012). According to Tas (2013), support from colleges are not enough for international students. From my opinion, support is enough at Purdue. Participating in activities on-campus organizations held facilitates international students to make friends with others. Ms. Tucker (personal communication, October 10, 2014) recommends resources on campus that foster forming social network. As an example of the organization, Boiler OUT Volunteer Program of which I am a member offer volunteering opportunities to international students at West Lafayette of Lafayette. A lot of volunteering events are related to American culture, such as wearing Halloween costumes to play with children at park, serving at the Feast at the Hunter's Moon, and allocating donated pies. Through participating in these kinds of events, international students accept American culture directly, so they will have same topic to talk about with domestic people in order to make friends . 
Making friends with domestic people helps international students enlarging social network, getting to know diverse cultures, breaking the stereotypes, and obtaining the sense of belonging. However, hesitating in the comfort zone, a number of international students still avoid making friends with domestic people. International students, especially those from eastern countries used to be taught to face the challenges alone (Smith & Khawaja, 2011). I think when they find that making friends with domestic people can help them solving challenges they meet everyday, international students will eventually step out of the comfort zone. 
