P5D1 Argumentative Paper 
Argumentative Paper 
	When I was a child in primary school, I found that the differences among students in behaviors and responses. To even the same situation like speaking in front of people, some extrovert children could speak confidently at the first time, while other introverts had to practice many times but still could not finish that work well. How can that big difference come? What influences the development of children's personalities? Is that what we are born with or we learn to change because of the environment? Psychological problems are always difficult to answer since it is a mysterious field with no existing equations or axioms but only experiments, studies and research. Based on the research and interview I have done, I found that both the congenital and postnatal factors play important roles in the development but genetic factor weighs much than the environment in the development of people's personalities. 
	According to <name> 's opinion, what matters is who you are, not where you are. Due to the gene, all human beings have the tendency to make certain behaviors. Since we all have intelligence to learn a way to deal with the environment, we cannot simply tell whether the personality of a person changes merely from his/her behaviors. Changing behaviors of people is just the signal of doing things outside their comfort zone rather than changing in their internal personalities. Sometimes introverts can behave just like extroverts after learning and making extra efforts. Actually, people are not as sensitive as we thought to the environment. As time passes, we learn much further about how to deal with the situation we have to face. For example, after courses, practicing and exercising, introverts can also give excellent presentations about certain topics and be able to enjoy chatting and working with others. No matter introverts or extroverts, these are skills that almost every person has to learn to be successful in the society. They do change their behaviors according to the environment, but how can you determine whether their internal personalities have changed? 
In 2003, Jeff Potter and his partners did a study about whether age affected people's personalities. They spread out games, quizzes and questionnaires on the website and got data from the public to determine whether age had influence on the Big Five personality traits, openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. After they measured the data, they found in the extraversion part that after 30 years old, both women and men hardly changed their personality traits. Certainly many of the people who provided information changed their environment, such as city and companies. If the postnatal factors weigh as much as congenital factors, how can those who have changed their life and work environment keep their personalities? Actually, when people grow up, they all tend to choose the comfortable environment and the friends that they enjoy staying with. What determines how people make these choices is genes, which form the personality and preference about others and the environment. 
	In addition, based on the article about twins done by Nick Collins(2012), "Genes play a greater role in determining key personality traits like social skills and learning ability than the way we are brought up by our parents". Since almost all twins grow in the same home environment but only identical twins share the same genetics, data about how personality traits differ between twins can provide enough information about whether genetic factors have greater influence than the environment. The researchers asked professional questions about how twins perceived themselves and others, like "are you influenced by people with strong opinions". The researchers then measured the answers from more than 800 sets of twins by well-established psychological scale and find out which group of personality traits the twins were in. The results showed that "identical twins were twice as likely as non-identical twins to share the same personality traits". We can conclude from the study that genetics influence more on people's personality traits. 
	As I have mentioned above genetics as congenial factors play a greater role than the environment as postnatal factors in determining people's personalities. It is not to say, however, that environment has no influence. Since personality is a complex topic, we cannot exclude any factors but consider both genetics and environment as important factors that determine people's personalities. However, genetics determine more than environment. Genetic factors even determine the way people response to the environment and which environment they would like to stay. 
