Skipping meals is the dumbest thing for a student to lose weight; because the lack of nutrition will slow down one's metabolism which makes it hard to take out the waste that he produced. According to Dr. <name>, not only should students have three meals a day, but they need to get adequate of nutrition. The healthiest way for a student to keep fit is to get plenty of water, plan for each meal and control the portion of sugar. 
Drink eight 8-ounce glasses of fluid a day could positively contribute to student's academic life. Norman focuses on the biomedical aspects of water in his paper. Water is necessary to maintain the tone of membranes for normal neurotransmission. It enhances circulation and aids in removing wastes. Water can also keep our brain from overheating. According to the research conducted by Norman, by the time thirst is felt, there may be a loss of body weight up to 2% from water loss and a 10% cognitive decline may be present. Mc Mullen (2012) mentioned that water can contribute to our health more than what people have realized. As college students studying and walking around campus, they lose lots of water and forget to drink it back which raises the risk of being dehydrated. Dehydration can cause fatigue, dizziness, poor concentration and reduced cognitive abilities which reduce the effectiveness for studying. It is advisable for people to have plenty of water because one of the most significant components of metabolism is water. The body metabolism performs a series of chemical reactions that take away wastes. A large variety of wastes are created by our bodies every day; these wastes could adhere to organisms and reduce their effectiveness; water washes them away. Moreover, having sufficient water will promote fullness, helping to starve off hunger. Mc Mullen announced that our mind usually mix up the feeling of hunger with thirst. In other words, even though we are not hungry, we eat food that would transfer to extra calories. Adversely, have some water before each meal help our stomach to digest and benefits keeping fit. 
Aside from getting enough water, adequate of calories is also critical for students to control diet. Mr. <name>, a Ph D student major in food science, recommended students to plan for their meals through the US dietary guideline to meet the daily caloric requirement. Mr. Christian emphasized that it is not advisable for students to take less food or even stay hungry for each day in order to maintain their body mass, because university students need more micronutrients such as calcium for their studying and living. There are specific parts for students in between 18 and 23 years old on the annual dietary guidelines, which are the specifications that the US government made through extensive research and collaboration with nutritional scientists. This guideline could aid us to plan for the best way to combine our food and to keep healthy. According to the guideline in 2015 two thousand calories are the average minimum energy level for each person including all men, women, kids and old people. University students should absolutely have more than two thousand calories per day. Daily caloric requirement for college students should be three thousand or even more depending on the stress, the body composition and how active that student is. So students should plan for meals base on their personal information to get adequate of calories for each day. 
Having enough energy is only one aspect of healthy living; another important aspect of nutrition is learning how to control the portion of sugar for each day. This is because not only can extra sugar transfer to fat but it also increases the blood sugar level which will potentially cause heart diseases. Mc Mullen (2012) emphasized that college students should have portion-controlled snacks. If students have a 2-pound bag of skittles, they're going to eat that 2-pound bag of skittles. Instead, she recommended students buy 100-calorie packs of candy and other snacks to keep portions controlled. It is hard for students to have a sugar-controlled meal at school dinning court, because there is an unlimited supply of soda and ice cream which contains lots of sugars. High sugar level meals potentially increase students' blood glucose. However, school dinning courts also have lots of fruits and vegetables, so Mc Mullen recommended students to take advantage that because they contain different types of vitamins and minerals to benefit our health. According to Mc Mullen (2012) replacing soda and snacks that we usually have with fresh fruits while watching TV is also advisable for keeping a sugar-controlled diet because not only do fresh fruit contain mild natural sugar but students will also get vitamins and minerals from fruits which are beneficial for their health. 
The belief that skipping meals or eat below the daily caloric level helps controlling body weight is incorrect. Energies are needed to improve our metabolism and take out the wastes we produced each day. The best way to keep fit is to have plenty of water, plan for each meal and control the portion of sugar. 
