P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15, 2015 
		Summer Programs for International Students 
In this modern age of improved technology and information international students travel half way across the globe to get good education. When they go to the host country they are in cultural shock and they may not cope up with the changes in their academic environment. Universities should have summer programs for international students to educate them about the cultural and academic practices of the host nation. 
One of the reasons why international students struggle with academic life during initial phase of college is they have little to no experience with the types of projects and assignments in the new education system. <name>, an international student from <place> in the US was quoted saying "When I first came here, I had a problem with research papers, as I have never wrote them in high school in Serbia I was not familiar with the structure of a paper as well as academic resources and citations." (Hopkins, 2014). If international students like <name> had been educated about the new academic projects, and the procedure to do these things they would not find it challenging. This way they will have an idea beforehand on what they are going to be assigned and how they have to do it. 
Another common challenge faced by international students is they don't understand why they have to take extra courses outside their major like general education classes. <name>, an international student from India studying at Drake University, Iowa says, "Wait, why do I have to do history? Why do I have to do religion? I [had] question marks all over the place-I was just so shocked." (Hopkins, 2014) This problem can be solved if international students if a summer program educates international students about the benefits of taking these extra courses and also give them an idea based on their interests to decide what general education classes they should choose. This would make them see the point of taking extra courses and they may even like extra classes better than the classed related to their major. 
A lot of international students speak language different than the language spoken in host country. Due to this they may find it hard to communicate with people and make friends. Being an international student I've experienced this challenge myself. International students also don't completely understand the host country's social rules for communication. Due to this they may find it hard to communicate effectively and build relationships with their international friends and professors. A summer program which would help international students teach all this and may be have someone from host country to help them improve their language might help a lot. They would be able to start the college normally as their international counterparts. 
Some people may argue that a summer program alone cannot help international students understand all these differences. I completely agree with them but a summer program can help them understand a lot of these differences between the two cultures and prepare them for a swift start to the college. If there are no summer programs for international students, they start their college knowing little to nothing about what they are going to face in their college life. When these programs are implemented to help them, they will be equipped to deal with the differences and feel inclusive in the different culture. 
International students face many different challenges during the beginning of their college life. They may not understand the type of assignments assigned by their new professor or they may not have the proper knowledge about how to do those assignments. They also face challenges due to language barrier and cultural differences due to which they struggle with their social life. They may not understand the type of classes to take during their college time. All these issues can be solve by having a summer program before the start of the college which would be dedicated to educate international students about all these differences and how to cope with them. Such programs will give international students a swift start to their college life. 
