Draft #3 
December 8, 2015 
Feminism 
As the development of history, the social status of female are increasing and women are gradually having more consciousness of pursuing the equality of male and female. Many girl friends of mine who claim themselves as feminists are extremely passionate about holding feminism activities. They set up a club of female leadership of school, advertised the equality of men and women in community and even joined parades to against sexual discrimination and the unfairly treat of women. And they stated feminism should be expanded in the society. But every time they did such things, there were always some objections. Some people still regard feminists as monsters, label them as "mannish women"(Ding, 2007, p. 111) They think feminism should not exist. However, from my point of view, I think feminism should exist, especially exists in China. 
First of all, feminism has somehow changed women's lives. Feminism is range of movement and ideologies that share a common goal: " to define, establish and achieve equal political, economic, cultural, personal, and social rights for women"(Beasley, 1999, p. 11). When I asked my friends what the feminism is, they said it was about seeking equal status and opportunities for women in every field as men rather than asking for more power or superiority for women. " Especially objecting the sexism, sexual exploitation and sexual oppression," said Ji Geng, female founder of the biggest Chinese feminism website. Feminism has already "set up movement to campaign for women' rights including right to vote, to education, to work, to have equal pay and the right of having opportunity of choosing marriage." (Echols,1989) There're some rights protected by the law, for example, Chinese Second Law on marriage, Law on protection of rights and interests of women (Angeloff & Liber, 2012, p.20) . It is because the feminism's campaigns, women are now having higher status than they earned before. 
What's more, females still get less respect compared to males. There're many processes that need feminism do. " Women are are born with inequalities. Since we were a fetus, we were forced to be induced an abortion. Girls are asked to stay at home while boys can play crazy outside. By the time we're adult, if we don't get married, we would have an imputation of no-wanted women, while unmarried men can be regarded as eligible bachelors. If we're married, we may be abused unless we procreate a boy. There are countless examples show that we are not respected." I heard from <name>. By the time I was doing the interview with <name>, there's a news taken place in China and was spread widely on Chinese Internet. The news is about a girl raped by a drunk man. It's popular was that the drunk man left phone number to the victim and told her call him if she got pregnant. "Do you think it's an appalling new? But for some men, it's a common request, because the raped girls have their kids. Girls are the tools to creating their offsprings." <name> said with an ironic smile. 
Third, sexual equality which feminism mainly advocates is men's issue too. In current society, many young men are suffering from mental illness that unable to ask for help, because it may make them less of man. A research shows that in UK, suicide is the biggest killer of men between 20-49 eclipsing road accidents, cancer and heart diseases. If feminism advocates sexual equality rightly and the equality comes true, men are able to sensitive as well. 
The another perception who against the feminism claims women are now equal to men, and there's no need of feminism. This is what majority think. They think feminism is a group that advocates women want to have power to control the society. "Having feminism is ridiculous! Don't you think women have already earned enough? As you know, women are treated as goods in ancient time, but now you have same opportunity as men. You can get educate, you can find a job, you can decide your marriage, and there're plenty laws for women protection! As I know, there's no law to protect men." said Yuan who is opponent of feminism. However, when I ask <name> why the rape new happen even though there's a law, he became silent for a while and respond "It's minority. At least, the drunk man know to be responsible for the kid." 
I now agree with <name>, women are not respected. It is because the less of respect to women, the drunk man can unscrupulous harm the girl. And because the less respect, Yuan can think it only take place unmeant and the he regarded the criminal as responsible. Even there're laws prohibit the violation of woman, but the case still exist. It doesn't mean people are not afraid of laws, but if the punishment of such law isn't heavy, men would not care. The feminism should exist. 
As I mentioned above, it is true that women have get lots of rights and have same status as men in some cases. However, the problem of less respect to women is still exist. This problem may not solved by laws, it should be improved by the feminism which can advertise their opinion into people's mind. I support that feminism should exist and expand the scale. 
Angeloff, T., & Lieber, M. (2012). Equality, Did You Say? Chinese feminism after 30 years of reforms. China Perspectives, (4), 17-24. 
Beasley, C., & Ebrary, Inc. (1999). What is feminism? an introduction to feminist theory. London ; Thousand Oaks, Calif.: SAGE. 
Mc Feely, Mary Drake. (1989). "Daring To Be Bad": Radical Feminism in America, 1967-75 (Book). Library Journal, 114(20), 148. 
Xiaoqi, D. (1991). Feminism in China. Asian Studies Review, 15(1), 111-113 
