P5D3 
4/25/2015 
Artificial intelligence will end human being some day 
	Artificial intelligence, AI, plays a significant role in the modern society. Some great experts from different fields, including Stephen Hawking, Elon Musk and Bill Gates, consider this great human achievement as a nightmare while others like Ray Kurzweil think their worries are unnecessary. However, I hold the opinion that although artificial intelligence seems not dangerous at present, it would be a serious threat some day in the future. To ensure human being's safety, people need to pay attention to AI all the time when developing it and build fundamental rules to follow. 
	The first reason I believe AI will end mankind is its powerful influence. According to Tim Urban, a writer on a public website named Wait But Why 1, the speed of technology's evolution is not constant. And he supports his idea through three graphs. On the first graph, he draws a curve reflecting the speed of technology's development in the past 20 years as well as what it was years before. Based on his graph, it is easily to find that technology improves at an increasing speed. However, on the second graph describing the speed of human's evolution, Tim Urban draws a straight line, which indicates that human's evolution follows a constant speed. On the third graph combining the former two graphs, it is easily to find that although technology is not so smart as people in its original form, it will finally reach human's level and go beyond people's control sooner or later. In conclusion, future is unpredictable, but technology is amazingly improving. Tim Urban also suggests that once AI reaches a certain level, like super artificial intelligence, one possible state for human race is distinction. Like what Eliezer Shlomo Yudkowsky, an American blogger, says, once AI processes rapid infrastructure, manipulating the external world on a large scale in fast time, it plus molecular technology could rewrite the solar system 2. At that time, people's life will under AI's control and whether people can live will depend on AI's operation. 
	The second reason I think AI will destroy human beings is people's increasing reliance on this type of technology. AI, the intelligence exhibited by machines or software, is becoming a part of human's life. From calculators to computers, from unmanned cars to robots and from phones to aerial vehicles, everything is a product of artificial intelligence. Stephen Hawking's translation machine is a typical example. In one of Hawking's interviews on BBC 3, he talks about the machine that helps him to communicate and talk to others. He says that the machine has been developed for several times; however, he insists on using the same robotic voice because he wants to remind himself that however smart the machine is, it cannot be an actual human forever. Even Stephen Hawking needs to live normally by using products of AI, how about others? To be honest, AI is more imporatant than what people may think in our daily life. An obvious example is smart phones, a communication tool that almost everyone has in modern society. And with the rapid development of technology, functions of smart phones have been continuously increased and improved. People can now play games, chat by messages besides phone calls, surf on Internet as well. Whenever taking a bus or having dinner, people cannot forget about their smart phones. There is a common phenomenon that the amount of time people spending on their smart phones is far more than it of people living in the actual world. How many people can say confidently that they can live without smart phones for a whole day without feeling uncomfortable? 
	All in all, artificial intelligence does not seem threatening now, but some experts' warning sounds reasonable. According to the analysis of the unpredictable powerful effect brought by AI in the future and people's increasingly reliability on this technology, it is possible that artificial intelligence goes beyond people's control and replaces human's leading role one day. To protect people's life and maintain people's power, scientists need to be more careful during the whole process of developing AI. 
1The AI Revolution: Our Immortality or Extinction | Wait But Why. (n.d.). Retrieved April 18, 2015, from http://waitbutwhy.com/2015/01/artificial-intelligence-revolution-2.html 
2 Artificial Intelligence as a Positive and Negative Factor in Global Risk. (n.d.). In MACHINE INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH INSTITUTE. Retrieved from: https://mymail.purdue.edu/service/home/~/AIPos Neg Factor.pdf?auth=co&loc=en_US&id=2722&part=3 
3 Hawking: AI could end human race. (n.d.). Retrieved April 18, 2015, from http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-30290540 
