Chinese E-business is Bound to Stepping into Maturity 
Because of its convenience and low-price, almost everyone has been involved into the mania of shopping online in China. Indeed, e-business provides consumers a platform where they can buy whatever bargain they want without walking out of their bedroom. Meanwhile, consumers avoid to be trapped by the annoying traffic jam. However, dishonesty of sellers and the fact that consumers lack confidence in internet banking services have become the most critical barriers restricting the success of Chinese e-business. To solve these difficulties, some people think positively that the cooperation between the government and consumers is bound to settling the problems. In contrary, others believe that the trust is not so easy to form owing to the long time experiences of deception. In my opinion, any behavior which goes against the laws can be controlled by the mature regulation and system. 
As the main character of the commerce, the government take the responsibility of protecting the rights of consumers. There is lack of the regulation that restrict the qualification of online sellers which leads to the confounding e-market. If the government carries out the new laws or rules aimed at the standard of the operation of the e-business, the dishonest behavior of sellers will get greatly reduced. It is normal that every seller desires to make more profit. So it is necessary to eliminate the devious methods by the power of the laws. Only by being faced with the restriction from government can Chinese e-business step into integrity. 
Besides the effort of government, the consumers should make use of the rating system to distinguish which is with good quality. Although it is easy for online sellers to cheat consumers on the quality of the goods, the reputation got from rating system is no doubt helpful to identity which one has better feedbacks. For example, the completed rating system gets rid of lots of illegal deals in Amazon and E-bay. American consumers make advantage of these rating system to leave responsible feedback. Moreover, the new consumers can turn to old consumers for help. Any confusion like if the size of the shoes is suitable will get settled on this useful platform. You can hardly find fakes in the American e-business. Therefore, Chinese consumers also should evaluate the sellers by rating their goods sold before. 
On the contrary, lots of people refute that these solutions just flog a dead horse. The number of online sellers in China is too limitless to control the whole e-market. Anyone who wants to sell goods can have the eligibility to sell them online. That's why there are so many fakes in the e-shop. However, I am opposed to this opinion. Recent years, Chinese government and public have taken action to resist dishonest behaviors in e-business. China first introduced its Consumer Protection Law in 1993. Twenty years later, in 2013, the law's first revision was made. The amended law takes effect today. The new version has made improvements in a number of areas. "315 consumer protection day", para1 It specifies that the delivery fees for returning the product shall be borne by the consumer. And the consumers should be paid back within seven days after the seller receives the returned goods. This is known as the "seven-day unconditional return". The new amendment also rules that advertising agents and e-trade platforms should bear joint liability if their products are proven to harm consumers. Also, organizations and individuals that endorse those goods and services will share responsibility as well. That means celebrities could be liable for false advertising. The new law sets regulations on the e-commerce industry for the first time. It allows consumers the right to return goods they bought via the Internet, television, telephone or mail orders within seven days from the date of receipt. 
In any case, with more and more problems of Chinese e-commerce appear, corresponding solutions have to be come up. From the government, they should carry out some laws or regulations to punish the dishonesty of the deal online such as goods of bad quality and fictitious discount. From the consumers, they should make use of the rating system to identity which one had better feedbacks. There is no doubt that e-business will grow increasingly. But the e-market will lose control without the regulation from government and supervision from consumers. The cooperation of the government and public is the vital part of e-business operation. Frankly speaking, not only the consumer need an organized e-market, but also the seller wants a favorable platform where they can compete with each other fairly. Consequently, Chinese e-business will step into maturity soon with the effort of every one who is in favor of it. 
