P5D3 
12/03/2015 
Soccer culture dominates the progress of soccer 
As soccer has dramatically been influencing in people's life, they start to figure out that why the competitiveness among clubs or countries differs obviously. Sometimes, sorrow of favorite team's defeat impacts a soccer fan's emotion for several days, while excitement come from the victory motivates someone in the entire month. Considering the significant influences on people's life, what is mostly related to high performance of a team is worth digging. I strongly believe that soccer culture is the most crucial element. And I suggest that the country where the soccer level is less competitive can cultivate or create more passionate soccer atomosphere in the nation. 
Firstly, self-awareness, one form of soccer culture which is obviously reflected in America, can promote a team's progress. Due to self-examination, a team would find setbacks during each stage and get progress by solving them. Explanation of <name> who I just interviewed 4 weeks ago is an appropriate example. <name>, an expertise in the areas of philosophy and history of sport, play, and leisure, believes that, soccer culture in America is more like a reminder. Since the U.S. has always been the pioneer of the world, backwardness in soccer warns them that americans are not the centre of the world. In this case, this awareness would impel soccer players as well as coaches in the U.S. to be introspective, to improve their competitiveness, and to get more progress. Before 2010, American barely had any achievement in international games. But since then, they realized the problem, reminding themselves that they were not the center of universe anymore, so then invited David Beckham, one of the most influential soccer player to join in the LA Galaxy. David brought his soccer idea with him to the U.S. land, making thousands of sports fans begin to embrace soccer. After that, growing number of superstars, such as David Villa and Steven Gerrard, followed Beckham's step. That's the process of how american tried to learn and improve their soccer standard. They want to extract essential spirits of those soccer stars and apply them into american soccer. Moreover, c new coach of national team, Klinsmann, developed american soccer to a new level. Under his teaching, the U.S. successfully entered the 2014 Brazil World Cup. It was the self-examination as well as modest learning from those who has achieved in soccer field that prompt America to have today's improvement. Its introspection, which is the special soccer culture of this country, will continuously help americans to make progress. 
Furthermore, globalization, another form of soccer culture, can integrate creative soccer ideas from various culture and then express the integration to a higher level. In the article" What Soccer means to the world"1, the author Tony Karon mentions my second belief. Due to the globalization, very face of nationhood is changing over the world. It is easily seen that athletes in those most impactive football club, Manchester United and Real Madrid, respectively have their race's skin colors. This phenomenon positively reflects that soccer has already contained variety in the earth. The connotation of soccer is much more profound than differences or conflicts among races. As the stream of each race gathers into the ocean of soccer, a great soccer culture forms. Communication of worldwide soccer presents and begin to develop towards higher level. Realizing the benefits of that, president of Real Madrid, Florentino, consistently imports the best players from every corner of the world. And this is probably the reason why Madrid FC has been considered as one of the grandest club throughout the history. A glance at the list of player of Madrid FC, James Roderigez from Columbia, Luka Modric from Kroatia, Christiano Ronaldo from Portugal, if they were not teamates in the club, they would live thousands miles away. It is exactly the graceful cooperation created by these genius that brings their club one more championship of champions league. This kind of soccer culture is generally recognized by people and actually is the most essential element that prompts the modern soccer. 
Also, according to my own experience, I deeply felt that soccer culture was the fundation to a team. Four years ago, there was a local team which has been supported by citizens for over 10 year. Every saturday, fandoms come together to the stadium, cheering for Jiangxi Hengyuan. There was a special organization called Jiangxi Redstorm encouraging us to pump for our team. Some staff of Redstorm were painted all in red, waving a red flag to express sincere support for the players fighting for our team. Under fans' endless motivation, Jiangxi Hengyuan kept a stable status in the best league in China. But last year, the directors decided to sell the whole team and thus, they had to move to Shanghai where the new owner lives. In Shanghai, Hengyuan was changed to another name, lacking original loyal fans. Everthing they met was totally unfamiliar, and support they enjoyed was gone. Suddenly, they dropped to last one in the league. It is easily seen that Hengyuan lost the positive influences come from soccer culture which initial fans created; each time watched their game on telivision, audiences sitting in the stadium were much less than supporters in previous home. By contrast, my belief that high performance of a team mostly depends on soccer culture is obivously reasonable, according to the decline between two periods. 
Admittedly, some critics would say that fundings plays more important role in the grade of a soccer team. I don't deny the existence of its influence, but as a matter of fact, fundings can be affected by great soccer culture, which can be proved by fandoms' actions. For instance, when Wenger, the manager of Arsenal, did not buy any players to enhance strength of his team, Arsenal fans organized several parades to protest Wenger's negative act even though Arsenal possesses the most sufficient cash storage in Europe. Impacted by fans' behaviors, Wenger bought the most valuable Mid field player, Mezut Ozil, and since then, by the organization of Ozil, Arsenal gradually became unstoppable in the league. This is exactly how fandoms' enthusiasm and responsibility made the club change, and increase intrusion of funding into construction of club. And if see this condition in big picture, that soccer culture is more powerful than fundings and authority proves my disagreement with those critics. Other critics may hold the opposite opinion that government's support is more determinant. Even though this aspect is worth considering, it can be overcome by public who truly love soccer. Once, a protest called by people in China forced government to replace the president of relative apartment. This is an appropriate evidence that government's support is less essential than soccer culture, the loyalty and sincerity to the soccer. 
Conclusively, if anybody asks what makes a team so successful, I would always respond soccer culture as answer. I want to reaffirm that soccer culture does enhance the performance of a team most significantly because self-awarness promote a team to progress, globalization expresses the intergration to a higher level, and soccer culture is the root of a team. Soccer culture is like mentality of human, an intention to make soccer more perfect, and a subjective instinct. Therefore, any problems hamper the progress of soccer can be overpowered, eliminated by soccer culture. Somebody may doubt that no one can define the concept of soccer culture. But the only thing they should know is that humanity is able to dominate the fate of a team, and the same time, soccer culture forms, together with "you will never alone" sung by fandoms of Liverpool standing in the Anfield Stadium. If people have a true understanding of what exactly soccer culture is, they would say that soccer culture is irreplaceable to the high performance of a team without any hesitation. 
1 It can be found at www.soccerculture.com 
