Win at innovation 
I can tell that maybe you are using i Phone now. Are you still using i Phone 4 or you have already changed to i Phone 6? I am still using i Phone 4 honestly because I think there are almost no differences between these two versions of i Phone except the performances isn't it? Every i SO system upgrade gave us lots of new functions and creations of our i Phone that made us feel we bought a cell phone that never become old thing. The thing that make Apple popular every year is the power of innovation. As for the first smart phone, i Phone is the best symbol of Apple's creative power. Nowadays, people are all fancied by Apple's products. We looked at our i Phone every day on the buses and subways and it changes people's life becoming new office tools and even educational tools. Yes, through the official statistics, there are about 1 billion i Phone users in the whole world. All changes happen because of Apple's creation of electronic devises. The key factor that make Apple successful is the spirit of innovation. 
We all know that Steve Jobs once said in his speech in Stanford: "Stay hungry, Stay foolish". The meaning of it is that we should learn things whether they are important or not every time and always stay foolish about them to make better innovation. I knew Steve Jobs well since I read about the biography of him. Steve Jobs never stopped learning new things and innovate new things. One story I want to tell is that when Steve Jobs was in his college time before he withdrew it, one of his favorite classes is art design. Actually he never registered for that class. And it seemed nonsense to take an art design class for Steve Jobs. But Steve Jobs persisted in taking that class for a long time. He believed anything he learned was useful in the future. And then, what we saw the typesetting design of our Macbook and i Phone is based on this art courses. Another story in the biography is that when Steve Jobs was working with the creation of Macbook, he was confused by the problem of power plug on the laptop. As most people experienced before, some times when we carelessly tripped by the power wire on our laptop, our laptop will fall off from table because of the wire. Steve Jobs innovated the magnetic power interfacer to solve this problem. And it is based on the design of rice cooker from a Japanese company. Steve use the rice cooker's design of power interfacer for reference and innovated it to the new function of Mac Book. As we can see, Steve Jobs as the spiritual leader of Apple, knew the importance of learning and innovating since he was young. And it is the spirit of innovation that lead Apple go through the tough competence of electronic market and stand on the top of the mountain. 
How Apple keep Steve's spirit running through it? Well as I said in the examples in the beginning, Apple never stopped innovate things for every new version of i OS system. For my personal experience, I begun using i Phone since high school, and it was i OS 4 in that time. The first upgrade of i OS system for my i Phone was the jump from i OS 4 to i OS 5. I found Siri born in my i Phone. I could open up any apps, ask to call someone or search for restaurants and theaters near by with just talking to Siri, and she will execute that order immediately. And then, the jump from i OS 5 to i OS 6 also impressed me a lot. The change in calendar system and email bounding system made me feel more convenient than before. And I found I can synchronize data from my i Phone to other Apple devices. Finally, Apple company announced that they will make a biggest change of i OS system after i OS 6. Then, the jump from i OS 6 to i OS 7 shocked me. The whole system changed to a gorgeous brand new thing. The smooth color and new functions made me feel pleasant. Every new version of i OS make innovations. And with the power of innovation, it made people think i Phone never becomes old but younger every time. It made more people think i Phone is worth to buy. With the successful advertisement, i Phone can tell their innovation to everyone and that becomes the reason i Phone is so successful. 
Apple also shows innovation in their marketing strategy. My friend once told me that Mac Book's electronic performance is bad. But now I can told him that Apple never rely on electronic performance to win the market. The secrete strategy Apple use to occupy market is the binding of every Apple's products. According to the book called "Marketing Strategy, Text and Cases" written by Michael Hartline, In Part 5, it mentions the marketing strategy of Apple. It says that Apple binds their products more and tighter to make consumers buy more. The example is if we just buy an i Phone, then we can't explore all the functions unless we buy a Mac Book. The reason is that Apple made more devices that bind together can work together more conveniently and efficiently to people. And the binding strategy make more and more consumers jumped into this black hole and keep buying products that bind together like i Pad and i Pod. Apple's innovation of marketing strategy also lead them to success. We can see other computer companies like Microsoft and HP. They went through traditional computer marketing strategy designing their products' electronic performances higher and higher. We can say that most people love computers that have high electronic performances. But the innovation of Apple Company also lead computer market to a new road. And Mac Book even surpass the average sales volume of computers in the whole world. So again, innovation make Apple company successful and also make progress. 
After we talked about how Apple went through Steve Jobs' innovation spirit, I think we should look at a little bit negative way that Apple use to get the idea of innovation. The i OS Jailbreak. Every person who used i Phone knows i OS Jailbreak. It should be an illegal thing to use. But the important thing we should know is that Apple is actually cooperating with Jailbreak teams. From the news that Apple hiring "Comex", Peter Hajas, and even hold up Jailbreaker's meeting in London, We can see that although Apple was still standing against Jailbreak and Hacking activities, they also appreciated these illegal Hacking activities to provide new ideas of innovation to Apple's own products. The example is "Cydia" designed by Freeman. He unlocked the restriction of App Store, and made more programming elite create their own apps freely. The i Phone owners download much more apps from Cydia than App Store and use them, test them and find new ideas that Apple never figured out before. Until April 2011, Cydia's annual benefit has already reached 10 million dollars, and there are 4. 5 million people using Cydia every week. And almost every 10 i OS devises have one devise that installed Cydia in the whole world. Cydia somehow increased the demand of i Phone and bring tons of new ideas for the innovation of i Phone. Then Apple learned to accept Hacking and i OS jailbreak. They even asked to change the laws of electronic security. Apple becomes a company that accept the activities of Hacking and i OS jailbreak. The smart step Apple walk on leads the company making better innovations than other companies. 
Another Steve Jobs quote is "Innovation distinguishes between a leader and a follower." It reflect both people and companies. A man who is innovative become leader and a company that knows the importance of innovation also becomes leader of other companies. Nowadays, computer companies, cellphone companies even business companies all treat Apple as model. A company will be successful with innovation. Steve Jobs becomes the greatest leader of Apple Company because he loved to learn things and innovate them to new things. And then it become the spirit of Apple company. 
