Who to Improve Students' Health 
As shown in the picture below, the boy became breathless and sweaty merely after going upstairs for three floors; however, his father did not felt tired at all. http://learning.sohu.com/20060707/n244149622.shtml 
The picture looks unrealistic. How can a boy at that age be so weak? But it is the reality in China: Many Chinese teenagers' body conditions are so poor that they will feel powerless after a little physical exercise. The current situation is caused by lack of exercises in teenagers' daily life Hu, 2011. Instead of playing ball games with friends at weekends, Chinese teenagers have to do their homework and attend extra classes. In China, students have mountains of homework every day; thus, they have to sit on a chair all day long without free time to play outside. Not until many students' sudden deaths took place during long-distance running from all around the country, people didn't realize the importance of physical exercise. Now, parents hope their children to have good scores as well as healthy bodies; nevertheless, it is hard to find a balance between these two things. In my perspective, only the Chinese government can solve the problem thoroughly. 
First of all, it is the Chinese government that forms teenagers' no-exercise life habit. Chinese people have been laying emphasis on academic degree when hiring employees, so those who has a bad education background usually leads a poor and unhappy life. Unlike western countries, Chinese government hasn't a perfect system to support the poor. Study is the only way to survive in the society, which has deeply engraved in every Chinese people's heart. Besides, Chinese students have just one chance to take the final examination, whose total score decide the students can enter a good university or not. It means that a student's fate is determined by one exam. No one cares about how much effort you have spent, universities are solely interested in your total score of the final examination. Even a top student may perform awfully in one exam, to avoid that, students and teachers believe that practice makes perfect. Then, it is not difficult to understand why Chinese teenagers' life is made up of study, study and study. Although we know the faculty system contributes to the problem, it is impossible for an ordinary citizen to change the system; it is the government's work to facilitate it. 
Students' and teachers' priority on academic subjects spontaneously make them look down on the physical education lessons. PE lessons are supposed to be the limited happy time that students are able to enjoy the exercise and relax their body. Nonetheless, they will become tired so easily that they can't complete the content in the PE lessons. So actually, most students hate PE lessons. They try every means to escape the PE lessons to do their homework. Under this circumstance, PE teachers are sure to have no interest in designing their classes to be attractive because no one takes PE serious. Therefore, Chinese PE lessons are usually boring. Teachers assigned missions like running eight hundred meters in four minutes; then students run desperately to finish the mission. What's more, PE lessons are always replaced by academic subjects like math and English. For PE scores don't account into the final transcript, PE teacher are willing to give up their class time to other teachers. When I was in my high school, we seldom had PE lesson since Grade Ten. My class teacher divided PE lessons to different academic subjects for granted. No matter how eager we wanted to have PE lessons, we just couldn't. Therefore, students have less exercise as they supposed to have. 
Chinese people's improper attitude towards physical exercise is generated long ago, deeply in everyone's mind. To make a living on their own, teenagers have to do nothing than study to ensure not to be defeated by others; thus they have no spare time to have exercise. In addition, students barely have PE lessons since other teachers will ask for the time of PE lessons. When they have PE lessons, the class content is always too boring to engage them into exercise. Worse more, the unpleasant experience of exercise gained from PE lessons keep students away from sports. Many of them consider physical exercise as a nightmare. For all these reasons, Chinese students are lack of exercise, which shapes their weak body conditions. After all, the government's excessive focus on academic performance and imperfect system caused the series of problems. So I think solely the government, the source of the problem, is able to encourage students to be involved in exercise and foster teenagers' health ultimately. 
