Argumentative Paper 
Living in Greek Houses 
Purdue University 
April 18, 2015 
	For students who just came into college, their interest to meet other friends and new people might be natural interests. To them, Greek houses might attract very much because in terms of Greek houses, bunch of teenagers live and play together. Just because of the fact that they want socializing, they decided to live in the Greek house is not very smart and valid. However, I assume that there is more than one reason to join into Greek houses. As well as socializing, Greek houses are good starting place to earn interpersonal abilities and communication skills. Moreover, in contrast of the common recognition of Greek houses, those are helpful place to get academic assists. I can strongly say that Greek houses are adequate place for students. 
	To begin with, Greek houses help students to get along with others easily. When students live together they tend to share their hobbies or interests so that they can become close real quick than others. For instance, based on the experience majority of my friends who joined Greek houses they became close with their fraternities and sororities peers. This is because after students join into Greek houses they have done so many other activities including social volunteers, trips and school party together so it is fully doubtable that they cannot become close each other. Therefore for those students who are interested in making friends and socializing Greek houses are great place to start. 
	Moreover, there will be some people who doubt that those socializing part is valid. They have concerned that when students getting together their negative effects will become bigger so that it will eventually transformed to bad influence. Based on the previous common recognition of Greek houses it could possibly doubtable that they are not helpful at all but just playing around to ruin students' life. And frankly speaking, it is true that when young boys or girls being together they become bold and possibly do some crazy things like crimes. However, according to the records, it showed that Greek houses students are not the only groups that trigger problems. Mostly, drunken 20s male recorded highest criminal rate in US. In other words, it is not necessarily a Greek-student. Rather, in Greek houses they have several activities of social volunteer according to the <name> who are in charge of Purdue Greek houses. To summarize, common notion that Greek students' negative influence doesn't necessarily correct. 
	Secondly, Greek houses are great place to get help for academic success. According to <name> she mentioned that there are database that only available for Greek-students. Prior students in each Greek house have gathered data for classes, which is extremely helpful to students. Moreover, when there are group of students study together in each group there is at least one student who can help others who are suffering from classes. That's exactly what tutor and study group is for. In other words, for some students Greek houses can be a real good study group for their academic achievement. 
	There are substantial amount of people who cast doubt that Greek houses only interrupt students' study and their academic success. This also traced back to the negative recognition of Greek houses. Some people who think Greek houses only care about drinking and playing argue that Greek houses ruin students' study in their college life. However, this turned out to be false. In Purdue University for example, there are minimum GPA to get in each fraternities and sororities. Moreover, the brochure that showed all Greek houses average GPA and required GPA shows that most of the sororities and fraternities have higher grade than non-Greek students. Most Greek houses have their minimum GPA requirement over 3. 0 and this is in general quite high grade for students in college. Their belief that Greek houses are not helpful is not valid according to the requirement that I mentioned above. 
	Last point that I would stress why Greek houses might be a great place to students is that while they are joining in Greek houses, students tend to develop their interpersonal skills and communication skills. Because in Greek houses more than 10 students live together, students are trying to get fit into each other and consider others not only them. Moreover, when there are conflicts with each other they try to solve it in a peaceful and good ways, which will eventually improve their conflict management skills. For Greek-students house itself is their home so they might want to be in peaceful way. Among that process, communication skills between them are highly required so it finally leads to improve their abilities related to interpersonal communication and conflict management skills. 
	To conclude I highly recommend Greek houses for college students for several reasons. Firstly, Greek houses are a great place for socializing, which will lead to experience great brotherhood and sisterhood. Second of all, it helps students studying. Greek houses can be efficient study guidance for students. Lastly, it will develop students' interpersonal communication skills and conflict management. To consider those advantages I assume that living in Greek houses can be a really good experience in students' college life. 
Running head: Living in Greek Houses 
