ENGL 106i 
P5d1_arp 
April 10, 2016 
The Existence of Vampires 
I've been doing a research of the coexistence of vampires and humans other than in the fictions. So far, after I had investigated the importance of defending vampires, I did an interview with Debbie Stevenson, an animal science expert, to find the possible explanation of vampirism regarding of vampire-like animals and disease. Moreover, I looked into three published articles about vampires to validate the existence of vampires. As a result, I can make the statements that vampires do not exist among us. 
Things always exist for a reason, so all the myths about vampires do not come from nowhere. When I was a teenager, I was obsessed with all the supernatural like vampires. This is why I chose to make vampires as the topic as my research. As we take it to the top of the food chain, it is highly possible to have predators like vampires to keep the balance of the nature. Since our human rely on our brain to survive, we have very fragile bodies. To make sure the prosperity of humans, it is essential to validate the existence of the vampires, before we put money and effort to build defensive weapons against vampires. Otherwise, it is still very assuring for people to know that we live in a peaceful world without any kind of threatens. (Shi, 2016) 
Mrs. Stevenson does not believe that vampires exist. As we talked about the vampire bets, which are always related to the vampires, she said they are the only mammal she can think of that feed on blood. In her opinion, the habits of vampires are against the basic rule of nature. When vampire bats bite people, they also carry a disease called rabies to human. People who get infected are very likely to act like a vampire, as they get irritable and fear water. This is probably where all the stories come from. Mrs. Stevenson also said that there are no predator for human beings, because she thinks that we are smarter than any other creatures. Therefore, the conclusion I drew from this interview is negative. (Shi, 2016) 
Later, I look into three published articles, they are The Natural History of Vampires from Liza Bundasen (1998), Cinema Fiction vs Physics Reality: Ghosts, Vampires and Zombies (Efthimiou & Gandhi, 2006), and Mathematical models of interactions between species: peaceful co-existence of vampires and humans based on the models derived from fiction literature and films (Strielkowski, Lisin & Welkins, 2013). Bundasen (1998) researched vampires regarding the origins and archetypes of vampires, which indirectly disprove the being of vampires. Most of the vampire legends can be found explanation from Bundasen's (1998) research. The calculations did by Efthimiou and Gandhi (2006) and two of the mathematical models calculated by Strielkowski, Lisin, and Welkins (2006) used scientific way to disprove the existence of vampires, as their authors pointed out that the coexistence would lead to a great imbalance of the populations of humans and vampires. The Harris-Meyer-Kostova model allows for the peaceful existence of vampires in our world, but is very fragile since the vampires are easily to lose control. And once they do, humans will be extinct just like the other two models. However, Bundasen (1998) also mentioned that the stories could be the protection of the vampires, and all the calculations and models are all come from fictions. Although all of the three researches have flaws, the results are still convincible to me that the vampires do not exist. (Shi, 2016) 
Yet, the origins have been found by Mrs. Stevenson, the myths have been unveiled by Bundasen (1998), and the problems have been solved by the calculations. I can now confidently make a conclusion that the vampires do not exist. 
Reference 
Bundasen, Liza (1998). The Natural History of Vampires. Volume 6. Retrieved from 
http://preserve.lehigh.edu/cas-lehighreview-vol-6/2 
Strielkowski, W., Lisin, E., & Welkins, E. (2013). Mathematical models of interactions 
between species: peaceful co-existence of vampires and humans based on the models derived from fiction literature and films. Applied Mathematical Sciences, 7(10), 453-470. 
Efthimiou, C. J., & Gandhi, S. (2006). Cinema Fiction vs Physics Reality: Ghosts, 
Vampires and Zombies. Retrieved from http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0608059. 
Stevenson, D. (2016, March 21). Personal Interview. 
Shi, Y. (2016). Research about the Existence of Vampires in our Real Life. Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, U.S. 
Shi, Y. (2016). Interview Report of the Research of Vampire. Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, U.S. 
Shi, Y. (2016). Synthesis of Published Articles of the Vampires' Existence. Purdue University, IN, U.S. 
2 
