Good Academic performance needs morning exercises 
	In American colleges, fitness centers are always popular to most students. Since most students have classes during the day, they have to exercise at night. However, evening exercises do not really help them sleep compared to morning exercises. Thus, students should work out in the morning to improve their sleep because morning exercises will help students wake up, change their circadian rhythm, and increase their memorizing ability. Therefore, by working out in the morning, students can optimize their sleep, which will influence their academic performance positively so that their college life will be easier. 
	Morning work out can help students wake up to let them better prepare for their morning classes (Crain, Esther). In American colleges, most students tend to stay up late to do whatever they like. A study from University of Rome has proven that people who sleep 6 hours and 45 min or less per night will be very sleepy in the morning on the next day (Curcio, Giuseppe). Therefore, they usually cannot get enough sleep so that they will be very sleepy after they get up in the morning. So, if they go to classes directly, their mental statuses will be low, which will lower their efficiency in classes. However, if they can go work out in the morning, their bodies will wake up gradually while they are working out because morning work out will make their bodies become excited. "Exercise also increases activity hormones and creates lactic acid as a byproduct, and both can make a body more restless," says professor Edward Stepanski from the University of Chicago. Although many students believe that work out in the morning will hurt their sleep duration more, their academic performances can be improved by working out in the morning because their excited body conditions will grant them higher efficiency during classes. 
	At the same time, morning work out can optimize students' circadian rhythm, which will increase their sleep quality. The study from Appalachian State University has shown that people who work out in the morning will spend 75% more time in deep sleep than those who do not (Experienced Life Staff). By optimizing circadian rhythm, students' wake and sleep schedule can change positively. This means by working out in the morning, students will feel sleepy earlier than before at night on this day. In this way, students will have a deeper sleep on that day, which will improve students' sleep quality. This is because by getting deeper sleep, students' will definitely have REM sleep, which is an essential period for a good sleep. During this REM sleep period, students will be rejuvenated so that they will not feel sleepy the next day. So, their academic performances will increase. 
	Besides the shift in circadian rhythm, working out in the morning will increase students' memorizing ability (Short, Michelle). Many people believe that work out in the morning will damage their sleep duration since they have less time for sleep. While this is true, morning work out will truly help students sleep longer without waking up in the middle of the night. What happens on the day of the exercise is that the deep sleep stages, stage three, four, and five will repeat more times than the days that they do not exercise. Since students' memorizing ability is closely related to sleep duration, this ability will increase tremendously. In this way, students will remember more stuff that their professors talk about in class and recall them in the next lecture. Therefore, their academic performance will increase this way. 
	Since morning exercise will help improve student's academic performances by assisting them to better wake up, optimizing their circadian rhythm, and increasing their memorizing ability, they should try to exercise in the morning to increase their academic performances. This is very important because morning exercise will make students' college life easier. Therefore, if students want to take a shorter way to graduation, exercising in the morning will definitely help them increase their academic performances. Moreover, the improvement in memorizing ability, sleep duration and quality can improve their health as well. Thus, morning exercise is very beneficial to students since it will let students have better academic performances and graduate easily. 
Work Cited 
Curcio, Giuseppe, Michele Ferrara, and Luigi De Gennaro. "Sleep Loss, Learning Capacity and Academic Performance." Science Direct. Science Direct, Oct. 2006. Web. 8 Nov. 2014. 
Crain, Esther. "6 Secrets to Getting Up for Morning Workouts." Womenshealthmag.com. 
Womenshealth, 30 Dec. 2013. Web. 07 Dec. 2014. 
Experienced Life Staff. "Exercise Early, Sleep Better." Experience Life. Experience Life, 01 
May 2012. Web. 03 Dec. 2014. 
Short, Michelle A., Michael Gradisar, Leon C. Lack, and Helen R. Wright. "Download PDFs." The Impact of Sleep on Adolescent Depressed Mood, Alertness and Academic Performance. Science Direct, Dec. 2013. Web. 08 Nov. 2014. 
Lu 3 
