Draft #1 
4/12/2016 
Will Paper Books Be Replaced By E-Books? 
A book is like a friend who can share our sorrows; a book is like a teacher who can teach us useful knowledge; a book is like a lighthouse which gives us direction when we are lost. Gorky said: "books are the stepping stones to human progress." Without books, human beings would never have such great achievements today. After the invention of computers, a new version of books came into our eyes - electronic books, which brought us a reading experience totally different from paper books. While reading e-books, we need to stare at the screen and scroll it down continuously with our fingers. Shortly after this new way of reading appeared, it attracted quite a large amount of young readers. Consequently, the sales of e-books soared up in a short time, and some e-book publishers even made such an assumption that paper books would disappear in decades. However, this tendency did not last for a long time as problems with digital books arose, and readers picked up paper books again. Therefore, for the question "will printed books be completely replaced by e-books?" I would say NO. 
Digital books are no longer as popular as they used to be, and even worse, there is a downward tendency in the sales. As Alter (2015) has discovered, the market share of e-books increased rapidly between 2008 and 2010, which even put hardcover books in danger of extinction. Some people even predicted that e-books would catch up with paper books by 2015. However, things did not go the way as predicted. A report showed that e-books only occupied 20 percent of the total book market, which means that they did not make any progress in the last few years. The possible reason is that most e-book publishers recently have signed a new contract with Amazon the biggest book seller in order to increase the price, which considerably dampened e-book readers' enthusiasm, and therefore, cause a large amount of people returned to hardcover books. Take my own experience as an example. I used to buy a lot of e-books on Kindle. However, recently, I found that the price of electronic books was increasingly higher, and sometimes there was only several dollars difference in price between these two versions of books, which drove me to move back to paper books. What e-books that attract me most is their more affordable price. If Amazon continue to manipulate the price and just want to make more profit, in the foreseeable future, e-books may step down from the history of stage instead of printed books. 
The second reason that makes printed books superior to digital books is that they can provide readers with a much better reading experience. As Rosenwald (2015) has described, what readers like most about physical books is the feeling when touching them, the smell of papers, and the notes written on page margins. In contrast, e-reader devices are made of plastic and metal, which are hard and cold. In addition, the author pointed out that people could hardly pay attention to what they read while starring at the screen. The reason is that there are so many things on Kindle, IPad, and some other electronic reading devices that make readers easily distracted. For example, while we are reading a novel on IPad, news or messages from Facebook often pop out. After we close them and go back to continue our reading, it is quite possible that we cannot recollect what we just thought. Also, from the previous interview with my friend Drew, he prefer to read paper version of Bible, although there is no difference in the content of these two versions. As he read through the whole Bible again and again, he felt that the papers had become part of the story. To sum up, e-books will never occupy the position of paper books. 
Lastly, the demand for e-books are reduced by the bad performance of e-reader devices. Take the most popular e-reader, Kindle, as an example. On the official website of Amazon, we can have access to the detailed information about Kindle. Amazon claims that Kindle needs to be recharged every two weeks. However, this does not mean that we can read on Kindle continuously for two weeks. It is based on the premise that the Kindle must stay in sleeping mode or be turned off. Actually, one charge could only support 9 hours of continuous reading, which means that it needs to be recharged every day. What is more, there are about 200 charge-discharge life cycles for each Kindle battery. Even worse, if we use it improperly, the battery lifespan might be shorter. As Peterson (2016) stated that an update was released recently for first generation of Kindle. If users could not update their devices on time, their Kindle would be unable to connect the internet and online bookstore. I am wondering that: "is it worth it to spend so much energy taking care of e-reader devices?" We need to recharge it every day, replace battery at certain intervals, and even keep in mind when we should update it. 
For those who hold that e-books are very helpful in improving the efficiency of studying, I disagree. Although in some cases, videos and sound in most digital books can help children to get a better understanding, the cons overwhelmingly outweigh the pros. Hetter (2015) in her article pointed out that: "Children who sleep with smart phones or other "small screens" in the bedrooms reported sleeping less during the week compared to children without devices in their rooms." the quality of sleep determines how well children can perform at school in the following day. Therefore, children should better stay away from electronic devices, which can possibly cause insomnia and lower the learning efficiency. 
In conclusion, the demand for printed books are greatly increased in recently years, and an increasing number of e-book readers return back to paper not just because of nostalgia. Instead, it is just because they feel much more comfortable while holding physical books in hands. In my opinion, printed books are irreplaceable and will be firmly persistent. 
