P4d2 
March, 29, 2016 
Data Analysis and Virtualization Technology Benefits Training and Learning 
Data Analysis and Virtualization Technology (VR) is a new technology that is developing in an amazing speed nowadays. This technology works with a two - step concept, which is to analyze data first and then use special program and devices to reproduce a virtual simulation of the original objects. Since this technology is widely being discussed, lots of opinions appears towards the development of VR. Personally, I strongly hold the opinion that with development of VR, people's learning style will change and thus benefit a lot from VR. 
In my recent interview to Mr. <name> , who is a <title> working at Purdue University Envision Center, Mr. <name> said that the VR technology is nowadays applied on not only video games but also much more areas that are far beyond out imagination. For example, he said that the Envision Center is dealing with some repair training projects which is required by some car companies. It's usually time costing to teach students how to repair cars, since they students have to actually operate on cars to get a better study experience, and it's usually hard to have so many cars at the same time and keep the safety of not only cars but also all students. However, with the use of Virtual Reality technology, a virtual car reproduction of the equipment was produced and students can actually operate on the virtual car with controllers. In this way, the safety of both cars and students are ensured. What's more, the efficiency of this training is greatly improved since students can repeatedly exercise on the repairing process over and over just with the VR helmet. According to Mr. <name> , companies are willing to pay for those training projects because they found that with the virtual training, the cost of training is actually lowered down while the efficiency is increased compared with traditional training method. 
VR is also used in Astronomy. Abbott, Brian, Emmart, and Wyatt (2004) declares that with the using of a virtual-reality program called Digital Universe Atlas, scientists are allowed to reproduce a 3-D model of universe that simulates the real universe. They illustrated that this simulated universe provides not only science field learners but actually everyone with a closer touch with the real universe. Also, they declared the digital universe makes people feel more connected to the universe they are living in since they are able to see the grand scenery of the solar system just in front of their eyes, which gives them some more feeling of belongings. As we can see, with the VR technology, the education of astronomy became more attractive and efficient. 
Admittedly, there are some drawbacks of VR technology. For example, the price is not so friendly. A VR helmet usually will cost hundreds dollars, which may significantly increase the cost of the learning process. However, when looking at the price of VR devices these years, we can see a significant drop down in the price. The price of HTC Vive is $799, the Oculus Rift is $599 and the recently announced PS VR is just $399. A television will usually cost hundreds dollars, so why not choose a $399 portable personal display system? As we can see, with competition between different devices companies, the price of VR headset is becoming cheaper and cheaper. Even though we still can't predict how well they work, at least we can expect the price of VR headset to become lower as the VR technology become more and more mature. Thus, personally I don't think the price will become a huge problem. 
Above all, I strongly hold the opinion that the development of VR technology will influences and benefits training and leaning process. Since this technology is not totally mature yet, I think more tests should be done on this technology and people should hold a more positive attitude towards the development of it. 
