College students should read more 
Purdue University 
College students should read more 
Once I saw a research which was about the time that Chinese college students spent on reading when they were in the university. The research really surprised me for the reason that it showed most Chinese students spent less than five hours on reading the books every week. In my mind, the best time for people to read is the college time, no matter what kind of books they choose to read. And I have three reasons for that. Firstly, reading the books which are related to what the students are learning can be helpful for them to understand their major better and more efficient. In another way, reading the books for fun can help students have rest with their brain after the heavy assignments everyday. Lastly, no matter what the books students are reading, it will make students have good habits that they will have the curiosity to the things around them and after they get jobs, they will still reading and learning for new things. 
In one side, reading the books that are related to the majors that students are learning really will take the advantage for them to learn easily. After graduating from the high school, students often can not adapt to the high workload of the college life, and it is hard for them to learn new knowledge in a short time. There are often students who can not finish the reading assignments on time when they first get into the campus. When I took an interview with one of my professor, <name> , she told me that when students first came into the college, the level of their English are about five or six. However, the level that students need to do well in the colleges are about nine or ten. Therefore, reading is like one of the best ways to help students improve their abilities of reading. Moreover, reading the books that are related to the major the students are studying can not only enhance their abilities of reading, but also can helpr students get the knowledge that the professors can not include in the class. The knowledge of one filed could help students understand the others of the same field. 
Finally, no matter what kind of the books we are reading, they will always take long term advantages for all of us. In the one hand, people who like reading are always curious about the world around them. They will think about the reason that things happen and find the answers from the books or the other ways. Once a person has the ability and the thought to find answers of his or her questions and connect them to what they have already learned or the information they have already know, that can be an incredible skill no matter what job they have in the future. In another hand, if the students are getting used to read every day, it will become a long term habit. Which means even after they get jobs, have families, need to take more responsibilities, whey will still have the habit for their entire life. 
All in all, I have the strong opinion that students should read more during their college time. And no matter for what books they are reading, it will be a good thing for both their study and life. And there might be people ask why college can be the best time for them to read. During the time people are in the high school, they are more likely to put their attention on general and basic knowledge. But after they get into the college, they start to put all their energy on the specific areas, also, the information that they get from the books that is connected with what they have learned from the class, will be the solid foundation for them after they get jobs. 
COLLEGE STUDENTS SHOULD READ MORE 
Running head: COLLEGE STUDENT SHOULD READ MORE 1 
