The Use of Advertisements 
	Television advertisements started to appear in the 1940s and nothing stopped it from becoming one of the most common advertising method today. Television advertisements are greatly appealing and they have the ability to make connections with the audience. However, television advertisements has many drawbacks such as the high cost, overwhelming people, lower people's self esteem, and demolishing small business. 
	 TV advertising are very expensive. The longer the airing time, the high the cost. Also, a lot of money is spent on preparing the commercial. Money that can be use to help unfortunate people who need assistance in their life. Billions of dollars are spent on commercials while many student are suffering from debt from the student loans some even can't go to college because they don't have the money. 
	Advertising leads many people to being overwhelmed by the endless need to decide between competing demands on their attention -Recent research suggests that people are on average less happy than they were thirty years ago, despite the fact that they have much more stuff than before. Nowadays, people have much more choices of things to spend their money on. costumers feel that a bad purchase is their mistake for not choosing more wisely, and they regret not selecting something else better instead. This drive people to become overwhelmed that they cannot feel satisfied with anything. 
	Many adverts do more than just advertising products. Some try to make people feel inferior about themselves. Perceptions of style and beauty especially have been dreadfully distorted. Many people have low-self esteem because they feel they should be thinner and more attractive as well as perfect, just like the models they see in adverts. 
	Companies only care about making money. This means that they will not hesitate to advertise unhealthy or harmful products. For example, fast food commercials play a huge part in people obesity. The Companies try to make people eat as much food as possible without any concern for their general health. 
	TV advertising gives an unfair advantage to big businesses. Small businesses can have much better products, but they cannot manage to pay for to advertisements , so people would not know anything about them. This lowers the quality of products for customers, and places a huge barricade to the success of small businesses. 
	To sum up, companies should be allowed to advertise as much as they do know. Restrictions and more attention to the commercials' materials must be applied. The waste of money, and the undermining on people feeling and the cultural values should be stopped. Also, more health related ads should be created, and new born businesses should be subsidized by the government so that they can have a fighting chance against huge corporations. 
