P5d3 Argumentative Essay 
April, 26 2015 
Phone should be allowed to use in aircraft 
	In my opinion, I think phones should be allowed to use in the aircraft. At least, all current evidence suggests that almost every flight has a mobile phone and electronic device is opened, and the plane didn't fall down from the sky. (Simons) For the convenience of life, I think to use mobile phone on the aircraft is appropriate and necessary in the future. 
	In the Los Angeles International Airport, the plane was going to take off. There is a familiar voice "please turn off all electronic instruments". There was a guy called Alec Baldwin, he appeared in the famous show "30 Rock". He was holding his own mobile phone for a long time, and he refused to put his phone down. Baldwin was immersed into the world of a scrabble game called "Words with Friends". Flight attendants tried repeatedly discouraged him. He still refused to put down his mobile phone no. Baldwin was sent out of aircraft under the watchful eyes of people in aircraft. (Calabrese 2011) Why we need to turn-off our phones in the airplane? Time back to 1991. Some pilots and flight attendants gave feedbacks that electronic equipment will affect the aircraft navigation system. Electronic equipment may interfere the communication between cockpit and the ground. The US Federal Communications Commission has issued a ban immediately. Although this provision has been widely accepted by the public, but in the civil aviation industry has a lot of controversy. Some of the civil aviation industry think that phone doesn't influence aircraft, but some of them think phone does influence. Over the years, Boeing and the discovery channel and other institutions took a lot of experiments. But until now, Boeing and the discovery channel still did not find any evidence to prove that the mobile phone can produce any notable effect on the communication between air and ground. USA Federal Aviation Administration has just said, the wireless signal of electronic devices "may" interfere with flight operations. (Simons 2012) With the experiments that Boeing and other institutions took, it shows obviously shows that mobile phone has no effect on the aircraft. "Do Our Gadgets Really Threaten Planes?" 
	According to my interview with a <name> who majors in Aviation Communication, <name> told me that there is interference when you don't shut off your phone. At that time, I think we should turn off our phone when we get into the aircraft, because it does have certain security risk if we don't shut down our phone. Then <name> told me that phone is able to use when you get up to ten thousand above the ground, because there is none connection between phone and ground station. Most airlines in the U.S. allow people to use phone during the flight now. 
	I fully trust phone will not interfere aircraft. Because I think the signal from a small device is way different than a huge thing such as airplane. From my research, there are some evidence support my opinion. The signal that aircraft uses is 118MHz band, but the GSM mobile phone uses is about 900MHz band and the frequency of the WIFI signal is even higher. Maybe you don't have the concept of frequency. It is like when you listen to radio, two channel may affect each other in close proximity. But signal for aircraft and phone is very different, they could not interfere each other in theory. It indicates that radio frequency emissions from the phones tested in this study should not interfere with the avionics systems examined in this study. (Kuriger 2003) From this study, it further proved my opinion. Phone should be allowed to use in the aircraft.( 
	I think phone does have interference on aircraft, but it is very small and negligible interference All evidence shows that there is no accident directly caused of mobile phone interference. Flight attendants' feedbacks were not 100% credible because it is a subjective idea about their experience. What we need is an objective fact. From the research, scientist proved that phone's signal would not interfere aircraft. I think we need to ban phone if phone could interfere aircraft and cause safety problem. But if phone doesn't interfere aircraft, we can use phone in aircraft for sure. 
Sources 
Kuriger, G., Grant, H., Cartwright, A., & Heirman, D. (2003). Investigation of spurious emissions from cellular phones and the possible effect on aircraft navigation equipment. Electromagnetic Compatibility, IEEE Transactions on,45(2), 281-292. 
	Calabrese, Erin. (2011, Dec 6). Alec Baldwin thrown off AA flight at LAX for 'playing game' on phone. New York Post. Retrieved from http://nypost.com/2011/12/06/alec-baldwin-thrown-off-aa-flight-at-lax-for-playing-game-on-phone/ 
Simons, D., Chabris, C. (2012, Sept 7) Do Our Gadgets Really Threaten Planes? The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved from http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10000872396390444273704577637703253402734 
