Does Glass Ceiling Really Exist? 
Purdue University 
Does Glass Ceiling Really Exist? 
	Glass ceiling, known as an intangible barrier within a hierarchy that prevented women or minorities from obtaining upper-level positions, is a serious social bias (Merriam-Webster, para. 2). Whether this phenomenon exists is a debatable topic lasted for a long time. Some people believe glass ceiling phenomenon does not exist at all because it seems no one is suffering from it. Nevertheless, my personal opinion is that this phenomenon does exist in this society and it is just around us. Glass ceiling phenomenon is a serious bias towards certain people, and even worse, it has a huge influence onto different fields like business field, academic field and so on. It is not that hard to find out if it really exists because there are many evidences and examples in our lives distinguish the existence of glass ceiling phenomenon. Let's break it down into pieces in order to make people realize glass ceiling is here just around us. 
	Working places are the most significant area that we could tell glass ceiling. According to Catalyst, women currently hold 20 (4.0%) of CEO positions at S&P 500 companies in this world. The reason why there are way more male CEOs than female CEOs is glass ceiling phenomenon. This transparent barrier stops female from getting into administrative positions. The higher the positions are, the fewer the females will be. One of my working experiences could also be a good explanation. Since I worked at CGB (China Guangfa Bank) last summer, I have realized this phenomenon. Every time we had conference, the upper-level administrative leaders includes presidents are more likely to be males instead of females. Females were doing very basic work like bank tellers or lobby managers. By talking with them, I felt some of them are well capable to handle higher position because they all have the professional skills as other males do. I was confusing about that situation, but then I suddenly realized the existence of this kind of bias towards females. This is not case-by-case, think about the journal Harvard Business Review, even the celebrities posted on that journal were more males. That is, working place is also the place where glass ceiling exists. 
	Besides working places, even academic field on campus has the same situation. Professor <name> (2016) also shared an example of gender bias in academic field. Females are as easy as males to get a job in university; however, those females will have lower salary increasing rate comparing to other male employees. It is not because they are not good and capable enough, they just have lower salary ( <name> personal communication, March 30, 2016). According to Institute for Women Policy Research, in 2015, female full-time workers made only 79 cents for every dollar earned by men, a gender wage gap of 21 percent (Para. 1). On the other hand, those female employees are even harder to get promotion in their occupations, unable to get upper-level positions has nothing to do with whether they are lacking of professional abilities and personal qualities, the reason for keeping those female employees is trying to show that they have a so called "gender balance" in their department ( <name> 2016). Female employees do not have a chance to do the "core assignment" of the departments, they are more likely to be assigned as some jobs like working at front table. Professor <name> (2016) also mentioned a policy called "stop the clock" which means a female professor's probation will be one more year longer than others if she is going to give a birth to her baby. Everyone wants the probation be as short as possible but "stop the clock" is definitely unfair for females; there might be other things that attract males' attention just like female has a baby, but why it is not applicable for males to use "stop the clock". Females should not be treated unequally that way, but glass ceiling has even more influence toward other fields like politics. 
	Glass ceiling exists in politics field as well. According to Cahoon (2016), "we are currently living under a record-high number of simultaneous female world leaders. For several years, the stable status quo has been around 20 female world leaders at any given time. For much of 2014, the number was 22--a record high" (Para. 2). Though in 2014 the percentage of female leaders is a peak, there were only 22 female world leaders. Comparing to male presidents, vice-presidents and prime ministers, this percentage is way less than male leaders'. All in all, it is easy to tell that females in politics fields are also extremely hard to get promotion. 
	Social study professors think it that way as well. One of the professors who is researching on gender bias aspect even gave me the causes of glass ceiling problem. She told me that historical reason is the most basic one. Back to the beginning of last century, females did not go to work like a man. Then after world war two, they started to enter the business field and worked as men's jobs. However, they can only do pink-collar work and ended up the job at a low level due to their low education level. Also, the men in charge are more likely to get along with people who have same gender with him. Lastly, stereotypes towards females at that that was also a big reason because women were "supposed" to stay at home and take care of the kids ( <name> personal communication, March 31, 2016). Those causes not only verified the existence of glass ceiling phenomenon, but explained how it was formed as time went by. 
	Some people may hold the opinion that glass ceiling is not real because there are many female dominated fields like textile industry. For those female dominated industries, I have to admit there are way more female employees than males. However, those females are mostly textile workers instead of the administrative leaders ( <name> , 2016). They work in the factory and it is very hard for them to get promotion. Even they have chances to be a leader, it will be slower than other male workers who have the same working skills and experiences. The general manager, department managers and other upper-level positions are mostly males, so how could not we tell the existence of glass ceiling? 
	Obviously, glass ceiling is an existing serious social problem around the globe. It has a broad influence toward working places, academic fields and even politics aspects. Females in this society are still suffering from it, this gender bias. People may not fix it immediately, but we could at least do something to make it better. Publishing laws is a good way to protect females' rights and as time flies, we will all be aware of what the truth and justice are ( <name> 2016). At that time, glass ceiling will dissolve itself and this problem will no longer be a problem. 
