			Stay Rational And Relax 
Electric cars have show people very promising future because they are more efficient and clean, but due to the insufficient technology they cannot be the mainstream of the cars people use. Recharging the cars is the biggest problem of all. Then some people might suggest government, as a powerful institution, should invest the society-beneficial industry. However, I do not think this investment is worth doing because this investment is too expensive, hardly profitable, and harmful to the industry itself. 
According to the interview with Amon Pereira, the team leader of Purdue Electric Racing team, the battery is a big problem. For a daily used car, the capacity of the battery needs to be big enough to avoid charging in the middle of the day. Indeed, Using the 110V electricity system and a charger of 10W to charge a 60k Wh battery that has enough capacity will take 6-10 hours. That is just too long for daily use. The electric cars still need to be recharged too frequently and cost a lot to use and maintain, so people are not attracted to buy electric cars. 
First, financing electric cars industry is going to be very expensive. Let us assume Chinese government wants to make Shanghai a city of electric cars, the first task to build recharge stations for electric cars to recharge themselves. In order to achieve this first goal, governments need to build many recharge stations all over the city just like gas stations, and there are 500 gas stations currently in Shanghai. So government needs to build 500 recharge stations to make driving an electric car as conveniently as driving a normal car. One recharge station cost approximately 60,000 US Dollar according to the report of PMI OUTLET, and 500 of them cost 30,000,000 US dollar. According to the Annul public spending report of Shanghai government in 2012, 30,000,000 US dollar is more than the money Shanghai paid for Chinese military annually. And build all those recharge stations is not the end, maintaining those stations is also very expensive. According to PMI OUTLET, maintaining one recharge station is going to cost 2000 US dollar every year. For 500 of them, 1,000,000 US Dollar is needed every year. So building and maintaining those recharges stations alone is unacceptably expensive, how would it be possible for government to achieve the goal of making the electric car the mainstream? 
Second, it is hardly possible for this investment to profit and support itself. First the electricity we can sell could not be too expensive because it has a very competitive rival, gas. If the people need to pay more on electricity to let the car run than pay on gas, they would not buy electric cars. One liter of the gas costs 1. 5 dollar averagely, and one-liter gas keeps a car running for 11km. 1 mile for an electric car costs 0.3k Wh so 11 km costs 3.3k Wh. That means 1k Wh for 45cents is the highest price possible. The cost to produce a k Wh of electricity is about 1 cent, so the there is 44 cent of profit possible for one k Wh of electricity, and this is the best scenario. The oil price still has a large space to drop, and the interest of the debt government need to pay is rather a big problem. 
Third, governments' investment will hinder the development of the technology. People who do business on electric cars have the willing to try every way to make the technology develop and electric car business profitable, but if government invests now, government will take most of the market and stop those people who seek more advanced technology 
It is understandable that in order to reduce the pollution made by transportation, electric cars deserve more support from government. But with rational analysis and calculation, government is not able to help but only makes things worse. If the technology is mature, the market will act automatically to offer electric cars to the public. So government do not have to worry. 
What is more convincing is that good news keeps coming. A research group of Nanyang Technology University has developed a new battery that can be recharged up to 70% within only 2 minutes and durable over 20 years. This new technology replace the traditional graphite used for the negative pole with titanium dioxide tubes. Titanium dioxide is very cheap to find and manufacture. After process by the new technology titanium dioxide is going to be extremely that dramatically increase the speed of chemical reaction, which makes the super-fast recharge possible. With this new technology, the manufacture and usage cost of the battery is much lower than before, which makes the future of the electric car more promising. It is safe to say, after this battery putting into production, an electric car will be the first choice if anyone wants to buy a car. 
I know trying to do something to help is a great part of human goodness, but without rational thinking and decision, good heart might do something really bad just like spoiling a child. So stop worrying, and let the right people do the right job. 
http://blog.rmi.org/blog_2014_04_29_pulling_back_the_veil_on_ev_charging_station_costs 
http://www.shanghai.gov.cn/shanghai/node2314/node2319/node24964/node29275/u26ai34642.html 
