Educational value of video games 
Because video games contain many different tasks and challenges, playing video games can help children learn how to face and solve problems independently. Furthermore, because digital games have the ability to consistently attract and keep children's attention, when teachers combine video games into the classroom to teach students, students can be more focused and engaged to the course content and consequently learn knowledge in more depth. Therefore, educators should use educational games to teach children in order to help children improve their academic performances. 
Video games can allows children to build multiple useful skills by asking children to complete various tasks in the game. Unlike other entertainments, video games allow children to participate and take control in the games. Alan Gershenfeld, an expert of computer games at Arizona State University, Stated, "Games were much more diverse and textured than most people realized. They are different from other popular media in that they are interactive and participatory." Video games are interactive and participatory because children's every movement in the games is all responsible to the outcome of their missions in the games. Once children are responsible to those missions, they tend to pay more attention to the game and therefore, they can be easily influenced by digital games. Children's missions in digital games include controlling different characters, facing numerous challenges, working together with other players and solving difficult tasks on their own. Therefore video games are not just a simple entertainment way to please children, but also an effective way to improve their learning ability, develop their critical thinking, train their mind and strengthen their collaboration and decision making capability. Educators should use video games to help their students to train those specific skills because all those ability can bring huge benefits to children's future lives. 
Educators should teach with digital games also because that game-based teaching can make children engaged and focused in the classroom and therefore learn knowledge in more depth. According to a study conducted by University Putra Malaysia, "Technology can be used to engage students to think and take actions. In that case, computer games are not just an entertainment tool, but they are offering opportunities for educators to engage students into thinking, making decisions and actions." This means that when designing a game to teach students in the classroom, teachers can set up some activities about certain knowledge, like math questions which they are teaching in the classroom. So when children play the educational games in the classroom, they are learning certain knowledge and at the same time they can still feel pleasant because of the fancy pictures and voices shown in the game. However, in a traditional class which do not have any technology supported, teachers just teach their students by talking continuously, which is not attractive and interesting at all. Traditional class is so boring that children can not always keep up with teachers, even though those students do understand the importance of learning. This kind of traditional teaching can no longer satisfy children's need nowadays, therefore teachers need to use video games in the classroom to capture children's interest and attention, and then help them learn knowledge much more efficiently. 
Furthermore, not only can children benefit from educational games, teachers who use games to teach can also benefit from educational games. Because computers have the ability to gather data precisely and quickly, when students play the educational games, computers can record their performances. In this way, teachers can use this data to grade their students effectively. In addition, when children answer the questions in the games, computers can also document how many times children have failed or succeeded on certain question. In this way, teachers can easily know children' weakness and strength part in the course content and therefore adjust the focus of the class to help children improve their weakness. 
Of course, even though game-based learning can bring numerous benefits to children, it can also bring some negative consequences on children. Once teachers allow their students to use digital games to study, it is very possible that some students may spend excessive amount of time and energy on video games because children's daily lives tend to be much more boring and unattractive than digital games. Even though video games can help children with academic performance, excessive use of computer games can also waste children's limited time which they should spent on studying. Therefore, in order to prevent kids from digital game addiction, some of the educators refuse to use games in the classroom. However, this negative consequence can be easily avoid if educators can help children manage their time properly. For example, when children play educational games, educators can set an alarm to remind children when should they turn off the computer. Therefore, instead of focusing at computer games negative influence, educators should focus more on how educational games help children's development, teach children with educational games and give them appropriate guidance about how to play the games. 
As video games becoming a significant part in children's lives, it is inevitable that more and more children are heavily influenced by video games. Playing video games can make children independent, develop their mind, improve their critical thinking ability and help them learn new knowledge effectively. So educators should use digital games to teach children because digital games can be a really efficient tool to improve children's academic performance. The educational value of video games is so profound, we need to utilize those great values to help children learn and achieve more in the future. 
Work Cited 
Gershenfeld, Alan. "Mind Games." Scientific American Feb. 2014: 54-59. PDF File. 
Eow, Yee Leng; Ali, Wan Zah bte Wan; Mahmud, Rosnaini bt.; Baki, Roselan. Computers & Education Vol.54, Jan. 2010: 46-161. PDF File." 
