28 Nov 2015 
Chinese students at Purdue University: if they should step out their ethnic community 
The importance of adjusting and fitting into American culture and college life is undebatable. However, there are always international students who are unwilling to step out their own ethnic community and to embrace the local community. The Chinese student body at Purdue University is a very good case for this study, because Purdue has one of the largest undergraduate international student bodies, with the Chinese student population upholds approximately one-tenth of entire student body. Furthermore, myself, as an undergraduate student at Purdue, have the opportunity to interview many of my Chinese upper classmates, friends, and experienced academic advisors for their point of views. During the research, I heard two different kinds of voices, one claim that it is unnecessary for Chinese students to step out their ethnic community, while the other one denies. 
Before look at the two different views, we must first look at the purpose of this argument and research, and the backgrounds of how Chinese students are doing in 
American colleges. Purdue, although has been known as a melting pot, many Chinese students have not truly melted together in this melting pot. After the first semester of studying at Purdue, I found that my Chinese friends would prefer to go to lunch with the other Chinese, sitting at an all-Chinese student table. And during labs and study sessions, they would also work only with their Chinese friends. Additionally, they seem not care much of the school events like football games or musical concerts. The topics they enjoy discussing the most are always about the best Chinese restaurant in town, the latest 
Chinese TV shows, or some Chinese club events like karaoke competition. Some of my Chinese friends tell me that they feel more comfortable this way, and they do not see the meaning of making American friends on purpose. Because they will eventually go back to China after four years of undergraduate study and will never see those American people again anyway; why would they even bother to make these friends then? Some of my friends argue that the American community is neither friendly nor welcome toward foreigners, so that they feel uncomfortable to join it. This phenomenon is not only happening at Purdue, but also many other colleges across the States. According to an interview to some undergraduate students from University of Iowa by CNN in February 2015, almost all the international students have had the feeling of being isolated by the other American students. One student from the interview refused to even talk to his 
American classmates after being mocked for his Chinese accent, and he was told by his American classmates to go back to China. Some of them got very bad depression because of this, and some of them just gave up and dropped out of college because they could not handle this kind of embarrassment anymore. 
According to my friends at Purdue who had the similar experience as the previous paragraph has mentioned, they argue that it was not their fault to not fit into American culture. Instead, it was the American community that keeps them from fit in. And time after time, they kind of just tired to try hard to fit themselves in. They would rather to stay in their own ethnic community. 
On the other hand, according to my academic advisor, Mr. <name> , who has been advising many undergraduate international students from their freshmen year to their senior year, fitting into American college life is essential for international students. In the interview, <name> states that studying abroad should include both the experience inside the classroom and the activities and fun with local friends after classes; the international students should learn both culturally and academically. <name> also states that the Purdue is blessed to have so many international students, and the university is trying hard to help international students to fit into American college life better. The university provides new student orientation program "BGR" and "BGRi" for example, programs the university offered to all the domestic and international incoming freshmen, helping them to get to know each other before the school get started. During the orientation program, there is variety of activities to help the international students to get use to American college systems, and games help them to know each other's background better. Additionally, there are also many American student organizations that are looking forward to recruit international students. <name> suggests that Chinese students should not only limit themselves with Chinese organizations but also American ones. 
From this interview with Mr. <name> , it seems totally different than those Chinese students' view from previous paragraph. There seems to be many friendly American people and organizations there to help international students. According to <name> , it seems like to be Chinese students' wrong to limit themselves with Chinese student organizations and clubs. However, In my point of view the Chinese student organizations can usually offer more help than harm. But it is also true that these organizations can create ethnic community, which isolates them from the rest of domestic community. According to an old journal written by Walter J. Ballard (1909), the article Chinese Students In America, and published by Trustees of Boston University, Chinese student had this long tradition of gathering as a ethnic group ever since last century. Back in 1901, some of the Chinese students attending the university in the States founded the organization name of the Chinese Students' Alliance of America, which is very like today's Chinese Students & Scholars Association. The Alliance of America also publishes the Chinese Students' Monthly, a magazine in English and the Chinese 
Students' Annual, in Chinese, with a goal of uniting all Chinese students on the broad. 
Additionally, they had many local club activities in their own colleges such as Berkeley, 
New Haven, Amherst, Illinois, Chicago, Wisconsin, Cornell, Penn, Michigan and Colombia. In my opinion, if Chinese students already had this long tradition of gathering as organization, why would we bother to force ourselves to leave something that we are comfortable with. And I do not think this would undermine the path toward fitting into 
American college life. Instead, I think both Chinese and American organizations are equally important for college life. Because they can both help Chinese students to adjust life here in the states. 
Still, many Chinese students are not willing to step out their ethnic community; they think it is better for them to not step out their comfort zone. Even though it is beneficial for Chinese students to learn more about American college life and culture, nobody can force them to do so. Despite all the reasons they can give to refuse embrace American culture. What we can do is respect their own decisions, try to be good models for them, embrace American culture by ourselves first, and the others might follow our action. After doing this research, I had a better picture of how and why Chinese students are unwilling to step out the ethnic community. But after all, as international students, I think we still should try our best to embrace the foreign culture. Otherwise, what is the point of studying abroad? If we do not step out our ethnic circle, what would be the difference between of attending college in America and studying the international courses that are taught by the American professors at the Chinese university? 
