If sex education is a crucial reason that Chinese and American different opinion toward sex 
Purdue University 
Introduction 
Alena from America and Xiaohong from China are good friends. One day after class, Alena happily told Xiaohong she had sex yesterday with her new date who she met three days ago. Xiaohong is shocked. Alena asked Xiaohong why she is so shocked about this, Xiaohong said she think Alena should wait for several weeks or month to see if her date is the right one for her. Alena thinks it is OK to have sex with the date as the timing is right. Alena and Xiaoming's attitude toward sex can represent some interviewees' attitude who I interviewed toward sex from China and America. Chinese and Americans seems to have different opinion toward sex. Some people said one major difference between Chinese and Americans is American has more qua nuance sex education, but Chinese are lack of it. So sex education is a crucial factor that caused Chinese and American have different opinion toward sex. While I think sex education can be a reason that Chinese and Americans have different attitude toward sex, but sex education is not the most important reason that Chinese and Americans have different opinion toward sexuality. 
First of all, the different opinion about sex among Chinese and Americans can due to many reasons. There are many things could influence what we think of sex. I have interview Professor <name> about what factors can have influences on our attitude toward sex. Professor <name> answered that Culture, tradition, religious, Media, Peers, school education, Physical trauma, Sex (Male vs Female), Families, etc. can be factors that result in different sex attitude. Talking about everyone has his or her one experiences and his or her own insight of the world. The difference between each of human is the marvel of the world. And the individual variation caused we possess a different view about sex. Gender can be a reason that we view sex differently. For example, even women and men will not consider sex as the same way. Anthropologist Helen Fisher (2010) said in a video "anatomy of sex", what a man is looking for a woman can be very different from what a woman is looking for a man. Since a woman has only an ovum a time and a man has three hundred million sperms, a woman would be pickier to sperms. She wants to find the best sperm to reproduction. This could explain why sometimes women are more reluctant to have sex than man. 
Besides individual differences, culture and religion can be reasons to explain why Chinese and Americans have different opinion toward sex. China has a long patriarchal social context, this social context somehow influence our social requirement for women are higher than the requirement for women. In Chinese traditional social values, the virginity of women are very important. In ancient China, Fan Zhongyan wrote in "The cemetery rules", Chastity shows when people do not have premarital sex. However, as Huber, Valerie J. and Firmin, Michael W said, the sexual revolution of the 1960s and 1970s turned America's moral sensibility on its head (2014). The sexual revolution changes Americans' view toward sex. Attitudes to a variety of issues changed, sometimes radically, throughout the decade. The urge to 'find oneself', the activism of the 1960s, and the quest for autonomy were characterised by changes towards sexual attitudes at the time (M. J. Heale, 2001). 
The religion also can be an important factor that influence our opinion toward sex. In China, religion is not very popular. According to CFPS 2012 survey, Nationwide only 10% of the persons questioned indicated that they had a religious belief, 89.6% described themselves as having no religious belief. Among religious believers, Buddhists were the largest group with around 6.7% of the adults questioned, followed by the Protestants with 1.9%. But in America, there are many believers. According to Pew research center, the largest religion in the US is Christianity, claimed by the majority of the population (71% in 2014) (2015). From those queried, roughly 46.5% of Americans are Protestants, 25.4% are Catholics, 2% are Mormons (the name commonly used to refer to members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints), and 1% have affiliations with various other Christian denominations (2015). Different religion may have different dogma about sex. Ludger H. Viefhues-Bailey wrote sex was designed for becoming one as instructed in Genesis 2: 24 and referred to again in I Corinthians 6: 16 and Ephesians 5:31, because vibrator can interfere with your ability to learn to respond to him [sic] touch, we do not recommend the vibrator as the way to learn to be orgasmic (2012). Many people who do not believe in religion may not think in this way. Therefore, religion can be an important factor that result in our different opinion toward sexuality. 
Moreover, our attitude toward sex can result from our society. Because of society norms, sometimes we seems to link marriage and love too closely, and many Chinese think once two young people have sex, they should consider marriage. But in America, many people consider marriage and love separately. I had interview serval American students, they told me they will not consider marriage or build a relationship after sex. As I mentioned before, America is a country that pursue freedom so much. In Americans' family, most parents do not discipline their children as much as Chinese parents do. This could also result from "one child policy" in China. Which said "one couple (including legally adopted) after the birth of a child is no longer allowed give birth anymore child. Zhang et al said in "where do Chinese adolescents obtain knowledge of sex? Implications for sex education in China", Chinese parents are more conservative toward sexuality results from culture norms (2007). Chinese parents more likely to install some ideas about conservative sexuality to their children. 
Some people may mention sex education is the most important factor that caused Chinese and Americans have different attitude toward sex. They claim this point because sex education situation in two countries has difference and education is the way how people form their concept. While, I admit that sex education in China maybe not as widespread as in America. But in nowadays, the difference is reducing. According to Wikipedia, Chinese sex education have been developed since 2010, after the compulsory education biology textbooks are a lot of supplemental educational content, in many cities of the school has set up a "physical health class." While many sites have begun the development of education, like the shell Network's intellectual and so on. 
Conclusion 
Finally, as I mentioned before, there are many factors that could influence how we think about sex. Different kinds of sex education and how much we learned from sex education can influence Americans and Chinese' opinion toward sex differently, but sex education is not the crucial reason to determine why Americans and Chinese value sex differently. Thus sex education is not the fundamental reason to explain why Chinese and Americans have different opinion toward sex. 
Reference 
Fisher, Helen. (2010). Anatomy of Sex [Video Tape]. 
Huber, Valerie J. & Firmin, Michael W. (2014). A History of Sex Education in the United States since 1900. International Journal of Educational Reform, 23(1), 25-51. 
M. J. Heale, the Sixties in America; History, Politics and Protest, (Edinburgh University Press, 2001) pp. 13-14. 
Viefhues-Bailey, L. H. (2012). Holiness sex: conservative Christian sex practices as acts of sanctification. Journal of Men, Masculinities and Spirituality, 6(1), 7. 
Zhang, Liying. Li, Xiaoming. & Iqbal H. Shah. (2007). Where do Chinese adolescents obtain knowledge of sex? Implications for sex education in China. 
2 
IF SEX EDUCATION IS A CRUCIAL REASON 
Running head: IF SEX EDUCATION IS A CRUCIAL REASON 1 
