RETAIL DISCOUNTS PAPER 
The Negative Impact of Buy One, Get One Free Discount 
Introduction 
	Nowadays, more and more discount strategies are used by retailers to boost their sales. Among these new innovated strategies, there is one special marketing technique called BOGOF, or commonly known as "buy one, get one free". For example, after seeing buy one, get one free deals, customers may decide to purchase something they may not actually need. Experiments have shown that BOGOF is used very effectively and attracts to more customers than others like 50% off because of the magic word "free". However, there have been much debate recently about whether BOGOF should be scrapped or supported. Many people think that BOGOF helps them to save money every week. And for those who plan their weekly shopping to the last penny, BOGOF may be the only chance for them to buy expensive products. However, BOGOF has also received a lot of negative publicity recently such as food waste. In my opinion, BOGOF should be scrapped because of its negative impact on society and should be replaced by other promotional tools like 50% off. 
Body	 
Nowadays, food waste has become a huge issue all over the world, and supermarkets and retailers are being blamed for this. One of the reason is that they are convincing customers to purchase items that under the promotion of BOGOF. They lure customers by offering them something which they may not necessarily need. Originally, when people come to the supermarkets, they always have a general idea about the quantity of food they need. They also know what types of food they like and what can be stored for a long time. The only thing they do that relates to discounts is that they may compare the price and quality of different brands. However, when BOGOF discounts emerge, people become crazy and buy much more foods than they actually need. Research by Grewal, D. et al(2011) shows that in this sort of situation, the human brain is excited by the word "free" and stops considering something else. Thus, people forget to think about the quantity of food they need or excus over-purchasing by saying "it can be stored for a long time". As a result, customers consume extra foods and throw some of them away. A report by the House of Lords European Union committee (2014) states that 15 million tons of food are dumped each year in the UK alone. And globally, consumers in industrialized nations waste up to 222 million tons of foods a year, which is equivalent to nearly the entire level of net food production of sub-Saharan Africa. This waste could also lead to serious economic and environmental implications. 
	Moreover, BOGOF discounts could lead to cheating in retail markets. In addition to the BOGOF made on foods, retailers also offer BOGOF in many other products such as clothes and electronics. Sometimes they use BOGOF almost the same way as they do foods, buy one get one free. However, because most people do not need two coats that are totally the same or two printers at home, the one that "get free" is substituted by another style of coat or a mouse. Obviously, retailers will not offer customers something that sells very good free of charge. Instead, they offer products that are out of date or even something contains defect. For example, there are promotions in shopping mall like "buy one coat, get another free". For some retailers, they use this strategy to clear the storage, but for some others, it is a good way to clear defect products. Grewal, D. et al (1998) state that for this type of discount (BOGOF), people always look at the normal priced item very carefully and only take a quick glance of the one that is free. Thus, people may get the defected item without notice. In addition, the free item may not have the same quality guarantee or refund policy as the normal priced one so that it is hard for customers to defend their rights. 
	In many situations, although some people benefit from BOGOF discount, others may have to pay a higher price if they do not need the one free. For example, retailers like Bestbuy usually offer a gift such as a mouse, a keyboard or headphones if we purchase the a computer. However, many of us already have these products or do not like the one that Bestbuy offers. According Balachander, S. et al (2010), most retailers already include the total price of second one or part of it into the first, normal priced one. Thus, the second one is not something totally free but something we already pay for." Thus, if we do not need the second item, it looks like we get the first one at a higher price than usual. And we also lose the choice to buy the first product without the BOGOF discount: therefore it looks like second one is not totally "free". 
	From these details and facts, we can see the huge negative impacts of buy one, get one free discounts. In order to prevent this tragedy, governments and retailers could act quickly to get rid of the BOGOF and replace it by some other types of discounts, like 50% off. Also, there should be more regulations about retail discounts to ensure the interests of the general public. For those people who have low income, offering 50% off discounts could also provide the opportunity to get what they want at a much lower price. They get the discounts and do not have to buy same item twice. All in all, I believe that scraping the BOGOF could have an overall positive impact on society. 
