Proliferation of Hindi Cinema-unfolding many new leaves 
There is more to Indian Cinema than just the contemporary Bollywood's success. Its roots are embedded way back that now it is called the old school Bollywood. Even though the present Hindi film industry has evolved in many ways, it has taken a lot of tip-offs from the old Hindi industry. In times of Raj Kapoor around the 90s, Indian Hindi cinema had quite some bit of its international following. However, the present Hindi film industry has not only survived since then but has, in fact thrived over the last century portraying the remarkable presence it made both domestically and globally. Hindi cinema became global making complex changes in all the aspects of cinema- aesthetics, production, plot and consumption of Hindi films. Coming from a three-generation film fraternity, I would like to explore the changes Bollywood adapted to since the old school Bollywood's transformation. 
Firstly, old school Bollywood's movies made in black and white and the movie posters where painted with free hand. While currently, new Hindi movies are made in color incorporating the advanced technology and the movie postures are digital motion pictures that are designed with high-ending equipment. Formerly, Hindi movies where not made with heavy budgets and hence most song locations would be shot in a closed studio with certain scenic wallpapers. Nonetheless, present movies are shot in panoramic locations in abroad and most movies are made with high budgets. For instance, the movie Bahubali was made in many languages on a budget of eighteen million and said to have grossed over eighty-eight million dollars worldwide. It became the highest grossing film within India and the third highest Indian film globally. 
Secondly, I would like to focus on the specific theme that Bollywood has maintained since its evolution and not planned to change. The idea of Hindi films being song-dance duets and family drama musicals has not changed at all. Previously as well, the main target of Hindi films was to connect the plot of the movies with the audiences and hence most of the movies were based on usual family dramas. Presently, there are many new movies that came up with good scripts that focus on global and national issues. For instance, the movie Kanchi focuses on sex trafficking in Bombay, and Masaan, centers on the rigid Indian caste system. Though the above-mentioned movie is different from a usual Hindi film, the central theme of Masaan hits the feelings of audience where they can connect with the female protagonist facing problems. Therefore, the proliferation of Bollywood has not affected the targets and themes of a standard Hindi film. 
Lastly, Hindi film industry has unfolded a very progressive change than what it used to be in the last decade. It has constructed a league of its own, despite the modifications it had to go through from the old school film industry. A recent comparative study of current and past Bollywood has suggested many changes that Bollywood had to undergo. As such as, initially, same and repeated stories were shown with dancing styles being fixed and particular. While, now the narrative technique is complex and many stories are experimented with many actors having different action and dance styles. This kind of change in the presentation of a Hindi film has affected the audience as well as the industry in good light. Regardless, though the drama factor has been constant, each and every character in current Hindi films is portrayed with heroic importance. All in all, the globalization of Hindi cinema is on the rise with unimaginable and exclusive movies on the tray. 
