Huiqian He (Toshi) 
Draft#3 
		 Dec 9, 2015 
One Should Hold His Own Idea 
As the society fastly develops, a thought becomes more and more acceptable among people, which is called mainstream. Following the crowd seems very reasonable because it is much easier to agree than disagree. As a result, there is a fierce debate on whether one should hold his own idea especially when he is in a minority. Many people suppose that when one holds different ideas from the mainstream thinking, he or she might be a strange person and even look like discordant. These ideas will challenge the widely accepted ideas, which might reduce the efficiency of a project or work sometimes. However, I strongly believe that one should support their own thoughts even if they are not recognized by public. There are numerous reasons why I hold my opinion, and I would explore a few primary ones here. 
First and foremost, holding one's different ideas will absolutely provide more ideas and rich solutions of some problems. For example, I learned from the theory of functional perspective on group decision making in my communication class that a group which came up with more ideas could better avoid the challenges that might happen in the process. There is a study descried in the book about two groups. Students in these two groups should all live in an isolated island without any help. The green group made a widely accepted way to schedule and seek food, while some students in the blue group put forward that living in the island was quite different from daily life, so they established four different plans in case of unexpected events and maladaptation. As a result, the blue group maximize to save the resource, and the efficiency of their life and learning had improved. The most important is that everyone enjoyed this trip in this island. It is obvious that they made a big succeed living in the island (Hirokawa & Gouran, 1993). On the other hand, as one of my interviewers, <name> said that there was no such thing like the only truth, not to mention the misunderstandings and misreading. He suggested that without variety of different ideas in different angles as well as the aspects of some events, people cannot have colorful history and even the development of the society. He took the contending in Chun and Qiu Period in ancient China as the example. At that time, each genre held its own governing philosophy, none of which was the absolutely correct theory. They all had their own irreplaceable advantages. As a result, the culture and political ideas developed rapidly at that time. Therefore, invention needs doubts and different ideas. Otherwise, human's development can only be halted (<name>, personal communication, October 8, 2015). 
Second, holding one's own ideas helps a person achieve his unique success. The best example is Van Gogh. It is widely acknowledged that Van Gogh's works were treasures of arts in history. Most people learned that Van Gogh's painting style belongs to post impressionism. However, seldom people could really understand what he was painting under the influence of long-term realist works. As Siegal (2014) said in his article "This enduring image of van Gogh -- as an isolated genius who expressed his emotions directly through paint and paid the ultimate price for his passion -- has helped make him one of the world's most popular artists" (p. C1). It can be said that it is his persistence which makes him successful and cannot be substituted. In other words, if he gave up and compromise on the popular painting style at that time, he might be a good painter and accepted by others. However, he could never create a new era of post impressionism, neither could he have a heroic life. Besides, there is also another famous person totally changed the oppressed and invaded China of that time, Sun Yat-sen. How could he do that? He clearly saw the situation of China that time, and he suggested that different parties should join together to resist foreign invasion, which seemed quite dangerous because we did have partisanship at that time. But he insisted, so he succeeded. 
The third reason is that one's different ideas can change social climate flattery and create a harmonious and honest society. There is a famous experiment in society. The investigator made a project on ten people by random selection. They wanted to find out whether people prefer to consider by themselves or they just blindly biased against the majority. And the staff asked six of these ten people gave wrong answers in advance. During the examination, they showed these ten people some amount of easy-answered questions. Surprisingly, because of these six out of ten people show the majority answer, though which were wrong answers, the rest of them invariably gave wrong answers too. It is a really common situation in our daily life. So the only thing we could do to change the ethos is to have our own ideas. In addition, as BBC, a news channel pointed out when the supervisor puts forward a motion, seldom people would express disagree arguments for the reason that they believe when they meet the ideas of the supervisor, they may leave a good impression on him. If the situation continues, the company will be run under the dictatorial rule, and teamwork will lose its meanings. What's more, as the news said, "the democracy becomes impossible to implement," ("What does Xi," 2015). 
Though some people may argue that one's own ideas may not be right all the time, and it is hard and painful to live under the questioning and opposition, it is not always an easy thing to judge whether the opinion is right or not. For instance, Copernicus came up with the model of heliocentrism. But at that time, people all trusted the idea that the earth is the center of universe. Copernicus hold his idea and he was burned at Rome Fiori. Though now we human beings could see that even the sun is not the central of cosmos, it is Copernicus's upholding for the truth that promotes a huge step for human's understanding of the universe. 
To draw a conclusion, based on the reasons I discussed above, one should hold his own ideas to provide more ideas and rich solutions of some problems, achieve his success as well as to change the social climate flattery, and to create a harmonious and honest society. Though it may be a challenging process, and people may feel upset because of other's doubts, one should never give up the spirit of seeking for truth and own ideas. 
