Argumentative paper, Draft 1 
2016/04/02 
The difference between human beings and social animals in social psychological field 
Background 
	How do human beings differentiate from other animals? There are many answers for this question from different academic perspectives. However, in social psychological field, we use the term cultural animals to differentiate human beings from the rest of other animals. According to Baumeister and Bushman (2016), there are three distinguishable traits human beings have: shared belief, social norms and senses of self. 
Block 1 
Shared Belief 
	First of all, Baumeister and Bushman (2016) defined shared belief as one of the unique characteristic cultural animals have. By shared belief, they mean the common things a group of people have, which can be based on everything, such as gender, race and nationality. For example, people who share the same nationality always speak the same language. Females and males have different character and hobbies. People from difference race have different life style. As you may notice now, the belief Baumeister and Bushman are talking about is not common understanding of belief. The belief in social psychological field has wider range of definition: not only faith, but also custom. In contrast, the difference between social animals just exists because of biology, genes and evolution. Nature selects the trait that best helps a spiece survive and have offspring, which is completely different compared to human beings. 
Social Norms 
	Secondly, social norms are also used to differentiate human beings from social animals. Baumeister and Bushman stated, this descriptive social norm is what guides people's behavior. It exists in daily life in form of rules, laws, or even authority request. People need to follow these norms in order to get social acceptance. Otherwise, they may be excluded or isolated. Sometimes the situation may be even worse when people violate laws: they will be put in jails to stay away from others. To avoid these kinds of punishment, depriving opportunity to get in touch with other human beings, people will normally follow the social norms. 
Sense of Self 
Language 
