The Success of Little Apple: Secrets Behind Popular Songs 
Purdue University 
Abstract 
This research paper discusses the reasons why "Little Apple," a Chinese song, was the most popular song in China in 2014. Although music structure and dance are important to its success, technology, including predictive ones and social media, contributes most. In short, the research can help readers better understand how to create a popular song and make it become successful with support from social media. 
Key words: "Little Apple," catchy music, social media, promotion. 
The Success of Little Apple: Secrets Behind Popular Songs 
	If you spend any time in China, you cannot help but hear a song called "Little Apple," sung by the Chopsticks Brothers, which became the most popular song of 2014 in China. It won many prizes like "the Favorite Music in China" in MAMA, Mnet Asian Music Awards, and the 'Tripod' Award in 2014 and its success in China can be compared with "Gangnam Style" in Asia and USA in 2012 (People's Daily, 2014) (YNet, 2014). In some ways, "Little Apple" is a significant example of modern popular music; therefore, people who are unfamiliar with the song can also know how songs around them become popular. Analyzing the success of this song can help more people learn more about China and the modern music market. Considering the different aspects of its success, some people think this song's own musical value, including its structure and video, contributes the most. However, I stand on the opposite side: technology is the most significant factor that causing the song to spread through Chinese society. 
	Before the market promoting the music, "Little Apple" was first created with technology that helped make it become a hit song. In the article "Shazam Effect," Thompson (2014) claims that technology like Shazam, which turns music into a piece of data to analyze the modern music market, is also an important feature in modern music industry because record companies can predict the popularity of songs and advertise through it. Depending on the system, music producers can compose music, imitating the same melody with hit songs. It was also a process to create "Little Apple." As a member in the promotion team of this song said, "Little Apple" was created to attract people as a theme song of the movie, "Old boys: The Way of The Dragon," and help increase the movie sales (Dongfangjinbao Newspaper, 2014). 
	With the help of this technology, viral marketing works more effectively to get the music noticed because of the extensive use of Internet, TV, and other media methods. The marketing team of "Little Apple" worked professionally on promoting the song. They chose an appropriate time to publish the song, May 29th, 2014. This day was between 2014 FIFA World Cup and the graduation of students from high school to college. During this time, people always focused on the Internet to gain the latest information about these two important events so they would have interest in the song when they were online. Also, mass media has various channels to promote the song, such as Youku, Weibo, Wechat, which are the most important entertainment websites in China. Youku, as the first website publishing "Little Apple," put the song and relating videos on the front page to attract people. Appropriate time and vehicles to promote music is a significant factor in viral marketing. 
	Another characteristic of viral marketing is that the marketing campaigns use pre-existing social networks to increase brand awareness through self-replicating viral techniques (Xinhua Daily, 2015). It can be one of the most effective ways of getting the music noticed. Maggie Chiang, a mass communication student in Purdue University, mentioned the importance of the recommendation from famous people (personal communication, Nov 2nd, 2015). On Weibo, famous users, including actors and singers, with millions of followers also recommended "Little Apple" and helped the topic of the song to the top of hot topics list. Thousands of people can be viewing these celebrities' content within hours of sending out a viral piece. Viral marketing is a good way for delivering music message because of how uses browse the web. The survey I did on October, 2015, showed that 31 out of 89 Chinese people first heard "Little Apple" on the street, 34 out of 89 people first heard the song from entertainment websites and 24 people were recommended to listen the song by their family or friends. This survey can be an effective evidence to support the importance of social networks. 
	Among various vehicles, square dance is one of the most important reason for the popularity. Square dance is a social phenomenon in China because many middle-aged women do this for exercise. Walking in the parks on afternoon, you can easily find these women dance with high tempo music like "Little Apple." This music volume is always high so even though you are on the other side of the road, you can still hear the music from the park. Therefore, the increasing frequency of listening this song because of square dance made people remember this song. 
	The marketing team also took advantage of the singer's popularity. The Chopsticks Brothers once published two popular songs, "Old Boys" and "Father," and got a good reputation. For "Little Apple," the team focused on people after 1990s because these people are the most important group for marketing (Livingstone & Bober, 2004). Nowadays, young people love to share on the Internet and communicate with their family and friends, which means they are the essential part for viral network. According to a national survey by the UK Children Go Online project, the youth are the most active participants among all groups. Similarly, as Liikkanen (2011) acknowledged, young people, who are the target customer of music market and usually contact with media everyday, experiences involuntary musical imagery (INMI) more than the old. The music companies catch this opportunity and take advantage from the mass media, like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. They create songs that young people prefer and spread them through the media. The marketing team seized this opportunity so they edited the titles of news about "Little Apple" to be what the young prefer, like "China ditty 'Little Apple' catches on" and created different kinds of parody of this song to get notice. 
	Even though the effort of viral market to "Little Apple " cannot be ignored, conversely, there are still some people think the music itself contributes most to its success. First of all, "Little Apple" attracted people's attention by its simple music structure and repeating melody. This song and other catchy songs have a simple structure that the melodies of all sections in the music are the same or similar (Fang, 2014). In other words, repeating the same melody in the song makes the audience have a strong impression in the melody. On the other hand, as <name> (personal communication, Nov 2nd, 2015) mentioned, the lyrics of the song are simple, too. For example, the chorus always repeats "you are my little, little apple." She thought this lyric makes the audience remember the song. The musical dance of Little Apple became the most popular dance during 2014 in China. One significant phenomenon of its popularity was that almost every square dance in China imitated its dance style. 
	These evidences support the idea that music itself and its dance is the most important factor that why "Little Apple" was the most popular song in China in 2014. However, considering from broader side, social media should be the most essential part of promotion because without it, the music company cannot predict whether the song can be popular or not. Also, even if the song has high artistic value, it cannot be known by people in the country without social media. Taking some catchy songs, like Good Boy, as an example. Although those songs have repeated lyrics and catchy melody, they were not as successful as "Little Apple" because the technology they use are not effective. Therefore, musical structure is not the main point. The technology used to promote should be the most important part for the success of "Little Apple." 
	To sum up, "Little Apple" is indeed a hot trend in China last year. Its success is inseparable with the simple music structure and professional marketing team. Of the influencing factors, technology including social media and marketing is the most significant one to help the song succeed. It helps the company predict the success of "Little Apple" and create the song with matched singers. Also, marketing the song appropriately to the target market helps it successful with least effort. Although the media plays an important role in today's music market, lots of popular songs become popular quickly but with short longevity. The society need to encourage musical creativity. These music cannot be the main trend so creating music with higher artistic value is quite important. 
