	Does Chinglish have negative impacts on college students' English writing?
"I don't understand what you mean here, this is so Chinglish." When I was at high school, our foreign writing teacher always said that to us for our writing assignment. I believe sometimes I use Chinglish, which is defined as a variety of English used by speakers of Chinese and incorporating some Chinese vocabulary or construction, unconsciously even though I am a college student right now and I believe many students who are studying abroad have the same issue, too. The issue is that does Chinglish really have negative influence on college students' English writing? When more and more Chinese students begin to explore the world beyond the sea, using English as a tool to connect people all over the world, they start to notice and pay more attention about this issue. "China English" has been being debated more than 20 years and it was first raised in 1980 by Ge (1983), a famous Chinese linguist and lexicographer (Cui, 2006; Kirkpatrick & Xu, 2002). Some people think it is totally acceptable as a brand new variety of English. Some people think its negative transfer effects people's daily life.
Most of the students think that Chinglish is wrong and it should be corrected because it has huge negative impact on them. When they are writing by using Chinglish unconsciously, they might write wrong sentences or words that will mislead other people. Further more, it will affect student's grade, academic life and social life. There are three aspects that I think have the most negative transfers of Chinglish. First of all, lack of grammaticality of Chinglish is considered as the biggest problem that impacts students' English writing. Kirkpatrick (2002) says that one prominent characteristic of Chinese is being isolated, while English is inflectional. I think that is why the grammar systems of Chinese and English are so different, especially in the aspect of verb tense. Jianhua (2007) states that there is no inflectional change in Chinese verbs, because what Chinese concerns with is whether an action is performed or continuous, while tense is an indispensable part of English verbs. Consequently, Chinese students unavoidably make errors concerning tense and sometimes mislead people to wrong directions of the original meaning. Tense sometimes can cause huge problems.
Subsequently, sentences structures cause negative impact to students writing, too. Pinkham (2000) says" English is a language based on verbs. It is simple, concise, vigorous and, above all, clear. Chinglish is a language based on nouns - vague, general, abstract nouns. It is complicated, long-winded, ponderous, and obscure." The basic word order of English is SVO and the structure is rigid, while Jiahua (2007) states that Chinese has SOV and SVO as its basic word orders because its basic word orders to some degree are determined by pragmatic and semantic factors rather than grammatical ones. Therefore, Students sometimes make sentences, which may be well-formed according to Chinese word order but never appears in English, and this cause misunderstanding or misleading of others.
Ultimately, semantic differences between Chinese and English can cause negative transfer of Chinglish. Many words are unique in some language and they cannot be translated properly into some other language. There are also some words having the exactly same meaning between two languages but people use them in different ways. Chinese students sometimes unconsciously use some words that might only exist in Chinese or have totally different meanings in English, which might cause misleading. Xiaoru (2009) discovers that the choice of pronoun-subject or non-pronoun-subject between Chinese and English will lead to negative transfer, which will make the translation of subject an improper one. For example, Chinese people always think that human being and nature are mingled together whereas western people believe they are separated and they intend to express things from an object view and are used to taking non-pronoun such as things or abstract concept as the subject.
Nevertheless, some people hold different opinions about the transfer of Chinglish. They think Chinglish is totally acceptable to be used and language transfer seems more likely to help than to interfere. Throughout an interview with <name> an English composition instructor at Purdue, she states that not only British English and American English are the only standard Englishes, Chinglish and many other Englishes that form around the world should be accepted to be English. She also thinks that the classification of English, which only accept British and American English as the only Standard Englishes, is totally wrong. Henry (2010) states that Chinglish is just a label that judges about the appropriateness of a speaker's linguistic production from the perspective of an authoritative (and authorized) expert.
Chinglish as a language has been debated for a long time. As <name> said, Chinglish should not be judge and should be accepted in some ways. I agree with that Chinglish should not be judge, however, the mistakes of Chinglish and its negative transfers should not be neglected. As I see, Chinglish is a tool for Chinese people to communicate with other people all over the world. It is not acceptable if other people don't understand it or always misunderstand it. In addition, Chinglish as a combination of Chinese and English, what it represent is China and Chinese culture, so I think it is totally necessary to be corrected, especially the students that study abroad.
In conclusion, I think the negative influence of Chinglish is definitely much more than its positive one. In academic aspect, it has negative influences to students' writing, which including grammatical mistakes, syntactical disorder, and semantic mistakes. These are just the tips of the iceberg. There are and will be more questions and negative influence if Chinglish do not get people's attention and deteriorate further.
Reference
Pinkham, J. (2000). The translator's guide to Chinglish. Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.
Kirkpatrick, A., & Xu, Z. (2002). Chinese pragmatic norms and 'China English'. World English, 21(2), 269-279.
Wang X. (2009). Exploring the negative transfer on English learning. Asian social science July. 2007, 5(2)
Wang, X. (2009). Exploring the negative transfer on English learning. Asian Social Science, 5(7), 138.
Li, J. (2007). Negative language transfer in College English Writing by Chinese Students: Problems and Strategies. CELEA Journal. 2007, 30(2)
Henry, E. S. (2010). Interpretations of "Chinglish": native speakers language learners and the enregisterment of a stigmatized code. Language in Society. 39(05), 669-688.
