Effects and problems of consuming energy drink among college students 
P5D3 
Engl 106i 
College students are almost always busy and tired with their homework and exams. Therefore this reducing their sleep is inevitable. However staying up all night with only their own power of concentration is very difficult and also inefficient. So, students tried various methods to wake themselves up and to concentrate on their work through activities such as drinking coffee or tea, doing a little exercise, and taking a cold water shower. But when the first energy drink came out in 1997, majority of college students used it more than any other method they used before. Soon, college students used energy drinks in various situations of their daily life such as using it while partying to mix it with alcohol. And it was not long before energy drink to become one of the icon that represent the young generation. 
	Many companies that make energy drink often advertise it as 'energy booster' that energize college students' body and help them to concentrate. Also, energy drink companies say that the ingredients contained in energy drink such as vitamin A, and vitamin C is helpful for college students' body. However, when it comes to my opinion about this topic, I assume that it is not true that consuming energy drink only has positive effects to college students' body as it is advertised. 
	First of all, overdosing on the caffeine contained in energy drink has negative effects and causes serious health problems. Caffeine, one of the ingredients in energy drink, is a type of stimulant drug that can provide mental and physical stimulation which is the main reason why people consume energy drink. According to research conducted by C. Alford (2000) taking proper amount of it can actually improve the mental performance and physical performance including choice reaction time, concentration, memorizing, aerobic endurance, and anaerobic performance significantly. However, overdosing on caffeine obviously has negative effects to students' body and causes serious health problems. For example, anxiety, insomnia, and nausea are some of the health problems caused by overdosing caffeine. Those problems are painful by just having it. But, for college students those problems are even more distracting and stressful because those can effect student's grade. Moreover, according to Ibrahim (2014) caffeine in energy drink increases urine output acutely therefore leads to dehydration, and these two (dehydration and frequent urination) increase the risk of kidney failure. Also it increases the heart rate and blood pressure and makes the heart rhythm irregular which significantly increase the risk of heart attack. To summarize, consuming caffeine in energy drink have both positive and negative effects but health problems caused by overdosing caffeine should not be ignored. 
	Secondly, sugar and other sweeteners contained in energy drink increases the possibility of college students getting obesity. According to J. Klineman (2008) average sugar content in energy drink is about 31 g per 8 oz. (240ml) and average calories is 250 calories. This does not sound like a lot by itself but as you may know, college students in America drink soft drink which contains a lot of sugars and other sweeteners. From my own experience a soft drink is consumed daily. So, college students in America already has high possibility of getting obesity, but by drinking energy drink they are risking even more. 
	Furthermore, according to a research conducted by Malinauskas (2007) in East Carolina University, 54 percent of college students answered that they mixed energy drink with alcohol and they drink at least for cans of energy drink while partying. Comparing to the maximum amount of caffeine that a person can take, which is about 2 cans of energy drink (500mg), that is quite a lot. There is some research papers claiming that college students consuming mixed beverages of alcohol and energy drink can seriously damage their body. It argues that drinking those mixed beverages can cause serious dehydration, longer hangover, high alcohol intoxication level and higher risk of getting heart attack. However, when I asked my interviewee question about this problems, he said that there is still debates going on over this topic and he cannot tell if all of those are scientifically true. 
	In conclusion, I recommend that college student should consume energy drinks sparingly for several reasons. Firstly, overdosing caffeine can cause serious health problems such as kidney failure and heart attack, and also anxiety and insomnia will make college student stressful and distracted. Next, large amount of sugar and other sweeteners in energy drink increase the risk of getting obesity. There are still some unproven fact about mixed beverage of alcohol and energy drink but we can't deny that drinking energy drinks damages our health. Therefore, I insist that energy drink consumption among college student should be reduced. 
Reference page 
C. Alford, H. Cox & R. Wescott (May 25, 2000). The effects of red bull energy drink on human performance and mood. University of the West England. Retrieved from http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs007260170021 
N. Ibrahim & R. Iftikhar (Nov 6, 2014). Energy drinks: getting wings but at what health cost? Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4320741/ 
B. Malinauskas, V. Aeby, R. Overton, T. Aeby, & K. Heidal (2007). A survey of energy drink consumption patterns among college students. East Carolina University. Retrieved from http://www.nutritionj.com/content/6/1/35 
V. Lohsoonthorn, H. Khidir, G. Casillas, S. Lertmaharit, M. Tadesse, W. Pensuksan, . . . M. Williams, (2013). Sleep quality and sleep patterns in relation to consumption of energy drinks, caffeinated beverages and other stimulants among Thai college students. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3621002/ 
Claire O'Brien, M. (Mar 29, 2008). Caffeinated Cocktails: Energy Drink Consumption, High-risk Drinking, and Alcohol-related Consequences among College Students. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2008.00085.x/full 
J. Klineman (Apr 30, 2008). Little competition: Energy shots aim for big profits. Retrieved from http://www.bevnet.com/news/2008/4-30-2008-energy_shots.asp
