How Does Advertisement Photography Affects Consumer Choice? 
The twenty-first is an informational century. The great increase of internet shopping and digital use means that people are encountering more and more advertisements. Most advertisements have pictures with them. So what is the relationship between advertisement photography and advertisement? It's obvious that it increases the selling number of the product, but how? Why do they have some kind of "magic" that people cannot stop from buying them? Nowadays, people cannot fully understand what the difference is between advertisement photography and other types of photography. Also, people cannot determine the effects that advertisement and advertisement photography have. Therefore, over budget, buying things that people don't really need will happen to these people. However, if people knows the relationship between advertisement and the product, they will be able to control their habit of shopping. 
Unlike other types of photography which just need several shots and get the picture they want; ad photos often need to meet the requirements of the customer. In order to meet the requirements, photographers need to get the product prepared and make it looks exactly the way they want. For example, the ice-cream have to be on the hot cake, or the sausage have to look shinny without oil on the plate. In order to meet the requirements, photographers need to get the product prepared and make it looks exactly the way they want. In the interview of prof <name> , a hamburger advertisement was mentioned. He said that people might think it's a very easy task since you just need a picture of a burger meal. However, it's wrong. Because a good advertisement photograph needs a very long time of preparation. First they would buy 10-15 patties and 10 breads, 5 tomatoes, 5 big pieces of lattes, a big piece of cheese. After that, they design the burger, they will make the burger the exact perfect way they wanted it to be. So, photographer have to make sure the arrangement is nice for the consumers to see what is in the burger. For example, a bacon cheeseburger, if the bacon's color is almost the same with the tomatoes, consumers might assume there's no bacon there, therefore, photographers have to make the bacon either stretch out more or make the bacon fold more layers to make sure consumers notice the bacon (Alfred Stieglitz 2). Before taking the shot, they cool down the meat first and then put the tomato and lattes on in order to keep them look fresh. They would also paint the bread and meat in oil so that it looks shiny. After all those things are done, they will take the shot( <name> 3). Therefore, most of the things that was highlight or shows in the advertisement photography are fake things made up by the photographer. 
All photography is persuasive and has a point of view. The difference between advertisement photography and other types of photography is that ad photos are making fake things real while other types, for example news photography, are recording the information. This is why people thought they are the same or not much difference, because they all look real. So how do people see the difference between enormous pictures people see every day? We have to know how was ad photos made. Let's check an ad video of Kroger, an organic food company. It was about a family having their organic dinner, however, the main focus of the ad is not the food, but the family. The family looks very happy, everyone is smiling and laughing. This will make people have a very strong feeling that their family will be that happy if they have those organic foods. It sounds ridiculous, but deep inside the consumers' mind, that's what you will feel and that is how advertisement photography make fake things real. It will be easier to understand if we think in a different way. We suggest that you have a picture of a nice looking bacon cheeseburger, and you saw somebody with a quarter pond beef burger that looks just like the normal burgers which is not that nice, which one would you choose? Probably the cheeseburger although the beef burger is healthier and have more nutritious. This is the power of advertisement photography. 
So, how does advertisement photography attract or persuade consumers? We all know that advertisement is basically providing information of the product, however, it's not that simple. There are two kinds of relationships. The first one is the balance between information, persuading, and entertaining. The second is the relationship between visual and verbal information. But before that, the important thing of advertisement strategy is that they will have different content with different targets. Advertisers will target specific type or kinds of people or areas as their customers. After that, they will consider what may attract them and what is their interests. For example, car advertisements, brands like Subaru and Ford will more likely to be seen in states like Montana. Because the temperature there are pretty low and winter covers half of the year. Those cars have a better performance in snowy days and have a relatively lower price to adapt the dispirited economy in those states. 
Unlike other types of photograph, advertisement photography has to contain all three parts and need a good balance between them. For example, a newspaper photograph, what it needs is only provide the exact information, it does not need to persuade anyone, and as a serious report, it cannot have the entertaining part. However, giving an example of car advertisement photography, you will see the difference. An advertisement of a car will often come with text in the pictures, because you cannot see the parameters directly from the picture. That's the information part. And they will make the car look shinning and beautiful which will make you have the impulsion to buy the car. That's the persuading part. Finally, advertisers will put a car model besides the car or put a happy family in the car, which is the entertaining part. These three parts needs to be balanced because if either part is too much, people will probably get bored by the long paragraph of texts or think the car is not that good( <name> ). 
The balance between visual and verbal parts in advertisements are also important. This is more about the advertisement strategies. The results of this study and the Mitchell and Olson (1981) study indicate that the visual elements of advertisements may affect brand attitudes in at least two ways. First, individuals may form inferences about the advertised brand based on the visual information presented. These inferences may result in the formation or change for example, In the Mitchell and Olson study, for instance, the photograph of a sunset was found to create beliefs that the advertised facial tissue brand came in more attractive colors. Secondly, if the visual element is positively or negatively evaluated, it may have an effect on brand attitudes that operates through attitude toward the advertisement (Andrew,A, Mitchell 18). Therefore, balancing the visual and verbal part is very important for advertisements to attract and persuade consumers and provide enough information for the consumers. 
For different kinds of people, advertisers also classify their customers by literacy level. Literacy level will affect their opinion when buying products. Research of Jae, Haeran shows that low-literacy consumers rely heavily on pictorial information when making market-based decisions; they also do attempt to read relevant information. "When the advertisement picture and text are aligned, so too should be the conclusions low-literacy consumers draw." We ask what happens when the pictures and accompanying text are incongruent. Results of an experiment indicate that low-literacy consumers misinterpreted an advertisement with text-picture incongruity more regularly than did high-literacy consumers. We can still use the car advertisement as an example, we often see things more than just the car for example texts about the stat of the car or other sentences other than the picture of the car, because only adults have the need of a car, and adults, have a relatively high-literacy level than the young. Another example is the kids' restaurant. Their advertisements will appear with beautiful images that can attract kids, which have a relatively low-literacy level. However, the price will also appear and will come with some explanations because the parents are taking the kids there, they will need more verbal information to determine if they want to go there (Jae, Haeran, Devon S. Delvecchio, and Deborah Cowles 14). 
Let's get a look at a specific example of kids' food advertisement. Television food advertisement is the kind of advertisement children more likely to be seen. And those advertisements are very successful which had lead many children to overweight or unhealthy lifestyles, because most of them are fast food advertisements. There are mainly four reasons why children are attracted. Almost four in five children responded that 'tastiness of advertised food product' was the topmost attraction to like a food advertisement. More than 50% of children said they prefer advertised foods because it is said to be health. Techniques used by food advertisers in TV commercials such as product endorsements, offering free gifts and using a storyline were reported to caught children's attention. However, just 25% of children reported an interest in elements of colorful visuals and special effects(See Hoe Ng, Bridget Kelly 2015). This example shows that children cares more about the things that comes together with the product other than the product itself. 
So how do we prevent being persuade by the advertisement photography and buy things we don't really need? First of all, go to the federal trade commission for help if cheating and nonreal things are seen in the advertisements. The FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection stops unfair, deceptive and fraudulent business practices by collecting complaints and conducting investigations, suing companies and people that break the law, developing rules to maintain a fair marketplace, and educating consumers and businesses about their rights and responsibilities.(FTC) The FTC also have some advises for advertisers and the consumers. Under the law, claims in advertisements must be truthful, cannot be deceptive or unfair, and must be evidence-based. For some specialized products or services, additional rules may apply(ftc). For consumers, being sane is the most important thing when consuming. Think about the strategies that advertisers are using. Figure out whether if you are their target or not. And the last thing, ask yourself the simple question, do I really need this thing? And you will be able to have a great experience of shopping. 
