29 November 2015 
Research Paper on Canine Hip Dysplasia 
As more pets are brought to people's daily life, Canine Hip Dysplasia(C.H.D.) draws more attention to those who own pets. I chose C.H.D as my topic because I care about the welfare of dogs and want to help the owners to keep their pets healthy. To the top of my knowledge, I think C.H.D can be inferred by observation and be diagnosed by examination. According to the severity, C.H.D is divided into different levels. I believe 
C.H.D. can be prevented but not cured ones it happens. In this research, I will present 
C.H.D. from different aspect: diagnosis, prevention and treatment. 
As I mentioned, C.H.D can be divided into different severity levels. However, some people think it is hard to differentiate the severity from level to level. Actually, there is a principle to follow for differentiating the levels. There are five levels for hip joint: a1 a2 a3 a4 a5. C.H.D. level is based on the angle in the joint. When we deal with the X- rays, 
we connect the center point of two caput and form a line. Then we connect the center point of caput to the edge of the pelvis and form a line. The angle formed by two lines is the reference for determining levels. When the angle is lager than 105 , it is a1 which means excellent. When the angle is between 105 and 100 , it belongs to a2, which is good. When the angle is 100 -95 , it is a3 which means fair. For all of this three are considered as acceptable which means does not have C.H.D. For a4, angle is between 95 and 90 which is poor. Any angle that is under 90 are considered as very severe. Both a4 and a5 are not acceptable and severe. 
For diagnosis, it can be separated into two stages. One is under 1-year-old; another is older than 1 year. Why? Because dogs cannot have the examination until 1year old. When dogs are under 1-year-old, we can figure out by collecting symptoms that are observed. When they are over 1-year-old and have the examination, their joint connection between pelvis and femur can be divided into different levels based on the angle mentioned above. 
Before examination, symptoms can be observed if a dog has C.H.D. Some people may think that there is no reason to believe a puppy has HD just from observation because some puppies just have it so slightly and it cannot be explicitly seen. However, with my own experience, I disagree with this point. I was working in a GSD kennel last summer holiday, so I had a chance to know more about C.H.D among German shepherd dogs in person. One day, our friend came to the kennel with his four GSD puppies. From observing the puppies he brought, we saw some abnormal behaviors. One of the puppies always wanted to sit and rest instead of playing when we freed him to lawn. At the same time, we saw the puppy always sat on one side of its hip instead of sitting probably. All these behaviors made us predict that the puppy might have C.H.D. Later, when it is 1year-old, it is diagnosed as C.H.D. This case shows that if a dog has C.H.D, there must be some small symptoms that we can observe. Also, my supervisor in the kennel tell me that all the puppies he has that later examined as C.H.D somehow show some symptoms more or less on their early age. From his experience, we can see that C.H.D can be inferred from observation as long as you are carefully enough to see the details. 
After examination, we should still pay attention to their hips because the dogs could develop C.H.D. even are 1-year-old. Some people don't believe so because they think after 1-year-old, dogs are mature so they will not develop C.H.D. afterwards. In spite of that, Dr. <name> holds different opinion. According to Dr. <name> there are some environmental conditions that affects how C.H.D. displays. The environmental conditions include how people raise the animal, how they fed it, and how they treat it. Making dogs jump down high place will make them get hip dysplasia even they did not have C.H.D before. Dr. <name> point reminds me of my own experience. When I worked in the kennel this summer, there was a female GSD. She behaved normally all the time until one day she came back from the forest. After running in the forest, she walked with a limp afterwards. Whatever we did, she cannot get back. This case definitely matches what Dr. <name> supposes. 
	Many people think if something is highly heritable, that means it is easier to control by gene selection. So, C.H.D can be controlled if we do not breed those dogs who have 
C.H.D. genes. There was a study on C.H.D for GSD in Switzerland suggested this point. 
In Switzerland, they had a small population in GSD. In this study, for any dog that had C.H.H, they did not use them for breeding. Over 20-year period, they decreased the incidence of C.H.D among the population in GSD. It went down from 30% to 15%. However, it is too ideal to realize in other countries all over the world. There are still many things to consider. On one hand, some dogs develop C.H.D. at their later ages, so they might already have been bred before they develop C.H.D. and pass their genes to their offspring. On the other hand, owners of those dogs who have C.H.D will lose a lot of money if they don't breed their dogs with C.H.D. Thus, they will still breed the dogs that carry bad genes. So, C.H.D will never be control by not breeding those carriers. 
	In my opinion, C.H.D cannot be cured once it developed. Although it is possible to relieve the pain for the dog with medicine, it cannot be cured completely. It is true that some dogs don't feel painful after taking medicine. However, it is not because they are cured by medicine. The medicine only relieves the pain by increase the fluency between the joint. The angle itself does not change at all. C.H.D will definitely recur. 
	To sum up, diagnosis for C.H.D can be conducted through examination after 1-yearold while some symptoms can be observed in an early age. There is no good way to prevent it genetically and cure it completely. To improve the current situation, more knowledge about C.H.D. should be spread to people to help improve the awareness, thus more environmental prevention can be done. 
