Whether college students should choose challenging courses, draft 3. 
04/23/2016 
Whether college students should choose challenging courses 
	 Most of the young adults above 18 years old are willing to accept college education (Institute of Education Sciences,2016) because better works with better salaries lead to better life which requires the employees gaining a higher degree of education (Education Corner,2016). However, when the young adults enter the college, they suddenly find everything becomes optional. Whether choosing a major full of challenging courses under the guidance of their dreams or taking easier courses and graduate with a major he or she doesn't really like then hurry to work becomes the first and most important problem they need to think about. This is a personal choice, but it is highly recommended that college students should choose challenging courses in their four-year study because finishing multiple challenging courses could make the students learn much more knowledge in the college and help them get a well-paid job in their career life (Nelson ,2010). And, taking challenging courses is also a way to prepare for graduate school. Not all the people want to enter the graduate school, however, when he really does want to do that, he would find how wisely it is taking challenging courses. 
	Taking challenging courses helps students learn more about his or her major or related techniques for solving problems in his major. So it just like sort of investment in the future. Some of the students put their 4-year college lives in finishing the coursework of the challenging courses they chose, while others put their energy in doing other things which they call it "Enjoying the teenage time" and put a little of their time in the schoolwork since the easier courses he chose doesn't require him to spend much of the time in studying, just as he plans. The two different choices lead to different future. For those who had spent most of his time wandering around, they would find a job eventually, but the payment may be average or even a little bit lower (Payscale, 2014), while those students who invested four years in challenging courses may find a job easily and well-paid because there are few applicants compete in this field (Skorton & Altschuler, 2012). So choosing challenging would make students' college lives harder, but the reward is as sweet as honey. 
	However, some of the students and their parents may have questions. First, students who take challenging courses may have the higher risk of failing the courses and have to stay in the college to get the remaining credits for graduation, which could cost the students another year and extra tuition for the credits. As the average tuition of college in the U.S.A is rising these years, some students may rather choose to graduate on time than to pursue a higher degree because of the tuition. Besides, the extra school year may delay the best time of the student to find a job (Personal communication, 2015). In the other hand, the difficulty of the courses may affect the GPA of the student, which become a defect on the resume. Furthermore, an imperfect GPA may also cause trouble when the student is applying to the graduate school. If the students can't get into the graduate school, how would there be a master degree or higher of the students that could help him find a better job after leaving the university? 
	Indeed, students may fail the courses because of the difficulties and have to stay in the college to retake the courses. Although this is true, the price is worthy compared to the total income in the future life. Comparing to the students who choose majors that are populated, students taking required challenging courses in the major chosen by fewer students has much more opportunity to find well-paid jobs (Thompson, 2013) because companies in the related field need students who have the related knowledge enter their companies since the difficulties of the required courses scared off lots of students. And about the age problem, the average data of "not graduate on time" is about a year, while the difference between the payments of jobs can be up to two to three times per year (Payscale,2014). So the loss of one year doesn't change anything and students can earn much money from their jobs. 
	On the contrast of "GPA rules the application", GPA nowadays is becoming less important in the eyes of the employers because the projects are usually quite huge that can't be finished alone. So despite personal ability, most of the companies start to find some special soft quality from the applicants. Ambition, initiative, commitment, personality (Giang, 2013) are the quantities bosses looking for in job candidates. Therefore, students who take challenging courses may take advantage from the course work because they sometimes are required to work together to finish a big homework, which is just the experience the employers are looking for. In addition, the GPA requirement of the graduate school is not always that high. For example, the graduate school of Purdue set the general requirement of GPA of enrollment at 3.0, which means students don't need to get A+s for every courses attending. Even though some departments require a GPA of 3.5, it usually could be the GPA of specific courses the students have taken. Since Purdue University is one of the best universities in the world, we can estimate that most of the graduate schools around the world may require the same or even lower than Purdue does. Thus, the requirement of enrolling into graduate school is not as high as we imagined and having Bs and several Cs is still acceptable for graduation. 
	Hence, college students should take challenging courses in the college. It is not just because of the money, but it will make their college lives more meaningful. The more students work, the more they will gain from their work. And the reason of going to college is learning advanced knowledge, while GPA is just a numeric measurement of students' performance. If a student gets a low grade in the class, there would be two possible reasons. It may be because everyone has low scores due to the difficulty of the course or he may not have put enough effort into the course. The first situation seldom happens as the professors may curve everyone's grade due to the final result. So, here I want to point out that one's attitude determines the result he will get. Difficulty could be the reason of getting lower score, but it shouldn't be the excuse not putting great effort into study because it is hard to get a high score. 
