2 May 2016 
Do family background and living environment really matter for children's academic performances at school? 
Have your ever thought about this question: is it true that family background and living environment can exert an influence to a child? I once watched one of the James Paul Gee's videos in You Tube. In the beginning of the video, he mentions several questions which attract my interest. He asks that "What features at home are correlated with success? What's the most important things that kid does at home?" From his perspective, family factors are correlated with how successfully children will be in the first grade. Generally, family factors refer to living environment, meaning whether children come from rich or poor families and family background, representing parents' educational degree and parents' marriage conditions. However, some of my fellow friends and the public do believe that children's academic performances have nothing to do with their parents and families because they trust that it is school's responsibility to educate children. Therefore, do family background and living environment really matter for children's academic performances at school? In this argumentative paper, according to internal influence (parents' educational degree and family income) and external influence (parents' marriage condition), I would argue these topics: whether parents' educational degree has a deep impact on their children's study? Does parents' income play an important role in children's academic performances? and what's the relationship between parents' marriage conditions and children's educational performances in schools? 
First of all, I admit that children's academic performances and abilities basically depend on their own features. For example, based on different kinds of personalities, some children would like to sit in front of desks to study quietly. So most of them are able to get good grades in school. This kind of children mostly tend to have quiet personalities. Other children, who have naughty personalities, prefer to play outside and are not willing to study. Then people would conclude that children's academic performances at school just depend on themselves rather than their parents. However, it is not precise to persist that children's academic performances are just the results of their personalities. Instead, there are some relationships between parents' educational degree and children's academic performances at school. In other words, parents' educational degree affects their children's academic performances. According to the proposal titled "How does parents' education level influence parenting and children's achievement." published by Center for Analysis of Pathways from Childhood to Adulthood and written by Davis-Kean, Pamela E., Holly R. Sexton who come from University of Michigan and Katherine A. Magnuson who comes from University of Wisconsin-Madison, parents with higher educational degree are more likely to encourage their children to do well in school than parents with lower educational degree do. In addition, most of them have higher expectations on their children's academic performances. For example, from the authors' perspective, "parents with higher levels of educational attainment have teaching styles that promote children's development, engage their children in higher quality verbal interactions, and provide cognitively stimulating learning environment and literacy activities at home." Mostly, parents of higher educational degree are more involved with their children's "education, teachers, and educational institutions." All in all, according to the authors, "higher levels of parents' education are associated with higher levels of warmth in parent-child interactions." From my own perspective, why do parents of higher educational level have teaching style and get more involved in students' studying? I believe that's because they have received education taught by prestigious professors and they are deeply influenced by their professors. Thus, parents' of higher educational degree can stimulate their professors' teaching style and base on their learning experience to carry out in practice. Furthermore, by reading the article "Involvement in Education: How Important Is It? What Can Legislators Do?" come from Wisconsin Family Impact Seminars and written by Karen Bogenschneider and Carol Johnson who come from University of Wisconsin-Madison, I know that "parents are the first and foremost influence on their children's development and school success." I totally agree with the author's perspective. When parents are involved, students mostly will be more motivated and serious towards their studying. What's more, according to the author, "children of involved parents have better attendance records, drop out less often, have higher aspirations, and more positive attitudes toward school and homework." In my opinion, parents' attitudes towards study will influence their children. By attending school meetings and joining school events, those parents would have a comprehensive understanding of their children's academic performances at school so that they could help children in a better way. Therefore, with more involvements of their parents, children will find it hard to get worse grades. Even some naughty children can sit in front of the desks to study due to their parents' active involvements and restrictions of their study. From these resources, I can conclude that parents' educational degree definitely plays an important role in children's education. Children who come from high educational degree families tend to have better performances at school. Personality actually does not play the most important role in children's academic performances. 
Second, some people may agree that parents' income does not play the main part of children's academic performances in school. Admittedly, according to the article, "Child Poverty Can Be Reduced" written by Robert D. Plotnick and came from The Future of children(1997): 72-87, until recently, there are lots of foundations prepared for poor families to help their children get educated. For example, "MOST" (making the most of out-of-school time) is one of the programs designed for tutoring low-income children after school. It is true that poor families can get more educational help from foundations. They even can equally sit in the same classrooms with rich children, but is it enough to only depend on foundational program? I think the answer is "NO". Students should simultaneously be cared by their parents. According to the article, "Basic Facts About Low-income Children" published by National Center for Children in Poverty: New York, NY. in 2013 and written by Sophia Addy, Will Engelhardt, and Curtis Skinner, "there are more than 72 million children under 18 years old in the United States; 45 percent of them live in low-income families and 22 percent of them live in poor families." Because their parents are busy with working to earn more money, their academic studies are not actually asked by their parents. In addition, their parents won't have enough money spending on extra study activities, such as after-class tutoring, standard test coaching and academic study materials purchases. However, I know it is unfair but I still agree that rich children are more likely to have better academic performances at school due to valuable resources they touched. According to the article "Why rich kids become rich adults and poor kids become poor adults?" come from The Wilson Quarterly on August 13, 2015 and written by Maya Wesby, children with high-income parents have easy access to "luxurious resources". For example, their parents are willing to invest money on their after-class tutoring, standard tests and even the parents will provide children with rare sources such as studying with prestigious professors and participating in meaningful curricular activities; however, poor children won't get access to them due to their poverty. In addition, since most of rich children live in rich communities, the environment set them up with an advantage compared with poor children. As far as I am concerned, the main reason of such a big difference between rich and poor children in their after-school life is because of their parents' income. Rich family absolutely can pay for the fee of luxurious resources. That's the very beginning of unfair and different academic performances. So I still agree that family income is another important factor influencing children's academic abilities and performances. 
Third, there is a common opinion that it is schools' responsibility to educate children, and their parents' responsibilities are just to provide enough money and comfortable houses. However, from my own perspective, people who hold the opinion just ignore another vital factor: parents' marriage conditions. I once read an article called "Long-Term Effects of Parental Divorce on Parent-Child Relationships, Adjustment, and Achievement in Young Adulthood." published by Journal of Family Psychology, Vol 7(1), Jun 1993, 91-103. The researchers finish an experiment whose subjects are divorced parents, single mother or father, complete and happy family's parents. After analyzing the data, the author found that children were more likely to perform better at school if they were from a complete and happy family. That's because usually those happy children have more conversations with their parents in daily life since their parents put enough efforts of caring their children. children of happy families receive more attention than children of incomplete families. Because of that, children from happy families know they should ask help or talk to their parents once they are in trouble. However, children from single or divorced families won't have too much conversations with their parents because their parents are under big pressure of the cost of their daily life. Even their children want to talk to their parent, their parents may not have too much time to do so. Gradually, children of incomplete families do not know how to release pressures once they are in trouble in school. Therefore, that's why from the author's analysis, I can conclude children with two parents have less study issues at school compared with children with single parent. So people shouldn't always pass the buck of educating children to school because parents' marriage conditions, to some extent, impact their children. 
In conclusion, no matter what opinions of factors influencing children's academic performances at school are held by public, I still agree that family background and living environment really matter for children's academic performances at school. First of all, the analysis mentioned above show that parents with high educational degree would get more involved in children's study. Second, high income family will provide their children with luxurious resources. Third, compete families have a positive impact on their children's study. However, poor family background won't always decide children's future. I personally believe that if poor parents could pay more attention to their academic study and government could spend more money to help those children, it is highly likely for some ambitious children to have better academic performances and a bright future. For my future study, I think it is worthwhile to figure out some efficient solutions to help those children who come from poor families or live with single parent but are ambitious out of educational dilemma. 
