Gap year struggle 
For a long time, students go to college right after they graduated from high school. But over the decades, taking gap years between high schools and colleges has become more prevalent in education field. In today's society, more and more students decide to take gap years, so parents and some education experts start to pay attention on that whether taking gap years will benefit students or not. Does taking gap years cost too much money? Does taking gap years threat students' safety? Does taking gap years help students to do better in their college lives or future lives? With much speculation, this topic has become a very intriguing argument. 
Nowadays, many students choose traveling during their gap years. Some of them choose to travel around their own countries. Most of students choose to travel abroad to learn a new language or to experience new culture, which will cost a lot of money. Parents think that gap-year experience is only for the well-heeled, because these people have a lot of money to waste. But the truth is that there are many low- or no-cost, service-oriented programs and organizations, like USA Gap Year Fairs, that offer room and board, like volunteering at a school for the deaf, clearing trails in national forests or working as a deck hand on a ship. Not only these social organizations will help you pay for your trip, but also some universities offer scholarship to help students pay for their trip. Like Princeton University and University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, they offer scholarship for gap-year students, encouraging students to take gap years. A gap year doesn't have to cost a fortune. Typically, gap experiences cost less than equivalent time in college. 
Meanwhile, since more students are planning to attend low-or no-cost programs, parents start to have some suspicions about these programs. Not all gap-year programs provide enough structure or direction. They are worried about their kids can't receive enough guidance. Nothing is guaranteed. So parents and students should vet programs by interviewing past participants and asking about staffing and safety first. 
Another major worry from parents is safety. Since a lot of students will go traveling abroad, work in strange place or help poor people in some undeveloped country where public security is still a problem. These parents do have a point. It's natural for parents to be concerned about kids' safety. But students can choose working with a reputable gap year organization that keeps students in groups with adult mentors and maintains constant communication heightens safety. Parents can also check online reviews and ask to speak with program alumni about their experiences. Parents must recognize that there are always going to be risks wherever you are. College campuses are not without risks. The students we are talking about right now are adults, so it is time to let students spread their wings. 
Some education experts also worry that students will forget academic knowledge and skills they gained in high school. After one year or maybe two years, students may forget about the knowledge learned in school. There is a chance that they decide not to go back to school. Experts think that it is not worthy to skip the higher education. According to the National Center for Education Statistics, about 90 percent returned to college within one year of the gap year and these gap year students return to college with greater focus and clearer educational goals. 
As a gap-year student, I think my one-year gap is extremely valuable to me and makes me different from other freshmen. I went to work after I graduated from high school, because I need to help my family to pay for my father's medical treatment. This experience taught me no matter what happened in my life I need to take responsibility for it as an adult. I didn't spend a lot of money during my gap year. Even I went to a new place to work, I am still safe and sound right now. At last, I went to back to school and got myself into Purdue University. 
Whether the gap-year will be beneficial or not is nothing to do with which gap-year you choose or how much money you spend during the gap year. We need to make our gap-year plan fit us. This is the only way we can gain benefits from taking gap years. 
