P5D3 Argumentative Essay 
April 25, 2015 
		 Summer Programs for International Students 
In this modern age of improved technology and information international students travel half way across the globe to get good education. When they go to the host country they are in cultural shock and they may not cope up with the changes in their academic environment. According to a survey conducted by Seiko Takesue about 85 percent of the international students reported experiencing cultural shock during their college (Takesue, 2008). That is a really big number and efforts should be made to reduce this number to give international students a swift transition to college. Universities should have summer programs for international students to educate them about the cultural and academic practices of the host nation. 
One of the reasons why international students struggle with academic life during initial phase of college is they have little to no experience with the types of projects and assignments in the new education system. Vuk Bojovic, an international student from Serbia in the US was quoted saying "When I first came here, I had a problem with research papers, as I have never wrote them in high school in Serbia I was not familiar with the structure of a paper as well as academic resources and citations." (Hopkins, 2014). If international students like Vuc Bujovic had been educated about the new academic projects, and the procedure to do these things they would not find it challenging. This way they will have an idea beforehand on what they are going to be assigned and how they have to do it. 
Another common challenge faced by international students is they don't understand why they have to take extra courses outside their major like general education classes. Ashima Laad, an international student from India studying at Drake University, Iowa says, "Wait, why do I have to do history? Why do I have to do religion? I [had] question marks all over the place-I was just so shocked." (Hopkins, 2014) This problem can be solved if a summer program educates international students about the benefits of taking these extra courses and also give them an idea based on their interests to decide what general education classes they should choose. This would make them see the point of taking extra courses and they may even like extra classes better than the classes related to their major. 
A lot of international students speak language different than the language spoken in host country. Due to this they may find it hard to communicate with people and make friends. Being an international student I've experienced this challenge myself. International students also don't completely understand the host country's social rules for communication. Due to this they may find it hard to communicate effectively and build relationships with their international friends and professors. <Name>, an international student here at Purdue says, "I was surprised to see how people communicate so directly here in the US. We don't refuse any offer made to us so directly back home." (<Name>, personal communication, April 20, 2015). A summer program which would help international students learn all this and may be have someone from host country to help them improve their language skills might help a lot. They would be able to start the college normally as their international counterparts. 
Admittedly, a summer program alone cannot help international students understand all these differences but a summer program can help them understand a lot of these differences between the two cultures and prepare them for a swift start to the college. According to a survey conducted by Jessica Stahl, 75 percent of the international students said they had more than 2 American friends and about 10 percent said they had no American friends (Stahl, 2015). Some international students find it hard to approach people from other countries. Adding to this issue, if there are no summer programs for international students, they start their college knowing little to nothing about what they are going to face in their college life. They may not be aware of all the opportunities available to them at the colleges in the host countries. For example, college students here in the USA can do research and internship as early as their freshmen year. These opportunities are not available in many foreign countries, so international students may not be aware of such opportunities available to them. Oumar Sacko, an international student at James Madison University says, "I wish I knew about Undergraduate Research opportunities earlier." (Sacko, 2013). When a summer program is implemented to help and educate them, they will be well equipped to deal with the differences and feel inclusive in the different culture. 
International students face many different challenges during the beginning of their college life. They may not understand the type of assignments in the college. They also face challenges due to language barrier and cultural differences due to which they struggle with their social life. These issues should be addressed because the overall number of international students in the USA has grown 72 percent since 2000 (Haynie, 2014). International students make up about the 4 percent of the student population in the US universities. This is a large number of students and efforts should be made to address their problems. Further, it'll be easier for professors to deal with students who are well aware of their education system before coming to college; additionally, there is a chance of improvement in the performance of international students. All the above mentioned issues can be solved by having a summer program before the start of the college which would be dedicated to educate international students about all these differences and how to cope with them, and also educate them about the available opportunities to them. Such programs will give international students a swift start to their college life. 
