Paper #3/draft #1 
Mar. 1 2015 
Word count 752 
				 Introduction 
	There are so many stores around Purdue are selling cigarettes. They are so close to campus they can almost called "on campus" stores. This situation is worse in universities in China. In China even the convenient stores and market on campus sell cigarettes. Should cigarette products be farther from the school? Every body knows cigarettes are bad for us. There are so many disadvantages for stores around campus selling cigarettes. Cigarettes can cause damage to our health, Thousands of people die every year because of the diseases caused by smoking. People can get addicted to cigarettes easily, this can make them keep smoking the "poisonous" cigarettes every day. Some people even think they can't live without cigarettes. 
	 Why is it wrong for stores near campus to sell cigarettes 
	According to the words <name> told me on the interview. It's definitely not right for stores near campus to sell cigarettes. Cigarettes have bad effects to our body, it is wrong for stores selling such a bad product especially stores around campus, even though cigarettes are legal products. When talking about morality, she said it's only not moral for bookstores and pharmacy stores near campus to sell it. To my surprise, when I walked by the bookstore last week, I saw a "Marlboro" advertisement on the door. I didn't know if they sell cigarettes in the bookstore, but if they do it's definitely not moral. Because the only customs who might go there are university students 
			smoking will cause damage to our health 
	Smoking is "dangerous", it will cause lot's of bad effects to a human body. Thousands of people die every year because of the diseases caused by smoking For example a person who smokes will have a seven-time probability to get a lung cancer. <name> told me, though the body of a university student are already mature. But the earlier a person started to smoke the risk of getting diseases like lung cancer is going to add up. She emphasized the word "cumulative" to show that the risk of getting diseases for a smoker is going accumulate every day. So it's not good for college students to smoke. Smoking will cause more damage to a teenager whose body is not mature enough. She also told me 80% percent of smokers start smoking around the age of 18, if the stores near campus keep selling cigarettes there will be more new smokers. Some people who don't smoke in high school will likely become smokers. According to the article I searched. There are still a large percentage of smokers amongst the adult. The problem is also serious in young people. A research showed 15% percent of the young people aged 15 are classified as smokers. The damage to their health is going to accumulate because of the early start in smoking. Martyn Denscombe (2010). 
		 Cigarette advertisements are immoral 
According to the article I read cigarette advertisements are unethical when they are targeting children and teenagers. Children and teenagers are the ones who can be easily influenced by the advertisements. Simon Chapman (1996). I was shock by the "Marlboro" advertisement on the door of the university bookstore when I walked by. The target of the advertisement is so obvious-Students. Even though the cigarette companies know how "dangerous" it is for people like collage students to start smoking in a early age, Their advertisement are still targeting collage students. This is immoral. 
			 Conclusion 
It's wrong for stores near campus to sell cigarettes, according to <name> words, and the articles I searched, though it's legal but it's definitely not right for store near campus to sell cigarettes. It's especially immoral for bookstores and pharmacy stores to sell and advertise it. When a student started to smoke early the risk of getting diseases like lung cancer is going to add up. If the stores near campus keep selling cigarette some people who were not smokers in high school will likely become new smokers in collage, since the mind of some college students are not mature enough. This means more people are likely going suffer the deceases caused by smoking. In my opinion it's definitely not right for stores around the campus to sell cigarettes. 
Reference: 
Simon Chapman (1996) 'The Affect Heuristic and Perceptions of 'the Young Smoker' as a Risk Object.' , 52(1), pp. 121-13. 
Martyn Denscombe (2010) 'The affect heuristic and perceptions of 'the young smoker' as a risk object', 12(5), pp. 425-440 
