Reverse Summary 
As people gradually concentrated more on their health, how to solve some health concern becomes a huge problem. Nevertheless, people might not notice some body condition like obesity which is able to bring lots of extra problems. So we need to recognize the seriousness of obesity and avoid the terrible result. 
One might subject here is obesity is not a directly illness like cancer, leukemia and so on. Cancer and leukemia is very easy to cause death. To be more detailed,'obesity is just a condition in which the natural energy reserve, stored in the fatty tissue of humans and mammals.'(2015) It seems that it will not cause a big problem. However, actually obesity may have a negative effect on health, leading to reduced life expectancy and increased health problems. And obesity will still lead to some inconvenience to the daily life. 
For example, my interviewee <name> (2015) whose an adult nurse practitioner in the student help center at Purdue. <name> indicated that obesity is already become a huge health concern, because computer make us sit more and we don't have to do some things by ourselves because someone else might do things for us, like the server in the restaurant. Nowadays people don't do their work anymore and don't work physically as much. People would like to cut wood by using machine instead of cutting wood by themselves. Additionally, people have fewer time and chance to walk to someplace and people will call and text to their friends, instead of meeting together. Furthermore, the majority of diverse transportation can be another reason, because people would like to take bus and subway rather than walk. Those kinds of lifestyle make people have more chance to become obesity, so knowing more about obesity is helpful for everyone. 
Obesity will cause some illness. According to Medi-Weightloss(2006-2015), more than 65 million adults and 10 million children suffer from obesity.'Being morbidly obese can compromise your health, shorten your life, and even cause death. If people are overweight, the probabilities of developing heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure increase significantly. Here are the top 10 obesity-related diseases.'(2015) The first one can be high blood pressure, and it is the mainly cause of death for Americans whose over 25. The reason why obesity cause high blood pressure is that people need more oxygen for the fat body, so as to transport oxygen to every corner of body, people need blood than normal, so per unit time increases the amount of blood flow through blood vessels, resulting in higher blood pressure. Another mainly illness caused by obesity is diabetes because being overweight or obese contributes to the development of diabetes by making cells more resistant to the effects of insulin. The third one can be heart disease because of the excessive fat accumulation the blood volume increased and cause the load of heart. Additionally, obese are not active enough, and their body condition is able to limited their activities. It will leads to the decline of cardiac compensatory ability. 
Obesity is able to bring lots of inconvenience to obese. From <name> (2015)example, she said : her sister Lily is an obese, and Lily experienced a more difficult life. Sometimes she even had a hard time to clean herself because she can't rich place to clean herself. And it's still difficult for her to walk upstairs and she can't walk too far. Furthermore the weight of her neck might make she feel breathless and it is very dangerous. Unfortunately, there is no way to the cinema to see a movie or go to the concert, some public chairs are unable for obese to sit down. Obese also cannot use narrow toilet in the public restroom. When obese take plane, they need to take up two seats and pay twice. Obese will still feel unconfident because people might talk about them within different vision. Obese consume more oxygen in their body, so sometimes they will feel lethargy and drowsy and they will still walk slow and has a slow reaction. 
We can do something to avoid some bad result caused by obesity. The President and Fellows of Harvard College(2015) indicated that we can prevent obesity mainly through food and exercise. The physical and social surroundings that influence what we eat-makes it far too hard to choose healthy foods, and all too easy to choose unhealthy foods. Making healthy foods and drinks more convenient and affordable can be the first step and reduce the quantity of junk food and any high fat food, so as to create a healthy food environment. And the last one can be improving healthy activity environment to be more specific, environment is really important for people's behavior. If there are no safe places to ride bikes, few people will commute by bike to work or school. If there are no gyms nearby, few people will have a safe and comfortable place to exercise. So increasing the number of exercise place can be a good choose to solve obesity. In addition, the organization, such as school, government and company can encourage people to do more exercise. 
To sum up, I think obesity has not been regarded as a very serious problem for some people because it is just a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent. However, after the research, we know that obesity does have lots of bad result like it will be the causes of some illness and bring inconvenience. People need to recognize obesity is already a huge health concern now, trying to find the way to avoid and solve it can be an very important things now. 
Reference page 
Medi-Weightloss 2006-2015 
https://www.mediweightlossclinics.com/patients/resources/articles/obesity-facts/ 
The President and Fellows of Harvard College. Obesity Prevention Strategies. Retrieved from 
	http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/obesity-prevention-source/obesity-prevention/ 
