4/20/16 
Engl 106i 
P5d3 
People should learn more and care more about LGBT teens. 
Homosexual people have been receiving public discriminations for so many years and there have been many issues going on with young LGBT people, such as homeless, violence and psychological problems. Most people are not familiar with LGBT people, they normally have bias on LGBT people and be afraid of this community. I think that people should learn more about the LGBT community and should treat LGBT teens equally. 
First of all, we should find why the discrimination happens. In 
a society that is dominated by heterosexuality, the mainstream values tend to conceal and oppress the people who are different and distinguishable from one social group, religions also put great pressure on LGBT community from hundred years ago. Back in times, LGBT community were invisible and some LGBT people were regarded as criminals or sick people who did not have freedom and rights to love and to live. Although now LGBT don't have threats on living, the misunderstanding still exists between different sexual orientations. I think people could not deny the existences of other kinds of sexual orientation. LGBT people are just humans and they also prove the diversity of the nature. Homosexuality is not a kind of mental or physical problem and they should not be regarded as a weird social group. Kids keep receiving wrong ideas from their parents, society, religions from a generation to next generation and then LGBT people are suffering from social judgment every single day. To eliminate discriminations, my suggestion is that social organizations should provide information about LGBT people to the public and let them know that LGBT people also need care and protection, they are not monsters or sick persons, they were born with their sexual orientation just as who were born with a fixed gender that no one could make their own decision on it. I believe that if people are willing to learn more about LGBT people, they will understand the harsh circumstances of this community, we might not feel how painful it is for LGBT people, but the world would change even with little understandings of each other. 
Second, the LGBT teens are the most fragile people under current social norms and I think that school, family and other social organizations should also provide resources for LGBT teens. It is positive to see that there are more social medias for LGBT teens to consult their psychology issues such as motivation of suicide, also, LGBT people are organizing LGBT teens to share their experiments online and make them feel safe which means teens can find a place where have empathy from people who care about them. Parents should support their LGBT teens and should not kick them out due to sexual orientations. LGBT teens are also child who need love and care, parents need to protect their children. 
LGBT people need to be treated equally. They are human, so are we. We should not classify them as something apart from us. Nobody wants to be resented or inapprehensive. The nature has great diversities, for human, we have different skin color, gender, or shape. The differences between sexual orientations are also part of the nature, people should show respect, and treat each other equally and LGBT people deserve their own rights. The homosexual relationship is same with every heterosexual couple. 
Some people might argue that homosexuality is anti-nature because they could not reproduce. The fact is that many LGBT people would love to have baby so they do the adoption which is an action benefiting the society. People should ask themselves who leave those orphans behind. Some people think that people who be labeled by LGBT means they are doing something ugly such as sleeping around and might transmit disease. Do some of the heterosexual person have more than one sexual partner in their daily life? The answer is obviously yes. However, in a homosexual relationship, people also want to be loyal with their love one just as any other people in the world. 
In conclusion, people's discriminations toward homosexual people come from their lack of knowledge about this kind of people and make the harsh judgment depending on their own imaginations. Nobody will know the taste of an apple without a bite. LGBT people are under unimaginable social pressure. We should care about them, and learn more about them. 
