P5d1_arp 
April 11, 2016 
To Some Extent College Students Should Not Always Challenge Authority 
Usually people are regarded to have independent idea from their tens, because since then, they will not simply follow instructions from their parents or teachers. In fact, according to IB Theory of Knowledge teacher Amy Li in Shude High School, students tend to challenge information from authorities since their high school age. This phenomenon has been encouraged by most people for long time. However, most college students do not have the ability to do so and there is not false to follow authorities for college students. In fact, challenging is not always the best way for students to deal with information from authorities. Considering reasons above, challenging authorities, in most of cases, is actually not necessary for college students. 
Almost every college student does not have enough ability to challenge authorities. For most of college students, although they may have their specific major, they are obviously not expertise in such field. They still have a lot to learn. Under such condition, not every student has enough knowledge background to challenge their professors. In fact, from professor Jack Spencer, in most of cases what students usually do is to question what contradictory with what they think they know. In this situation, there actually is no need to challenge, students probably should simply ask questions or ask more detailed explanations. Besides academic field, college students are really new to society or life, they also do not have the knowledge to doubt authorities in their daily life. For example, there is no need to challenge doctors in hospital. Doctors have professional knowledge for medicine or diseases, but most of college students only have experience from their parents or friends. In such case, why should a college student to challenge information from such authority? 
On top of that, obedience, following authorities, is important for not only college students but also for society as a whole. "Obedience is a part of the foundation of society. Without obedience, naught would exist but chaos and anarchy. Without stability, productivity and the well-being of the citizens become non-existent." Here, reasonable obedience will provide students productive classes and ordered environment. Apart from that, obedience benefit students to learn. "Skinner, perhaps the most important behaviorist, argues that it is not a question of whether or not a student is shaped to exhibit particular behaviors. The only issue is who and what will do the shaping, and for what ends. Obedience is a key means of fostering the implantation of desired goals through appropriate shaping, whether or not the student is aware of all the dynamics of the reaming environment." Hence, for college students, obedience to advisor, professor, or parents is helping them to build a structured knowledge background, to gain a greater academic achievement. 
The correct way for college students to deal with information from authorities is to be critical. Although there might be similarities between critical thinking and challenging, critical thinking is not simply to challenge. In the article Teaching for Critical Thinking: Helping College Students Develop the Skills and Dispositions of a Critical Thinker. Diane F. Halpern defined critical thinking as "the kind of thinking involved in solving problems, formulating inferences, calculating likelihoods, and making decisions." (1999) That is to say, critical thinking instead of an ability is way of thinking. College students should have their opinion towards information from authorities, other than simply show off their intelligent and to mean to provide opposite opinions. After carefully thinking about information from authorities, students still could choose methods such as ask questions, seek further information and so on to deal with information from authority instead of simply showing disagree and challenge. 
In short, challenging authorities is not always good for students. As a college student, we need to be rational and critical. Showing off the ability of debating is not the proper way for us to deal with information from authority. 
