Draft#3 
Dec.9,2015 
Online Stores Win Over Offline Stores 
For many years, offline stores used to be viewed as indispensable in people's daily life. People went to supermarkets and department stores to do weekly shopping. When sellers offered discount, the frequency that people purchased goods in these stores even enhanced. However, with the popularization and development of the Internet, shopping online has become an irresistible tide. Additionally, not only the young enjoy online shopping, but also the old are shopping through the Internet. What's more, many offline stores have cut down the size of their stores and sell their goods only through online stores. Based on these phenomena, I believe online stores will replace offline stores. There are three principal reasons: time, price and trust. 
First, online stores attract a large number of people due to time saving. Customers are up to their neck in work during the weekdays. To this extent, they don't have enough time to stroll between rows and rows of shelves and then pick the goods they want. Chu, Chintagunta and Cebollada (2008) mentioned that customers prefer online shopping because of time constraint. According to the previous research conducted by Urbany et al. (1996) and Putrevu and Ratchford (1997), they found that time pressure is negatively related to cherry-picking behavior. What's more, Fox and Hoch (2005) found that the likelihood of cherry picking is higher on weekends than on weekdays. Cherry picking means that consumers spend a lot of time going to different offline stores in order to choose the best good from various goods. With the evolution of Internet technology, cherry picking behavior can be achieved during weekdays through online shopping by browsing the websites which contain all the goods. For that reason, Chu, Chintagunta and Cebollada (2008) inferred that consumers choose online shopping during the weekdays because they are lack of time. In addition to save customers' time to go to offline stores, online store owners simplify the procedure of online shopping for customers. Alreck et al. (2011) realized that time-pressured consumers are willing to finish every step from log on, check out, to log off with minimal time and exertion. Such customers compress time to address themselves to various activities and achieving them concurrently. Online stores gain more customers if they focus simultaneously on time-saving and faster completion of online shopping. 
The second reason that online stores will replace offline stores on account of price. Online stores offer greatly lower prices than offline stores. In consonance with my interview of <name> who used to be an agent of a famous luxury brands in China, but later quitted his job and established his online store, he strongly supported the idea that prices of online stores are lower than offline stores (<name>, personal communication, October 8, 2015). When I interviewed him, I was surprised to find that his selling price was nearly half of the selling price of his old offline store while his profits increased. He indicated that he can diminish his selling price because he has lower costs. He has no inventory pressure, lower operating costs and fewer clerk wages. Additionally, price promotions or free shipping boosts the frequency of online shopping. Close and Kukar-Kinney (2010) indicated the relationship between frequency and incitation of consumers' online shopping cart use. As stated in the data through the article, 93% of the customers buy the goods when there is a special promotion. Customers are willing to purchase more goods when they want to get a special promotion or reach the price limit of free shipping. The lower the price is, the more the consumers prefer online shopping. 
The third reason is that online stores develop more trust with customers. If online stores can securely hold customers' private information like names or card numbers, customers prefer shopping in these stores because consumers will produce a strong sense of trust on these stores. Mc Knight et al. (1998) broke the trust level into two distinct parts: (1) trust belief and (2) intention. Trust belief revealed the attitude of online seller whether they are sincere and honest or not. Intention showed if this seller could notify the possibility for an online transaction loss in advance. Developing trust among first-time visitors to online stores is also essential. As reported by Lim et al. (2006), they investigated the effectiveness of various trust-building strategies, especially for first-time visitors to online stores. They found that endorsements by similar peers positively influenced consumers' attitudes toward online shopping, which ultimately led to actual buying behaviors even they are first-time visitors to online stores. 
Offline stores which have a longer history and offer real objects seem to be more trustworthy and the government can regulate offline stores according to laws. However, online stores are now trying to build mutual trust with customers and the government is cooperating with those online stores to formulate policies for the online market. As stated in the interview of <name> who is the chief of Shanghai Industrial and Commercial Bureau, he mentioned the Industrial and Commercial Bureau's collaboration with Taobao (<name>, personal communication, October 9, 2015). Taobao provides the big data of all the retailers and the list of goods. At the same time, the industrial and commercial bureau supervises the online stores through this data which helps Taobao prevent fake goods and dishonest owners of the stores. This is the joint regulation between online stores and the government. Fundamentally, online stores are now as reliable as offline stores. 
As shown above, online stores will replace offline stores owing to time, price and trust. Additionally, the joint regulation between online stores and the government should be more rigorous and more extensive. Under the great development and progress of online stores, they will replace offline stores eventually. 
