Lose weight, from the wrong way to the right path 
It is apparent that current people are getting more concerned about their physical figures, which in turn brings up circumstance in which many of them are obsessed with losing weight. A data shows that about 75% of people who have weight issues are applying the extremely wrong way to lose weight, such as dieting and apastia or single food diet. However, those people are not aware of the negative consequences of these approaches, which will cause the significant decrease of modern people's health. In my opinion, it is vital to remind people to apply the right and healthy way to be slim, because many of those weight loss methods are harmful towards human's body. 
First to be mentioned is that unhealthy weight loss methods may cause severe consequences towards human beings' physical status. Since people become more vulnerable when they are on a diet or applying other wrong ways to be slim. Belinda, who is my fitness coach, gave an overlook of the body healthy condition decrease that wrong weight loss approach cause on people. She noted that the limited calorie absorbed would lead to weak condition, such as less energy and even fainting. More seriously, some life-threatened diseases will appear. To be more specific, in the article called "How Crash Diets Harm Your Health" that is published on CNNHealth by Bryan Miller on 2010, it states that the rapid weight loss slows metabolism, leading the future weight gain and depriving the essential nutrients of the body. Even more, it will weaken the immune system and highly increase the risk of dehydration, heart palpitation or more serious illness. Besides that, in the article "Avoid extreme weight loss methods" published on diet-academy (www.diet-academy.com). It demonstrated the consequences when people eat under the minimum amount of energy that required being absorbed, which are anemia, irregular heartbeat and dizziness. When it comes to women, may be the amenorrhea. As a result, the above discussion shows that the wrong methods applying by people will threaten human physical health and even cause death. 
Moreover, using the bad ways to lose weight will have effects on human emotional health as well, because people who want to be slim would be more sensitive than usual so they will be easily emotional hurt by their surrounding circumstance. And my personal remorseful experiences can fully demonstrated the idea. After I have lost 10 kilograms by using such ways like dieting and fast, I became much more irritable and the total attitude towards everything in life turned to passive side. Once, when I found myself eating 2 pieces of cheesecake for a day, I started blamed myself and even broke things at home, which shocked my mom and dad. Meanwhile, I did not feel like studying or engaging in any other thing. I usually finished my homework as soon as possible and just sit down with nothing to do. And in the end, my family took me to see the psychologist, which resulted me staying in the hospital for nearly a mouth. And that is the time that I most regretted for. For the harm that unhealthy weight loss methods caused on people's mental condition, we should not use them in order to be slim. 
It is a common conception that working out to lose weight spends people a large amount of time and energy. For modern people always have the limited time to do exercise and prepare for everyday meal, it becomes difficult to follow the steps. Meanwhile most of them want to get the effects quickly and they do not have the desire to go fitness to do work out. Since it is true that working out to be slim needs much longer time than dieting, fast to eventually lose weight. Nevertheless, short-time dieting or fast only lose water and muscles in human body but not the fat tissues. Besides, after short period of time applying extreme diet without scientific methods, people are easily getting those severe illnesses or even cause psychological hurting. As a result, it is essential for people to be aware of those negative effects and apply the right way to obtain a better body figures. 
Therefore, the above evidence illustrated that those extreme and unhealthy methods to lose pounds lead to the decrease of human being's body physical condition as well as their mental situation. In such cases, I suggest people should not try those ways and what they need to do is to apply the right methods to be fitness to be healthy, which are working out generally and eating properly. 
