Introduce 
At the ancient time, Egyptian used honey to treat their woods. In this way, their woods could be separated from air which might contain bacteria which could cause the inflection of woods. Though people know some way to treat infection from several thousand years ago, amount of people die from inflection which caused by microorganisms. Healing infection was a world wise problem until the invention of penicillin which is a kind of antibiotics. From the day that penicillin was found, this new "magical medicine" saved millions of people's life. Like in the WWII, if soldiers were not treated by antibiotics, most of them who got infection might die. But as many other great discovers, antibiotics also gradually face critical and problems. For example, bacteria have resistance to antibiotics and slow development of new antibiotics. 
What happened to antibiotics? 
For decades, antibiotics have already proofed that these amazing medicines could not only used in medical aspect, but also in agriculture, animal husbandry. Antibiotics are so efficient that people are so rely on these medicines. For example, my grandfather, he needed antibiotics to treat the infection for a long time in the illness. But with the time goes on, the antibiotics that once worked didn't worked anymore, so the doctor gave him another kind of antibiotics which was more powerful than the first one. So a bad circle happened, resistance came to my grandpa. 
In an article that I read, this resistance has started for about two decades (English. B. K, Gaur. H.A.), bacteria mutate their genes to "fight" with medicines, antibiotics, then these once magical medicine lose their power. Also, in recent years an alarming increase in resistance of bacteria to antibiotics has been recognized worldwide by the WHO (2002)( J. FINK-GREMMELS). What's worst, mentioned by English. B. K, Gaur. H.A. in the article "The use and abuse of antibiotics and the development of antibiotic resistance", published on Advances in experimental medicine and biology, this resistance is enviable and bacteria always could have greater resistance to those antibiotics agents. Authors gave two examples about inevitability in the article. The first example is low exposure of antibiotics could lead low resistance and second one is occasionally resistance wild mammals probably reflects that human or animal have already been treated with antibiotics. These two experiments show that whatever the surrounding conditions are, resistances always exist and less possibility to avoid. 
People might think that if they use antibiotics carefully they might avoid this resistance from happening. However, in the most case, the usages of antibiotics also drive the development of resistance. Even appropriately use antibiotics could lead to resistance, and the uncertainly diagnosis of every day in clinical guarantee that "overuse" of some antibiotics will occur under the rational using. (Pichichero, 1999; Arnoldet al., 2005). At the same time, the real overuse and inappropriate use would greatly contribute to the resistance of antibiotics. 
Not only resistance, the narrow way of future development is what antibiotics have to face. Since the 1990s, both the decline in attractiveness of the antibiotic market and consolidations within the biopharmaceutical industry have resulted in a 75% decrease in the number of companies with large antibiotics R&D efforts (Moellering, R. C, Jr. 2012)(Eisenstein, B. and Hermsen, E.D. 2012). In 2004, antibiotics represented fewer than 2% of drugs in clinical development by 15 largest drug companies (Jabes, D.2011) 
Alternatives to antibiotics 
As more and more problems of antibiotics have been exposured, to treat inflections, alternatives to antibiotics seems quite needed. Bacteriophages, bacterial cell wall hydrolases, and antimicrobial peptides are the most promising agents for nowadays (Parisien. A., Allain. B., Zhang. J., Mandeville. R. and Lan. C.Q. (2008)). Basically, these alternative treatments are substitution of the normal microbial ora does not occur because these treatments kill only the targeted patho- genic bacteria, can respond quickly to the appearance of resistant bacterial mutants since treatments' different mechanisms. (Matsuzaki et al. (2005)) I think this advantage is what makes alternatives more attractive and potential than antibiotics. Instead of finding more new type or more powerful antibiotics to kill those resistance bacteria, which might cost unbelievable amount of research found, probably people need to change a method. Like the bacteriophages could mutant significantly high frequencies than bacteria, bacterial cell wall hydrolases are well understood and safety, and antimicrobial peptides have broad-spectrum activity (antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal). Also, these treatments have very rare side-effects. Advantages might change from one treatment to another, but compare to antibiotics, even new treatments need more cost to develop, it still better than let bacteria to continuously have resistance which might lead to the birth of "superbugs" which might be the biggest trouble to everyone also might be the reason that more and more new treatments, or alternatives to antibiotics, are invented. 
But is that possible to let alternatives to completely replace antibiotics? Professor Wilson from Department of Pharmacy Practice gave me the answer: at least in the life or death moment, the antibiotics still work very well. However, most of the time, people still need some treatments which are not that rush. I even got some idea that really shocked me. "I could imagine ethanol, you clean your hands with ethanol and you killed pretty much everything and that works by just dehydrating the microorganisms, so I don't see any way for organism to adapt alcohol. I always wonder could we inject directly a small amount of alcohol in germs or something like that, so there might actually a way to do it that they can't form resistant to. I'm not an expert on specific antibiotics but I guess is there always some potential for the development of resistance. And I think you have to assume that as you move forward that is pretty amazing for us to have antibiotics such long time. And I always wonder if we could develop vaccines. Cause it seems to me that the best way to protect a person is to engage their immune systems. So if you can come up with a better way with a vaccine that might be a really step forward. Cause your body could actually adapt as well." This was from Dr. Nauman who is in the School of Mechanical Engineering. And this vaccine idea really shows how huge potential alternatives to antibiotics have. 
Conclusion 
In sum, facing so many critical problems, like resistance, usage and slow development, antibiotics seems need other treatments, alternatives, to let people have better treated. Some alternatives which are efficiency have really high possibility to be used to treat infection, and have as same result as antibiotics do. So I really believe that for alternatives, there is a future for these new treatments to alternative antibiotics. 
Reference 
Alternatives to antibiotics J. FINK-GREMMELS Utrecht University, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht, the Netherlands. J. vet. Pharmacol. Therap. 32 (Suppl. 1), 11-46, doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2885.2009.01087.x.(WHO) 
Moellering, R. C, Jr. (2012). Discovering new antimicrobial agents. Int. J. Antimicrob. Agents 37, 2-9. 
Eisenstein, B. and Hermsen, E.D. (2012). Resistant infections: a tragic irony in modern medicine. APUA Clin. Newsl 30,11-12. 
Matsuzaki, S., Rashel, M., Uchiyama, J., Sakurai, S., Ujihara, T., Kuroda, M., Ikeuchi, M., Tani, T., et al. (2005) Bac- teriophage therapy: a revitalized therapy against bacterial infectious diseases. J Inf Chemotherapy 11, 211-219. 
English. B. K, Gaur. H.A. (2010) The use and abuse of antibiotics and the development of antibiotic resistance. Advances in experimental medicine and biology, 659, 83-92, DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0981-7 
Parisien. A., Allain. B., Zhang. J., Mandeville. R. and Lan. C.Q. (2008) Novel alternatives to antibiotics: bacteriophages, bacterial cell wall hydrolases, and antimicrobial peptides. Journal of Applied Microbiology, 104, 1-13. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2672.2007.03498.x 
Gordon. Y. J. and Romanowski. E. G. (2005), Review of Antimicrobial peptides and their therapeutic potential as anti-infective drugs. Current Eye Research, 30:505-515,. DOI: 10.1080/02713680590968637 
Alternative drugs are equally effective as modern drugs (antibiotics) 
