First Draft 
November 18, 2015 
Argumentative Essay 
What are the standards of female beauty from the perspective of men and women? 
Thesis: After intensive research was done, men female beauty standards differ from women. Men base women s beauty determiners on the physical characteristics of women that the social media has classified and portrayed as "perfection", while women rank their beauty according to others judgment, specially from the opposite gender. 
Claim 1: When classifying a woman as beautiful men analyze women s symmetry, averageness and sexual dimorphism based on the physical characteristics women in advertisement have. 
Evidence 1: According to Rhodes (2006), our natural behavior has set unconscious beauty determiners through out time. Symmetry, averageness and sexual dimorphism are the three principal aspects men analyze in women. They determine how similar are women characteristics in respect with society and if they are catalogued as pretty. Also, thinking more instinctively, sexual dimorphism represents the reproductive potential and sexual maturity in a women, directly and unconsciously relating women as a potential mother. Symmetry, measure the asymmetry and youthfulness of a woman s face, the more symmetry, the prettier. 
Evidence 2: According to Dr. <name>, social media has been in charge for selling the false illusion of "perfection", by editing women forcing them to meet unrealistic beauty standards and unconsciously obliging society that if you want to be considered beautiful you have to have certain characteristics. 
Claim 2: Women are unable to rank their own physical beauty or other women beauty objectively. When ranking their own beauty they depend on others opinions, especially men s, and when ranking others, their self-steam has an inverse correlation on how they rank others beauty. 
Evidence 1: According to Rokeach s experiment, women with a higher self-esteem overestimated there outside beauty, while women with a low self-esteem underestimated their physical beauty. There was also a trend that the more women underestimated their beauty, they rated other women higher, and inversely. After the experiment was concluded it was hypothesized that women try to maintain level their self-esteem by rating others conversely on how they see themselves. 
Evidence 2: According to the cosmetology Dr. <name>, women pay a lot of money not to improve their skin health, but to resemble the characteristics men found beautiful in a women. Men are responsible for the obsession women have for achieving the unexciting "perfect beauty". Since the beginning of times, women have been consider the inferior gender, they are the ones that need to strive in order to please men, and this is not the exception. 
