Oral English Learning for Chinese Students: Problems and Solutions 
"The limits of my language are the limits of my world." 
-Ludwig Wittgenstein(1922) 
Although Chinese people are paying more and more attention to the "global language," English, as China becomes more and more globalized with its rapid growth in economy, the current situation of oral English learning among Chinese students, especially high school and college students, is not optimistic. Admittedly, Chinese students did show remarkable improvement in reading comprehension, listening comprehension, and even writing skills, but students' communicative skills, i.e. oral English remains an eminent problem. Therefore, finding a proper way of improving Chinese students' oral English becomes requisite. Nevertheless, people have different opinions toward how to solve this problem: some hold the traditional idea that learning grammar and vocabulary is the best way for Chinese students to improve oral English; some suggest that wide reading is the best solution; some argue that only starting from children can get good results as the Critical Period Hypothesis indicated. Language learning method may vary for different people, but from my perspective, the easiest way might just be the best way, which is simply using English constantly, building a continuous language environment. 
From academic researches of notable scholars, I found lots of evidence supporting that oral English can only be improved through continuous usage. As long ago as 1921, a notable linguist, Dr. Harold Palmer had raised the theory that the art of speech becomes proficient as it is used in everyday life-a constant language environment, rather than using one's intelligence consciously. In Dr. Palmer's book The Principles of Language-Study (1921), he suggested that unlike reading or writing, which need conscious, unnatural learning, everyone in the world is invested with the spontaneous capacities for learning the spoken form of any existing language, and all we have to do is simply enlisting this capacity in our own service by keeping a language environment through usage, just like what people do when learning the mother tongue. In addition, several professors in English department of Yunnan Normal University show similar stand by mentioning that the best way of learning a foreign language is to use it, to talk in that language, especially with native speakers of that language, indicating using that language constantly is always the best method of acquiring another language. (Wu, B. & Pu, H., Personal Communication, 2011.) 
From successful example of oral English teaching in China, C&F School's teaching methods provide me with practical evidence supporting that continuous usage has the best effect on improving students' spoken English. Holding the opinion that building a English-speaking environment for students is the best approach to improve their oral English, C&F School's most teaching methods relate to this goal. Both faculty and students are required to use English under any condition as long as they are in the range of C&F School. When explaining a word or a definition, English rather than Chinese would be used: when explaining "Mandarin orange" to kindergarten kids, instead of simply telling them the Chinese meaning which everyone knows, students have to remember sentences like "mandarin is a citrus fruit grown in tropical and subtropical areas;" or "mandarin is usually eaten plain, but it can also be used to make mandarin juicy." Another extreme example is when talking about American Constitution to more-advanced-level students, the teacher uses one whole class to explain the principle of "separation of powers", then the three terms "legislature", "jurisdiction", and "executive" were introduced in order to describe the separation of powers; after that, these words would be explained in a simper way again, and then, when students don't understand any term, the teacher would expand these definitions even more explicitly. Such teaching provides students with a whole English environment, and however hard or inconvenient it is to explain these definitions, no Chinese translation will be involved during class. 
In addition to in-class English context, "English Corner" hold by native speakers was set inside the school; Students are asked to imitating and repeating native recordings of English articles; English dramas and role-plays were introduced to students so that they can practice English with friends after class; and oral English competition is hold every year with even Macbook Air as prize for the best ten students. Such methods all aim at one purpose-encouraging students to use English constantly and to build a English-speaking environment, and it works: C&F School monopolized all the English competition in Yunnan and earned an well-known reputation for being the best oral English teaching institution in Yunnan. 
Furthermore, from my personal experience, I would also argue that using English constantly can be the only best way to improve spoken English. During my 6-month internship in C&F School, all communications were required to be done using English, even things like asking for a file or ordering a cup of coffee. Through such continuous practice in English, I did indeed find my spoken English improved; meanwhile, a phenomenon was pointed out which proves the point that English language environment greatly affects one's oral English learning. Considering that students have to go to school during weekdays, our standard work time is Wednesday to Sunday, and our "weekends" would be Monday and Tuesday. After a few months' work, I found that by using English constantly under almost any condition for a whole week, I can perform English spoken skills on Saturday and Sunday; for instance I can even talk confidently about things like America's involvement in WW2, The Federalist Papers prompting U.S. Constitution, or religious factions such as LDS Church, Quakers or Puritans in the advanced classes. To the contrary, after two days' total relaxation, I might not even pronounce words correctly during Wednesday and Thursday's classes. Such phenomenon did give me the impression that one's spoken skills get familiar and familiar through continuous usage. 
Admittedly, grammar and vocabulary are the fundamental element of a language, but for oral English, only possess knowledge in words and sentences pattern would be far from enough. Dr. Palmer (1921), in his book The principles of language study, pointed out that in English colloquial language, our sentences are formed in unconscious obedience to some rules unknown to us. These rules are not contained in any manual of English grammar nor ever taught as a school subject, instead, they were formed during long-term everyday usage of the language. 
In conclusion, just like what the notable philosopher Wittgenstein(1965) said, "we don't use language according to strict rules - it hasn't been taught us by means of strict rules, either." Spoken English is improved through constant usage and language environment instead of conscious memorization of rules. To achieve proficiency in oral English, I believe, one must use any possible resource to practice, to talk, to use the language of English, because only through such way can one create an language environment, get familiar with that language, and finally possess fluent, natural oral English. 
------------------------------------- 
