Black Hole at the Center of our the Milky Way and its Role in our Galaxy Formation 
Introduction 
The universe in which we reside continues to surprise us. As we improve our technological abilities and develop better tools for exploration, we are learning more about how the universe began and all the phenomena that surround us. One such phenomenon is a black hole. A black hole is an astronomical phenomenon that occurs when a very large mass collapses, due to the extreme force of gravity, into a point in space. Black holes can vary from being extremely small (smaller, in mass, than our Sun) to ultra-massive sizes (billions of times the mass of our Sun). One such black hole happens to be right in our backyard: a supermassive black hole, also called Sgr A*, located at the center of our galaxy. Hence the question is 'Will we end up as dinner for the black hole?' This is a valid question because observations from other active galactic centers reveal that supermassive black holes can end up eating the entire galaxy. This, however, will not be the future of our galaxy because of three reasons: Sgr A* is extremely inactive; it belongs to the RIAF model of black holes; and from observation we know that the Milky Way galaxy is in a stable state and is not collapsing. 
Due to the vast nature of our universe, it is practically impossible to send tools to observe every object in the sky. Therefore astronomers formulate models to explain a phenomenon and then compare their model with the observational data. Based on what we have observed in the case of other black holes of similar mass, we know that supermassive black holes tend to be highly destructive. They take in matter at an astronomical rate and end up digesting everything in their vicinity. Due to the above mentioned observations some people claim that the same may be true with our galaxy and that we may eventually end up as dinner for the black hole. 
Evidence 
Firstly, it is important to recognize the fact that Sgr A* is a supermassive black hole in a near-dormant state. By observing the trajectory of the stars in the dense galactic center, astronomers have confirmed that the stars have maintained their trajectories. There is no practical disruption in trajectory or any instances of stars spiraling down into the black hole. According to J. Hlavacek - Larrondo (2013), Sgr A* behaves just like any other celestial body with gravitational force. Whenever any celestial body interacts with the black hole the material gets accreted, i.e., rotated at a very high speed causing matter to dissipate into energy. This energy is emitted in the form of massive X-ray jets that extend light years into space. However these sort of jets have rarely ever been observed from Sgr A*. Hence they have concluded that Sgr A* hardly ever takes in any matter. Hence the black hole remains stable in size and maintains the gravitational balance of our galaxy. 
Moreover, Sgr A* is of the Radially Inefficient Accretion Flow (RIAF) model (J. D. Schnittman (2013)). Whenever a body gets trapped by the gravitational force of the black hole, it slowly progresses towards the black hole. As it gets closer to the black hole matter starts getting sucked by the black hole and the shape of the object gets distorted. The black hole has three main parts: the accretion disk, the event horizon and the black hole dead zone. The event horizon is the boundary of the region from which matter cannot escape. The black hole dead zone is where all matter, including light, gets sucked in. Hence it is impossible to study the dead zone. Before the matter crosses the event horizon and enters the black hole's dead zone, it undergoes accretion in the accretion disk. In the case of most supermassive black holes the matter quickly streams through the accretion disk and enters the event horizon. This is not the case with our black hole because when matter is getting accreted, most of it gets rotated at very high speeds, gaining too much energy. This energy gets dissipated immediately. Thus a major part of the matter that enters the accretion disk of the black hole eventually never falls into the black hole, and rather gets ejected out as energy. 
Finally, detailed study shows that our galaxy is highly active but stable (A. Finkbeiner (2012)). The galaxy continues to be full of activity but none of the events seem to be destructive or destabilizing. Although we don't know about the origin of the black hole, astronomers do believe that the black hole has played a vital role in the formation of our galaxy. The black hole plays a role in this stable state by holding together the matter in our galaxy. It is highly unlikely that the black hole will destabilize that galaxy or that we will spiral down into the black hole. Furthermore there is no sign of any possible event that could change the current state of our galaxy. Hence it is highly unlikely that a collapse would occur, causing us to spiral down into the black hole. 
Conclusion 
Due to the above mentioned reasons we can conclude that at least in the near future (in terms of human time, about a few generations) we will not be facing a collapse and hence will not be ending up as dinner for the black hole. This conclusion, while true at this moment, is not a given in the long term future. We do not understand all the phenomena occurring in the universe and hence cannot predict our long term future. Astronomers and astronomy enthusiasts like me will continue to be on the watch out for any events that can help us learn more about the universe and our possible future. 
