Homesickness isn't a kind of illness 
Are you excited about your college life or do you miss your home? Most of freshmen will feel homesick. They might think they get sickness since they have negative attitude and cannot enjoy new life. However, is homesickness a kind of illness like a mental disease? Can homesickness kill people? It is true that most people who leave their homes because of working or studying may feel homesick. Due to unfamiliar environment, people may miss their home, their parents or even their favorite food. If the homesickness were heavy, they would lose weight, fail exam or give up working or studying abroad. Therefore, many people think that homesickness is an illness but homesickness is the root cause of such illness or troubles. In my opinion, Homesickness is a common phenomenon in our society. It is not a kind of illness but a special emotion. 
Overcoming homesickness is a growth stage that most of people need to face. In our life, we cannot grow, study and work in same situation. It is inevitable that people have to leave their comfortable and familiar zone. Maybe, it is because illness and death are natural or people should achieve their dreams in the future. All good things must come to an end one day. When the world feels less stable around us, we feel homesickness, especially for students who leave their countries and study abroad. According to The 2008 American College Health Association's national survey of college students, it showed that only 4. 2 percent of freshmen felt homesick. However, when freshmen faced problems that they were difficult to solve or when festivals came but they could not enjoy them with familiar, it would be around 90% of them who would miss home and feel homesick. People cannot avoid this growth stage. When we can overcome homesickness, we will find that we are independent and we do not need help with parents all the time. We have grown up. Therefore, Homesickness is a problem that we need to face when we grow up but not an illness. 
Homesickness is an emotion. Homesickness is defined as "distress and functional impairment caused by an actual or anticipated separation from home and attachment objects such as parents."(From Wikipedia) Thus, homesickness is a kind of emotion that caused by people who leave home and their familiar environment. It is not a real sense of sickness. In article that names Homesickness isn't really about 'home' written by Derrick Ho (2010) mentions: " [people] think something's terribly wrong. But it (homesickness) is normal and adaptive to feel homesick for some period of time. It is just your emotions and mind telling you're out of your element." Homesickness is a spontaneous emotion that will happen in any periods of our live when we leave away from your familiar environment. When people miss what they used to do or they feel uncomfortable in their new way of life, homesickness is formed. Homesickness is not caused by virus but a kind of inborn emotion. 
Many people hold the opinion that homesickness causes lots of illness such as depression, anxiety and so on. It is true that you will get them when you cannot control homesickness as a normal emotion. Although homesickness is not a kind of sickness, it is the root cause of such illness or troubles. Therefore, we have to deal with homesickness well; troubles and illnesses will keep away from us. When I was 16 years old, I left my city to study in new environment alone. At the beginning, I had to do everything without any help by my family and I could not join new environment either. I told my mother my problem. After that, she called me everyday and told me I need to make new friends and enjoy new life. I began to engage in social activities and made lots of new friends. When I got trouble again, they always helped me like my family. During this time, I did not feel anxiety and depression or lost my weight because I controlled homesickness. Thus, illness could not come out. 
In a word, we need to have positive attitude when we feel homesick because it just a normal situation and emotion. It is not a big deal. We can control it. Trees cannot grow up without root, as illness cannot form if we can handle homesickness well. Having positive attitude and making new friends are two marvelous ways to make people comfortable when they are in new environment and homesickness might not be a problem. 
Reference: 
Derrick Ho (2010), Homesickness isn't really about 'home', Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2010/HEALTH/08/16/homesickness.not.about.home/ 
