	Optimize your sleep=Improve your academic performance	 
	In every American university, college students are free to manage their own time. Thanks to this freedom, more college students tend to stay up late. Consequently, they are reported with poor academic performances due to short sleep duration and low sleep quality. Therefore, in order to improve their academic performances, students should optimize both their sleep duration and quality by avoiding staying up late, drinking less alcohol, and stopping working out before sleep. 
	The researchers from University of Rome have proved that sleep duration can affects students' academic performances (Curcio, Giuseppe). Therefore, as the main factor that affects students' sleep duration, the habit of staying up late should be gotten rid of to improve their academic performances. Although many students believe that staying up late doing academic work can boost their efficiency since they are better prepared, this might not be the case every time. This is because even if these students learn more knowledge at night, they will not be able to recall part of it since their mental status will be every low due to lack of sleep. This phenomenon is especially evident for those students who sleep six hours or less each day. Therefore, they should try to avoid staying up late if they want to have better academic performances (Roseman, Kelly). 
	At the same time, students should reduce their alcohol consumptions as well to increase their academic performances. Since the scholars from Max-Planck-Institute of Psychiatry in Germany claim that sleep quality will affect students' academic performances, students should limit their alcohol uses (K. Ahrberg). This is because drinking alcohol will influence both students' sleep duration and quality. Many people think that drinking alcohol can blur their consciousness so that they can fall asleep faster and have a better sleep quality. However, this is usually not the case. Instead, the common case will be that if a student drinks alcohol, he will find it hard to fall asleep compared to the days that he does not. Moreover, alcohol will prevent him from getting REM sleep, which is the period dream occurs. Since a good sleep contains REM sleep, students should regulate their alcohol uses in order to have better academic performances (Roseman, Kelly). 
	Besides alcohol consumption, working out before sleep is another important factor what will influence both students' sleep duration and quality. In fact, many students believe that work out before bed is good for them to get a better sleep because they are every exhausted after work out. Yet this might be the case, work out before sleep will not help them optimize their sleep. This is because similar to car's engine, human's brain will take a time to calm down. The more intense the work out is, the long it takes for brain to calm down. Furthermore, since the brain is very exhausted after work out, it will keep its lowest performance during sleep to recover. In this way, students will not get REM sleep because REM sleep requires brains to keep high performances. Therefore, in order to improve students' academic performances, they should avoid working out before bed (Roseman, Kelly). 
	Since staying up late, drinking alcohol, and working out before bed will influence students' sleep duration and quality, they should try to avoid these behaviors to increase their academic performances. This is very important because if they do not change these behaviors, they will not graduate easily since American universities are harder to graduate compared to universities in other countries. Therefore, if students want to take a shorter way to graduation, kicking these blocking factors away will help them optimize their sleep duration and quality, which will eventually increase their academic performances. 
