Argumentative Essay First Draft 
11/1/2015 
Reasons and Concerns to Consumption of Breakfast 
	Breakfast consumption has been established as a healthy dietary habit, and is followed by the majority of the society. Yet, the lack of consensus on the positive benefits of this meal, along with its cost, appear to have promoted people to skip breakfast. In 2009-2010, 16% and 12% of American men and women regularly skipped breakfast (http://www.ars.usda.gov/ba/bhnrc/fsrg). Even though this trend of breakfast omission is pervasive among American adults, its nature is rather illogical. Breakfast consumption creates nutrition and health benefits that outweigh the meal's cost, so people should regularly consume breakfast. 
	Breakfast is proven to have positive effects on mood, satiety, and cognition: factors that influence the sense of well-being. It is examined that when breakfast-skipping adolescents are fed breakfast, they show an overall increase in mood and satiety, and perform better at certain cognitive tasks, especially when the task requires higher cognitive load (Defeyter & Russo, 2013). The same study suggests a significant improvement in self-reported mood and satiety; the effect on cognition is rather mixed, but breakfast is not shown to have any negative impacts on cognition (Defeyter & Russo, 2013). Unfortunately, there are few trials examining breakfast and cognition among adults. Nevertheless, since this effect of breakfast on cognition is also observed during dietary counseling of college students (M. Singleton, personal communication, October 13, 2015), it appears that breakfast consumption is likely to have a positive effect on adult cognitive abilities as well. In other words, breakfast consumption increases the sense of personal well-being, so regular breakfast consumption should be followed to feel healthy. 
	Despite the benefits of consuming breakfast, some people still skip breakfast as their first attempt to lose weight (Levitsky & Pacanowski, 2014). However, current studies suggest that it is unlikely for breakfast omission to achieve this goal. It is hypothesized by Mc Crory that there are three types of energy intake patterns associated with breakfast omission: the first pattern under-compensates, the second pattern perfectly compensates, and the third pattern over-compensates the energy loss of skipping breakfast during subsequent meals (2014). In breakfast consumption studies, all three patterns have been observed, so there is no single consensus on the effect of breakfast on body weight. For example, one randomized trial found that the energy loss from breakfast cannot be fully compensated by the insignificant increase in energy intake at lunch and dinner (Levitsky & Pacanowski, 2013); another randomized trial, however, found no statistically significant difference in daily energy intake when breakfast is skipped (Kobayashi et al., 2014); a 2001-2008 national survey found breakfast consumption, especially the consumption of healthy foods such as grains, cereals, low-fat milk and fruits, to be correlated with lower body weight (O'Neil, Nicklas, & Fulgoni, 2014). Instead of supporting the three models as stated above, it is also hypothesized by some researchers that, the observed effect of breakfast consumption habits on reducing body weight might be better explained by the change in diet style instead of the superiority of a particular breakfast pattern (Dhurandhar et al., 2014; Mc Crory, 2014). Inconsistency in the studies on breakfast and weight suggests that skipping breakfast is unlikely to be a reliable method to lose weight. Instead of relying on skipping breakfast, people should look more at certain scientifically based weight loss plans such as Atkins, Zone, Ornish, LEARN, Weight Watchers and Mediterranean diet, which have been experimentally confirmed to have weight-loss properties (Matarese & Pories, 2014). Hence, people who are willing to lose weight should choose to follow the reliable and evidence-based weight loss plans, not the unreliable method of breakfast omission. To conclude, since there are many well-designed weight loss plans are more effective and more reliable at losing weight, body weight should not be a reason to regularly skip breakfast. 
	Breakfast also has costs, but these costs are generally low as to not shadow the benefits of breakfast. Two types of costs, money and time spent on breakfast, will be discussed. Indeed, in recent years, the costs of traditional American breakfast foods such as bacon and eggs have been increasing (White, 2014), so skipping breakfast might appear to be a good way to reduce daily expenditure. However, as listed in the last paragraph, breakfast omission could lead to increased energy intake later in the day. If more energy/food is taken in, then more money would have to be spent to purchase the food. In this sense, the money saved from skipping breakfast would be spent on lunch or dinner, so there is likely little or no net gain of wealth. The time spent in consuming breakfast cannot be avoided without skipping breakfast. Yet, in practice, breakfast is usually accessible to individuals under a variety of settings, including those who eat at dining halls, in apartments, or at fast food stores (M. Singleton, personal communication, October 13, 2015), so the time challenge is not impossible to overcome. In addition, breakfast consumption leads to an increased sense of well-being (Defeyter & Russo, 2013), and the sense of well-being can increase productivity. This increase in productivity might in turn make up the time lost from consuming breakfast, thus reducing the time cost of breakfast. Combining these pieces of information with the benefits of breakfast as listed in former paragraphs, it can be concluded that, although breakfast costs time and money, these costs are not constraining enough to justify for skipping breakfast. 
	Current evidence suggests that breakfast consumption has multiple health benefits, and no evidence has been found to support a health consequence of regularly consuming breakfast. Despite ongoing controversy, the meal is examined to have positive impacts on several human health factors without a negative impact, and the time and money spent in breakfast are manageable. Hence, regular breakfast consumption is worth its cost, and should be followed as a standard practice to improve health. 
