ENG 106-i 
Argumentative essay final draft 
Polyphasic Sleep as an Alternative Sleep Schedule for College Students 
	Sleeping is an essential activity that allows us to function properly throughout the day. However, college lifestyle has made it difficult for many to maintain healthy sleep hours throughout the week. Numerous factors, such as roommates' loud activities early in the morning or staying up late to complete assignments, could take away the much needed sleep time, and lead to daily fatigue and lowered productivity during the day. The relatively new polyphasic sleep schedule, which split one core sleep into several more flexible segments, might just be the solution to this age-old problem. It is more flexible, provides more effective awake time, and the transition period should be manageable with the right understandings and disciplines in most cases. 
	Firstly, the polyphasic sleep schedule encompasses numerous sleep schedules, providing flexible choices fitting for different daily schedules. The commonly acknowledged schedules include biphasic cycle, everyman cycle, dymaxion cycle and uberman cycle (Janes, 2014). The biphasic cycle, which consists of five to six hours of sleep at night and a 1. 5 hour long afternoon nap, could be fitting for people who like to stay up late at night and wake up early in the morning. Everyman cycle, which consists of a 3. 5 hour of core sleep and three 20 minute naps spread across the day, could be fitting for people who would like extra awake hours without the strict napping routine required by a more extreme cycle. The Dymansion cycle and Uberman cycle both consist of four to eight naps throughout the day, totaling to only two hours of sleep. These two cycles are suitable for people who are willing to follow a very rigid schedule in order to have significantly more awake time. Unlike monophasic sleep, which essentially forces one to dedicate eight hours at night to sleeping on the bed, the polyphasic sleep with these different sleep cycles could allowed one to explore new schedule for classes, assignments, extra-curricular, work, and activities, and take full advantages of the flexibility college lifestyle offer. 
	Secondly, not only can polyphasic sleep provide more awake time during day, those awake hours are also just as effective if not even more than those of normal monophasic cycle. There are numerous experiments and studies which support this claim. For example, in one experimental studies conducted by a group of cognitive science researchers from Universit Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium and University of Geneva, Switzerland in 2015 found that a post-lunch dip in body temperature decreases mental flexibility in well-rested monophasic sleepers. This study also found that a short afternoon nap, such as one in polyphasic sleep, could improve cognitive performance (Slama, 2015.) 
In addition to experimental studies, a field study of real life scenarios also supported the effectiveness of polyphasic cycle. A field study of long distance yacht race conducted by Dr. Claudio Stamp in 1989 found that all top six competitors and 85% of all competitors slept in polyphasic cycle. The statistical analysis of correlation test between the competitor's mean sleep episode duration and the mean true speed of yachts also showed a significant negative correlation-or in other word, the extreme polyphasic cycle generally provided more effective awake time and thus resulted in better performance during the race. 
However, just like monophasic sleep, polyphasic sleep also has its own cons. While it could provide cognitive benefits and more awake time once adapted, adapting to polyphasic sleep is difficult; and the more extreme the cycle is, the more difficult it is to adapt to. In cases of extreme cycle, some people's bodies might just refuse to adapt to the cycle entirely. Essentially, adapting to polyphasic sleep is rather simple but requires a lot of willpower. While medically approved guides are very scarce, there are still many online guides based on successful attempts. In his online blog "Personal Development for Smart People," Pavlina (2014) stated that the keys to adapting are to not oversleep and to avoid caffeine and alcohol. Enduring sleep deprived state during the transition state would definitely be very challenging, but it should not last longer than a few with strong discipline. From my personal experience, it only took one week to adapt and get accustomed to biphasic sleep cycle. 
Adapting to an extreme cycle, such as uberman cycle, on the other hand, is very difficult and could result in many serious health problems if adapt incorrectly or if that person's body could not handle it. In one anecdotal article, the author Stoddard Grant from Men's Health journal explored and tried the Uberman polyphasic sleep cycle, and in short, it did not go well for him. By the fourth day after he started adapting the cycle, he "began to get canker sores in [his] mouth, the beginnings of a cold, and an outbreak of pimples," (Grant, 2008, para. 6). After enduring through for three weeks, he began to get used to the cycle and was able to stay awake throughout the day. However, he started losing weight despite eating about 30 percent more food, which according to his doctor, was due to increased activity to maintain body temperature-a sign to stop the cycle. There are many who could handle such extreme schedules, but he was not one of them. Despite this risk, as long as one does not force his or herself too hard to adapt an extreme cycle and strictly follows the routine, adapting to polyphasic cycle should be relatively safe and problem-free. 
The polyphasic sleep cycle might still be relatively new, but there are still many number of studies and stories to support its effectiveness. Ultimately, it is one's own daily schedule which determines the best sleep cycle, but if consistently getting eight hours of sleep every night is not convenient, giving a polyphasic cycle a try could be noticeably beneficial with its greater flexibility of sleeping and napping time, and more effective awake time during the day. 
