P5D3 
27 April 2015 
Using Substitutes for Smoking Cessation 
	One day, I was talking to a friend who is a smoker in a process of quitting, and found her holding a pen-looking object between her fingers and inhaling and exhaling deeply a great volume of smoke without any burning smell. When I asked what the object is, she answered that it is an e-cigarette, which is another type of smoking methods that helps reducing the amount of nicotine intake and leads to smoking cessation. Then, for seconds, I thought it would not be harmful to the body so everyone can smoke without taking health risks. Contrary to my thought, my friend failed to stop smoking but still asserts that smoking substitutes including e-cigarettes are better than smoking regular cigarettes. However, I believe that smokers should not use cigarette substitutes to help smoking cessation because they are only going to harm. 
	One type of smoking that most people think is safe is hookah because they are made with herbs or fruits and filtered through water. But in fact, they are more harmful than smoking cigarettes. "According to a World Health Organization advisory, a typical one-hour session of hookah smoking exposes the users to 100 to 200 times the volume of smoke inhaled from a single cigarette" ("Types of Tobacco," n.d.). Smoking hookah will give smokers the worse influence on health. Just like regular cigarettes, they still contain tar, carbon monoxide and are nicotine addictive. Moreover, smokers can share and spread hepatitis, herpes, flu or other contagious diseases from using the same mouth pipe with others (Jain, n.d.). Switching to hookah does not make smokers stop consuming nicotine and other harmful substances and there is also risk of infections. 
	Another type of smoking product that people use in hope to reduce the damage to health and aid smoking cessation is herbal cigarettes. What makes them look healthier than traditional cigarettes is that they are mix of natural products of herbs and tobacco. They may contain less tobacco plants but they deliver nicotine and produce tar, "one of the main cancer-causing agents of regular cigarettes" (Jain, n.d.). It is also found to contain the same chemicals as tobacco cigarettes. Even if the cigarettes is completely made out of natural herbs, it will still produce chemicals and tars in the process of burning and inhaling of the smoke in the mouth. Do not ever assume that the product is healthy because it is called natural or herbal. 
	The type of smoking product that is most frequently recognized and used to induce smoking cessation is e-cigarettes. The reason why so many people think that they are better than cigarettes is that they are advertised to be safe to use and aid in quitting smoking. However, this is not true. In terms of safety, inhaling vapor with foreign substance into the lungs can damage mouths and throats in addition to the lungs. There are fears of fire and explosion of the batteries and vapor initiator. Also, just like regular cigarettes, e-cigarettes are used to deliver nicotine, which will still make hard to quit smoking. What makes e-cigarettes worse for smoking cessation is that it mimics the hand-to-mouth motion of regular smoking cigarettes. Therefore, they cannot be used to help quit smoking (Jain, n.d.). 
After all these opinions in mind, a contradicting research is conducted by Siegel, Tanwar and Wood to investigate the effectiveness of e-cigarettes for people trying to cease smoking cigarettes. Through this research it was found that more than half of respondents reported that they reduced nicotine use, and nearly half of them said they have tried quitting smoking for a period of time after trying e-cigarettes. However, there are limitations to this study. The respondents cannot represent all smokers who have tried e-cigarettes and their responses are not entirely trustworthy because there is no biological and chemical proof that they have stopped smoking (Siegel et al, 2011). Also, there are so many other research papers that say that substitutes of tobacco products are not better than typical cigarettes and do not aid in smoking cessation. <Name>, <Position>, claimed that she has seen enough research on hookah and e-cigarettes that they are not at all healthy alternatives (personal communication, March 23, 2015). 
All the different types of smoking products described above have similarities. Just like cigarettes, they all can be addictive with nicotine, contain many harmful chemicals and can actually prevent smokers from quitting because they will make the smokers engage in other smoking behaviors. Therefore, all of them are not good substitutes for cigarettes. Instead of those, exercising, drinking lots of fluids, mediating and relying on nicotine therapy will be the best substitutes for cigarettes. 
Reference 
Jain, M., (n.d.). Providence Health Plan. Retrieved from https://healthplans.providence.org/fittogether/find-your-fit/prevention/quit-tobacco/smoking-alternatives/ 
Siegel, M.B., Tanwar, K. L., & Wood, K. S. (2011). Electronic Cigarettes As a Smoking-Cessation Tool: Results from an Online Survey. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 40(4), 472-475. 
Types of Tobacco Products. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.ct.gov/dph/lib/dph/hems/tobacco/tobacco_products.pdf 
[Type text]0[Type text]0[Type text] 
3 
SMOKING 
