P5d1 Argumentative Essay 
April, 14 2015 
Phone should be allowed to use in aircraft 
	In my opinion, I think phones should be allowed to use in the aircraft. At least, all current evidence suggest that almost every flight has a mobile phone and electronic device is opened, and the plane didn't fall down from the sky. For the convenience of life, I think to use mobile phone on the aircraft is appropriate and necessary in the future. 
	In the Los Angeles International Airport, the plane was going to take off. There is a familiar voice "please turn off all electronic instruments". There was a guy called Alec Baldwin, he appeared in the famous show "30 Rock". He was holding his own mobile phone for a long time, and he refused to put his phone down. Baldwin was immersed in the world of a scrabble game called "Words with Friends". Flight attendants tried repeatedly discouraged him. He still refused to put down his mobile phone no. Baldwin was sent out of aircraft under the watchful eyes of people in aircraft. Why we need to turn-off our phones in the airplane? Time back to 1991. Some pilots and flight attendants gave feedbacks that electronic equipment will affect the aircraft navigation system. Electronic equipment may interfere the communication between cockpit and the ground. The US Federal Communications Commission has issued a ban immediately. Although this provision has been widely accepted by the public, but in the civil aviation industry has a lot of controversy. Over the years, Boeing and the discovery channel and other institutions took a lot of experiments. But until now, still did not find any evidence to prove that the mobile phone can produce any notable effect on the communication between air and ground. USA Federal Aviation Administration has just said, the wireless signal of electronic devices "may" interfere with flight operations. With the experiments that Boeing and other institutions took, it is a visual display of the mobile phone has no effect on the aircraft. 
	According to my interview with a Doctor who <position> . Doctor told me that there is interference when you don't shut off your phone. At that time, I think we should turn off our phone when we get into the aircraft. Because I think it does have certain security risk if we don't shut down our phone. But I found that phone is able to use when you get up to ten thousand above the ground. Because there is none connection between phone and ground station. FCC thinks there is no interference when aircraft fly up to ten thousand. Most airline in the U.S. allow people to use phone during the flight now. That's an excellent initiatives for people who take the airplane. 
	From my research, there is an article called "Investigation of spurious emissions from cellular phones and the possible effect on aircraft navigation equipment". I know the signal that aircraft uses is 118MHz band, but the domestic GSM mobile phone uses is about 900MHz band, the frequency of the WIFI signal is even higher. They are very different, they could not interfere each other in theory. These results indicate that antenna of aircraft systems like VOR, LOC, VHF, GS, and GPS would not detected the emissions of the phones used in this study (CDMA-cellular, TDMA-11 Hz, TDMA-50 Hz cellular and PCS, GSM, and DCS-1800). This study indicates that radio frequency emissions from the phones tested in this study (CDMA-Cellular, TDMA-11 Hz, TDMA- Hz Cellular and PCS, GSM, and DCS-1800) should not interfere with the avionics systems examined in this study. From this study, it further proved my opinion. Phone should be allowed to use in the aircraft. 
Base on the article "Electromagnetic interference assessment of CDMA and GSM wireless phones to aircraft navigation radios". 4 GSM and 4 CDMA devices were in the test. Signals generated in the test can be summarized as the cellular/ PCS phones, Bluetooth, IEEE802.11b, IEEE802.11a, FRS/GMRS radios, and other portable transmitters. Final result showed that none of those 8 wireless handsets tested would interfere with aircraft. This evidence tells us most of mobile phones we have would not interfere the aircraft. This also prove my opinion. 
	I think phone does have interference on aircraft, but it is very small and negligible interference All evidence shows that there is no accident directly caused of mobile phone interference. I believe the ban about phone using in aircraft will be removed one day. 
Sources 
"Investigation of spurious emissions from cellular phones and the possible effect on aircraft navigation equipment" From 
"Electromagnetic interference assessment of CDMA and GSM wireless phones to aircraft navigation radios" 
"Interview Report" 
"Alec Baldwin thrown off AA flight at LAX for 'playing game' on phone" From New York Post 
