Yu-Shen (Kevin) Lin 
P5D1 Argumentative Essay 
April 15, 2015 
The Academic Benefits of Learning to Play an Instrument 
It shouldn't be a surprise when one hears that learning to play a musical instrument is beneficial to the learner. In fact, many parents strategically put their child/children through musical lessons because they believe in that saying. Over the years, researchers and scientists have come up with enough evidence and data to support this claim. Learning to play a musical instrument not only allows children to perform better in a classroom setting, it also enhance their development in many aspects. As a result, parents should encourage children to learn to play a musical instrument because it improves children's academic performances. 
	Learning to play a musical instrument can improve learners' academic performances because it helps students to focus in a classroom setting. According to Northwestern University's Auditory Neuroscience professor Nina Kraus, "children who play an instrument have more advanced neural processing," and they "demonstrate better concentration and attendance." Since playing an instrument requires player to simultaneously focus on notes, duration, volume and a lot more, students subconsciously learned how to avoid distraction. This skill allows students to concentrate during academic lessons and thus advance their learning. Moreover, as Sarah Spark mentioned in her article, the data from Society of Neuroscience indicates that instrument learners are superior in "decision making, memorization, and the speed which they process information," all of which are essential to student's academic success. As those areas strengthen, students could demonstrate better academic performances than those who do not know how to play an instrument. Therefore, children should be encouraged to learn to play an instrument because it enhances their ability to concentrate and thus improve their academic performances. 
	Learning to play an instrument is not an easy task. While learners are utilizing their brains to focus on different areas, they are in fact training their brains. Consequently, learning to play a musical instrument can improve learners' academic performances because it boosts their brain development. According to Sarah Sparks, while learners are playing their instruments, plasticity is created to benefits "brain regions responsible for cognition and behavior," as well as to advance their "multitasking and ability to create new ideas." Since musicians are free to express their music as they preferred, they are trained to think outside the box with given information and encouraged to approach situations differently. When utilizing these skills in a classroom setting, students are more likely to outshine peers without instrumental trainings. Moreover, Melissa Locker suggested that after learning to play an instrument, the high school graduate rate increased to "93%," which dramatically contrasted with the previous "50%" dropout rate in a low-income neighborhood. These significant statistics highlight the efficiency of instrument learning, which further suggest that children should learn to play an instrument because it will result in greater academic success. 
	As an instrument player, it is very common to be asked to memorize the music. While doing so, learners are gaining a critical skills required for further academic success. Hence, students should learn to play an instrument because it will increase their memory capacity. When learners are memorizing the music, they are not simply memorizing the notes, but also the emotion and quality associated with it. During the time, learners improve upon their "visuospatial and nonverbal memory." Students may easily utilize these skills in a classroom setting to memorize not only what's on the board, but also the meaning and related information. As Diane Cole expressed in her article that learning to play an instrument can "help defend memory loss and cognitive decline," she indicated that learning to play an instrument can as well strengthen one's memorizing skills. With a more advanced memorization, one may succeed relatively easier than those who don't play an instrument. As a result, children should learn to play an instrument because it can improve memorization and thus improve their grades. 
	Although learning to play a musical instrument has numerous benefits, it is common for one to think that the process of learning to play an instrument is extremely time consuming and may potentially be detrimental to children's academic performance. While it is true that it takes time and effort to learn an instrument, the data and results suggested how an instrument player, not how a good musician, can gain all those benefits. In fact, according to Diane Cole, over 6 months period, those who have received music lessons already demonstrate better "verbal fluency and planning ability." Even if one decides to spend more time learning to play an instrument, studies have shown that the amount of time of which one dedicates to learning to play an instrument is positively correlated to the benefit gained. In other words, the more one practices, the more benefit one gets. Furthermore, learning to play an instrument can also improve student's time management. Purdue University's Glee Club director William Griffel suggested that musical organizations usually require students to maintain a certain GPA in order to stay in the group. While it is not acceptable to sacrifice grades for rehearsals, students are forced to balance music and school. Griffel also claimed that the Glee Club has one of the highest overall GPA in the university. Consequently, learning to play an instrument will improve students' time management, which will ultimately improve their academic performances in the long run. 
	As a result, parents should encourage their children to learn to play an instrument because it helps them concentrate more, boosts their brain development, increases their memory capacity and gives them better time management. All these benefits are essential to one's academic success and will improve their academic performances. Parents should think of ways to get their children to start learning an instrument early, so they can receive the benefits as soon as possible. 
