Sex is a big question mark. It is something people will talk about forever. In every aspect sex has some type of controversy, especially in the ongoing debate on the legalization of pornography and the illegal act of prostitution. Not many know that this is one of the top agreements in governmental debates ever. The ongoing battle of why pornography is legal and prostitution is not. But with the past and recent debates both subjects come with a lot of its own history, that will be mentioned and come to great significance for both sides for the argument.
When thinking about trades that have been around for century's prostitution is not one that normally comes to mind yet it is claimed to be one of the oldest of professions. People have very different views on the subject of prostitution. Since Mesopotamian times, attitudes surrounding prostitution have evolved and changed many times from a celebrated necessity to a cultural evil (Berry 1). To the known world prostitution is defined in simple terms given in the dictionary. Prostitution is the act of or practice of sexual intercourse for money (dictionary 1). A woman allows the use of her body by any man, without any distinction, for a payment. For as long as modern society has existed prostitution has been around. Research on prostitution was developing during the nineteenth century, and Dr. William Sanger was one of the foremost researchers on prostitution during this period ( Berry 1). Sanger examined the identity of the average prostitute and sought to understand why she had turned to that lifestyle. He found that the majority of prostitutes were in their late teens or early twenties; they were usually illiterate, poor and from broken families (Bullough 243). Economic poverty, societal disgrace, and lack of education were also causes of girls turning towards prostitution; they had a limited number of options available to them. Sanger asked several prostitutes why they had turned to this way of life and they gave a number of different reason ( Bullough 245). Many gave the reason that Sanger believed were the problem. Many girls dropped out of school, or their families couldn't provide for them and their siblings. And yet prostitution was still not and still is not legal, even though many women found it the only way to support themselves and their families.
You may not be surprised to hear that there's little hard information to be had about the dawn of porn. But while data about 'the first' porn books, photos and films (Colb, 2005, 1). Pornography is a genre that involves the representation of sexually explicit scenarios and is created for the purpose of bodily arousal. The genre employs a particular set of conventions to distinguish "soft-core" from "hard-core" porn (Microfinance,2006,1). This is where the roles of how pornography and prostitution show their differences. The history of moving-image pornography can be traced from the earliest moments of filmmaking, including single-reel exhibitionist films common to primitive silent cinema. Over time, pornography moved from being exhibited in men's clubs (as stag films) to developing more elaborate narratives movies (Microfinance,2006,1). Pornography with its past history and its present history, debaters exclaim that it's morally right that pornography consist of actors and actresses and pornography, it's a form of art with the body, and is only able to be bought by those who are old enough to view the films. And utterly should be removed from the debate of comparing its work to prostitution.
So what is the difference between prostitution and Pornography? How can the government legalize one but not the other? What is their reasoning of doing so? These questions are commonly ask throughout the United States. Since pornography is legalized why should prostitution not be. This topic has been one of the most debating topics in history. From past to present arguments still continue to rise and prostitution has yet to be legalized. Whether or not prostitution is illegal and pornography is legal, both have a great impact on our society. They both can ruin our society with the rituals of exibiting sexual exploitations to young childern and teens. And also cause more teens getting into both industries and make sex trafficking more aparent.
Legalizing prostitution can lead to many problems in society if the government decides to legalize it. Yet so many ask why prostitution is not legalized. Well legalizing prostitution can lead to sex trafficking, it does not protect children and young adults form getting kidnapped from their homes and put in the sex market of prostitution. Along with that, it does not protect women or protect women's health (Raymond, 2003,1). Legalizing prostitution does not dignify as proper work or dignify women in the sexually or mentally. Meaing women are being used and battered in this type of employement. It simply dignifies the sex industry, and promotes for more young women to get caught up prostitution (Raymond 2). With young woment getting more caught up in prostitutions, makes the rate or sexually transmitted diseases higher and also the drop out rate of school in women higher. Overally prostitution ruining and giving our society a negative outlook.
Legalizing or decriminalized prostitution industries is one of the root causes of sex trafficking. Sex trafficking is very common but not many people know about it, because it is a underground process that is kept away from the public eye. Sex trafficking is a modern-day form of slavery in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such an act is under the age of 18 years (NHTRC,2000,1). Acts meaning sexually favors or overally kids under or of the age of 18 become sex slaves. The Us government leaves no doubt as to where it stands on legalizing prostitution : " where prostitution is legalized or tolerated, there is a greater demand for human trafficking victims and nearly always an increase in the number of women and children trafficked into commercial sex slavery" ( Kelly, Millman, Nussbaum, p28). With this said, legalizing prostitution seems far from the government's mind. In current research, some efforts to prohibit prostitution have increased sex workers risks to the danger of trafficking. This seems to come about because lawmakers neglected to consult the people the laws are designed to protect (Kelly, Millman, Nussbaum, 28). When lawmakers fail to connect with the people, no one outside of the government does not know what is really going on. So things will continue in the way they are going because the law may be written but not enforced.
Legalizing prostitution does not protect the women who are actually employeed in the prostitution market. In Coalition Against Trafficking in Women International, a cooperation that is specifically for helping women who were brought into sex trafficking, have conducted interviews with almost 200 victims of commercial sexual exploitation (Raymond 4 ). In the study of all the interviews indicated that prostitution establishments did very little to protect women. In another interview CATW interviewed women who were first brought into prostitution to sex trafficking and almost 80 percent of women suffered from physical violence from pimps or buyers (Raymond 5). The violence women are subject to, is neither healthy and very abusive on their minds and bodies. The health of women is the most important aspect of why prostitution should never be legalized. Prostitution does not mandate health checks and certify that women are safe from any type of sexually transmitted disease. By the no checkups women are able to get HIV, AIDs, or some type of STD without any public health advisory ( Raymond, 6). Many women are incapable of getting chekcups because either they cannot afford or their boss will not let them take time to get checket. Ultimatley this hurts women significantly and 47 percent of women who are in the industry of prostitution said most men expect sex with a condom and to follow that 73 percent reported that men offered to pay for more sex without a condom. and 45 percent of women reported they were abused if said they would not have sex without a condom (Raymond, 6). With the industry of prostitution, women's health is at a maxim risk, of all different types of diseases and this why it has yet to be legalized. The government overall making the right decison, for if they were to legalize prostitution more women would become postive of diseases, and transmitting them to others, making our society a unsafe and unhealthy place to raise children and live.
In the argument for women, the legal right to be free from torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment is recognized by most nations and is internationally guaranteed. In prostitution woman are constantly tortured and repeatedly raped. The security of a woman is a fundamental law in society (Mac Kinnon, 1993, 13). Prostitution is to a point were women's personal security becomes jeopardized. Even though many may say women put themselves in this situation, more than half the time that is not the case. Women are forced to become a worker in prostitution. And being forced alienates the right of privacy which is included among civil rights (Mac Kinnon, 13). Therefore in the argument to legalize prostitution would mean to legalize cruel and inhuman acts breaking law, while trying to make new ones. The man barrier of why legalization is not in sight or mind.
The depiction of erotic behavior intended to cause sexual excitement, material that depicts erotic behavior and is intended to cause sexual excitement. Many say pornography differs from prostitution, just because one is legalized and one is not. Pimps also known as the owners of prostitutes, would argue that pornography has the same, history and background of prostitution. Both prostitution and pornography have customers who pay, pornography started films are photos in brothels, what is exactly is different (Allen, 2001, 512). Some say the process of filming and distributing pornography does not compare to the violence and the humilation that comes with prostitution. But then some say pornography can lead to child porn in magazines, but mostly on the internet (Colb, 2005, 1). This a true statement, perverted mean and sometimes women will convience young children to do things that children should not be doing. Such as posing naked and doing sexual adult activities, that will be posted on the interent and be distibuted as child porn, and pornography does lead to explicit things like that.
Why is pornography legalized? Pornography is legalized because of the case the People verse Freeman. In this case, Harold Freeman hired and paid actors to perform in an erotic film, that was called, "Caught from behind, Part II". In this film, the hired actors and actress were paid to do explicit acts including sexual intercourse (Colb, 3). The state of California charged him and convicted him of, "five counts of pandering, also defined as procurement of persons for the purpose of prostitution under California penal code" (Colb 4). During the trial the court found that even if Freeman paid the actors to have intercourse that he was still not engaging in prostitution. Those who are against pornography feel sex on television and being paid for it is a form of prostitution, even though the courts decision said other wise. The court rejected the state's argument on two grounds. One, statue did not fit, he was not committing prostitution and two, if it did it would not run with the first amendment (Colb, 5). The first amendment states basically that committing a crime is committing murder, having sex, is not a against the law (Colb, 7). So otherwise stating, the prosecution did not have a sound arguement because the law and the court was not working with them. Under no circumstances with what freeman was doing was consider prostitution.
Arguments arise from the prostitution side stating that, all prostitutes do is have sex for money, just like actors and actresses in pornography. So why is that not illegal, but pornography is. Well, the court expresses that pornography on film and in photography is a way of expressionism, in not a derogatory way (Mackay, 2001, 72). Artists argue it is an expression of self and human nature of sex, many argue that its derogatory towards women and women's rights. But yet pornography still slips around the law and finds itself still legal. Those on the prostitution side still argue that the forms of pornography are more extreme than prostitution. For example, pornography can be turned into child porn and children are being forced to do things they do not want to, and be publically humilated (Allen, 2001, 523). From young ages starting at four years old, young boys and girls are being put on the internet fully exposed to pedophiles. Many say that pornography is on the same criminal level as prostitution ( Mackay, 73). That if both still gain some type of compensation from the act of sex is still a criminal act, and no matter under what law should be illegal.
For those who balance the thin line between both pornography and prostitution and those who do not believe in either, feel that it tears society apart (Allen, 2001, 525). Many do not know that pornography is a 8 billion dollar a year business with close ties to organized crime. Along with prostitution is just as much with enclosed money, within the industry. Where money is enclosed, even prostitutes do not see where the money is going. Distributors of pornography battle the prosecution of being called prostitution. For as long as they work in a;"serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value, the first amendment protects them" (Colb, 2005, 1).
With all facts of both parties aside, the law still rises above it all. The law has not yet legalized prostitution, and probably will not. The law's point of view is, "why should the distinction between pretending to have sex and actually having sex, make a difference, from a legal standpoint?" (Colb, 2005, 1). Voice of America, a organization that speaks out against pornography, would argue that pornography and prostitution put together has developed its own society in this country. They have grown so big. that the government no longer knows the dirty details that might actually go into the cooperation, that in fact pornography just may be the same as prostitution now. With each of these setting their own rules and standards, so what is the difference? Maybe there is no difference, one just is able to get around the law and the other still goes on but has yet to legalized.
Reference
Allen, A. (2001). Pornography and Power. Journal of Social Philosophy,32, 512-531.
Novemember 17, 2008, from http://writ.news.findlaw.com/colb/20050810.html
Barry, Kathleen. The Prostitution of Sexuality. New York: New York University Press,
Bullough, Vern and Bonnie Bullough. Women and Prostitution, A Social History. New York: Prometheus Books, 1987 1995. Colb, S. (2005). The legal line between porn and prostitution. CNN, 1.
Coopersmith, Johnthan. (2006). The Changing Nature and Image of Computer based Pornography. History and Technology. (p.1-25).
Feingold, D.(2005). Human Trafficking. Foregien Policy.
Kelly, p., Millman, N., Naussbaum, M.(2008). Should prostitution be Legalized.
Mackay, Judith. (2001). Global sex: sexuality and sexual practices around the world. Sexual and Relationship Therapy,16, 71-82.
Prostitution Research and Education.(2003,March). 10 Reasons for not legalizing prostitution. Retrieved November 17, 2008, from http://www/prostitutionresearch.com/laws/000022.html
Microfinance, Kiva. Pornography.2006. recieved from: http://www.filmreference.com/encyclopedia/Independent-Film-Road-Movies/Pornography.html
The Future of freedom Foundation.(1998,September). The legalization of Prostitution. Retrieved from http://www.fff.org/freedom/09981.asp
