Families Deserve Paid Paternity Leave
Renee Copp
Belknap
English 105
April 20, 2009
Paid maternity leave has been given to women for several years. Now many people feel as though men should be given the same option as women and be paid to take time off from work following their child's birth. There has been an argument for some time now that these men deserve equal rights as parents. So why shouldn't mothers and fathers have the same rights to their children? Each parent is just as important in their child's life as the other, times have changed and children do not just depend on their mothers anymore. Actions can be taken to help new dads spend more time with their kids.
Paternity leave allows an expectant dad to take time away from work at the time of the birth (or adoption) of his child. In the United States there are currently no laws to help fathers get time off to spend time with their new family. In Sweden parents get 480 fully paid days parental leave. 6 months are reserved for the mother, and 6 for the father, they can be used as and when the parents want until the child's 8th birthday, and in France plus other countries some dads are required to take a certain amount of leave after their child's birth (Rigoli, 2007). This policy in Sweden has a huge impact on some of the most important years in a child's life. Unfortunately as of right now there is only one act in the United States that is in effect to help fathers take leave. Defense Authorization Act helps fathers in uniform obtain some time off to be with their new family. The Defense Department also decided that it would be best to leave it up to each service branch to determine how to handle the new policy. Fathers in uniform can now take time off to be with their newborn. The military branch has chose to give them up to 10 days off for the birth of their child. Navy Petty Officer 1st Class Luis Lujan said he's happy with the new policy. "Every little bit helps. It is kind of cool that the Navy is pursuing this. With both of my kids, my wife had a Caesarean section. It is considered major surgery, so she was not very mobile. It helps that I don't have to dip into my earned leave for the next child." Even just having 10 days makes a huge difference in the difficult and complicated process of having a child (Abramson).
In the United States parents can technically get 12 weeks unpaid parental leave. Does this really make sense to people? Unless parents have saved a large amount of money there needs to be some sort of income after having a child. Many things need to be purchased for a baby plus both parents need to make sure they are taken care of also. Let me give you an idea of how much an infant can really cost. First you need a cradle, bassinet, or crib for your baby to sleep safely this plus sheets, waterproof mattress pads and two light blankets this will cost about $350. 00 to $400. 00 at a reasonable price. Then a dresser/changing table can cost you about $200.00. Next you need a car seat and stroller and for a good deal you can get those for about $250.00. Now you need the essentials like diapers clothing, formula, bottles, wipes, bathtub, soap, shampoo, well I guess I'll end there you should get the
point by now. An average middle-class family spent about $10,220 on a baby during the first year of life, according to a 2005 report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (Polder). Now do you still believe that a family can live off no income? After seeing those numbers I do not think a family could comfortably live off even one full salary. Having a new family is such a wonderful and happy part of your life that should not scare anyone into not spending time with their family.
Although money is a leading concern I my biggest worry is when fathers do not have any time away from their job at all. New mothers who have just given birth cannot get any help from their husband or boyfriend if they are at work for 8-10 hours a day. Many mothers like Navy officer Luis Lujan's wife must go under the knife and have a Caesarean section caused by complications. This is a major surgery that can leave the mother in pain and immobile for a few days or even weeks after the birth. How is a mother supposed to take care of a new born child, them self, a husband, household, and any other kids they may have? I interviewed a family friend named Keathanne Wright who had serious complications during her pregnancy that left her bed ridden for a few weeks. Two days after labor her husband had to go back to work and she was left at home with a two day old baby. She was fortunate enough to have family in town that could take time off of their own jobs to care for her and the baby. During the interview she admitted that even though she was extremely grateful for the family that cared for her, she really just
needed her husband by her side and not having him there left her slightly depressed.
This can happen to many new mothers, studies have shown that 50% to
80% of all new mothers experience the baby blues or postpartum blues. This is a mild case of depression that usually occurs 3 to 4 days after giving labor. The baby blues can be caused by physical changes in a women's body, fatigue, or anxiety over baby. This type of depression will usually last up to two weeks or even longer (Epigee). Now imagine yourself in her position, unable to care for herself and her child alone while being depressed and without the one person that she needs. Is this really acceptable?
"Children are more likely to suffer development problems if their fathers do not take paternity leave or spend enough time with them when they are very young, according to an analysis of thousands of babies born around the turn of the millennium (Sacks)." Later on in the article Sacks states, "A report published today by the Equal Opportunities Commission and based on research tracking 19,000 children born in 2000 and 2001 found emotional and behavioral problems were more common by the time youngsters reached the age of three if their fathers had not taken time off work when they were born, or had not used flexible working hours to have a more positive role in their upbringing." Children need their fathers in their lives, from infancy into adulthood. There have been many studies proving that a father's presence in a young child's life has a huge impact for the child's future. Children are like sponges they absorb everything around them whether it's negative or positive. Events and actions that are shown during the child's first few
years can have an enormous impact on the child both emotionally and physically later on in life. As proven from these quotes having both parents in a child's life is
extremely important and can have serious effects in their children's upbringing. Not only do employers and bosses need to realize this but all parents need to know this too.
Earlier this semester I interviewed a new dad asking his views on paternity leave. Working dad Benjamin Wojack said, "I feel as though it is extremely important to be there during the labor and after the baby is born. No mother should have to do this alone and I would never want to leave my wife's side during this complicated yet amazing time in our lives. I was able to talk to my boss a few months in advance to prepare the company for my absence. Everything worked out nicely and I was able to take four weeks off after my daughter was born and let me tell you, those four weeks were the most changeling and remarkable four weeks of my life." After talking with Wojack I wondered if I could actually find a father that would opt out of spending time with their newborn and after speaking with 8 fathers each said that they would love to be offered paternity and agreed there should be a law in place making this happen. Now this shows to me that if we were able to not only have a law supporting paternity leave but also a law to insure dads and his family that there was no way he could lose his job then most fathers would absolutely take leave.
While speaking with these fathers I brought up to each one that I feel as though times have evidently changed too rapidly for the U.S., and most seemed to
agree. Parenting has changed in the world and the U.S. needs to catch up. With little public debate, the United States has chosen a radically different approach to
maternity leave than the rest of the developed world (Geissler). Today is 2009 not 1956 it is not just the mothers job to care for the kids anymore, we need to move on. When we see countries with paternity plans like Sweden, France, and Iceland it puts us into shock. In 2004 nearly all-Icelandic fathers used their entitlement to three months off work on 80% of their salary (BBC). How did we get so off track from everyone else? Are Americans really all about money and job stance, is that as deep as we can get? Well yes, dads spend more time with their kids then 50 years ago but not the time that is really necessary. Every little moment counts. Once your child is 14 and you realize you should have been there more when he or she was younger, you will have regrets, and who wants that? Fathers can cook meals do, laundry and change a diapers just as will as any woman so what's stopping our country from letting this happen? Some people are stuck, their feet so far down in the sand that there is only one way, its all the mothers responsibly men just earn the income. This era of stay at home moms and working fathers has been revolutionized. Come on America lets move forward and take the plunge! We need to convince people that men are just as capable as women to care for a family; it is now a team effort.
And last but not least men are idiots for not taking paternity leave. According to Nathan Hegedus a recent and soon to be father of two, "It's the chance to nap. The chance to ponder NBA playoff match-ups or your favorite baseball team's pitching rotation. The chance to hang out on a bench in the sun with a friend,
but really it's all about naps." Hegedus spent six months on paternity leave with his daughter last year. And will soon be home with his son for nine or ten months next
year. "Yes, parental leave is hard, often grindingly hard. It is harder than any job I have ever had. It is likely harder than Barack Obama's job. All the diaper changes, all the food planning and cleaning and crying. You never get a moment to yourself. Your work day lasts all day, yet when I was on leave with my daughter I got a nap almost everyday." It should not be career killer, it's only a few months then go back to work and begin where you left off. But of course here in America it is. "Still, dude, it is your own fault you are not trying to change the culture, you are not making noise about your wife getting maternity leave, and you certainly are not fighting for your own time with your kid. It is a cultural paradigm reinforced by jerks." Says Hegedus.
Man, did he just take the words right out of my mouth, make some commotion about what you want and what your family deserves. If you want it, get it. It's your right to fight to be at home spending time with your child. Oh, and to get a few naps in.
So now is the time where we need to take action. If you are a soon to be father whether your wife is having a baby or you're planning on adopting, speak with your boss a few months in advance. Employers need to be aware that paternity leave is becoming more popular each day. Show them how you feel about spending time with your baby and what you need from them to be able to accomplish this. All you need to do is compromise. It may take some hassling but it is worth it, just ask the fathers that are home now. I'm sure most will agree that it is hard but always
rewarding in the end. Begin with what you think is fair to ask of the company, I would suggest asking for four weeks off 80% salary paid this is a reasonable offer. You could begin the negotiation even stronger ask for four weeks fully paid, you never know what could happen. Offer to work from home so you can still be an asset to the company. Work it out, you and your family will be so grateful in the end.
