Keeping America's Minimum Legal Drinking Age
In 1984, the federal government enacted the Uniform Drinking Age Act, after the number of motor vehicle accidents involving teenagers increased when the drinking age was lowered. This act required all states to set a minimum legal drinking age (MLDA) of 21 or risk losing a significant portion of their state's federal highway funds. This was done based on evidence that a lower drinking age resulted in more traffic injuries and fatalities among youth, citizen advocacy groups pressured states to restore the minimum legal drinking age to 21. In this paper I will discuss the reasons that the minimum legal drinking age should be kept at 21 are that the driving crashes increased when the MLDA was first lowered in the 1970's, the introduction of younger teens to alcohol will rise, and the refutations of lowering MLDA arguments. These reasons are why the America's minimum legal drinking age should remain as it is.
When the MLDA was first lowered between 1970-1975, scientists began studying the effects of the lowered MLDA. Several studies in the 1970s found that motor vehicle crashes increased significantly among teens (Cucchiaro etal, 1974; Douglas et al, 1974; Wagenaar, 1983, 1993; Whitehead, 1977; Whitehead et al, 1975; Williams et al, 1974). With this evidence that a lower drinking age resulted in more traffic injuries and fatalities among youth, citizen advocacy groups pressured states to restore the MLDA to 21. By 1983, 16 states had increased their MLDA's back to 21 forcing the federal government to enact the Uniform Drinking Age Act because of teenagers that would travel across state lines to purchase and consume alcohol. With traffic collisions being the number one killer of teens, 28% of those fatal crashes were alcohol related. "Each year, approximately 5,000 young people under the age of 21 die as a result of underage drinking.and about 1,900 of these deaths are from motor vehicle crashes" (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism). In America, a teenager can receive a driver's permit at 15 and a license at 16, if we lower the minimum legal drinking age there will be a definite increase in teen drinking and driving as was seen after states lowered the age law in the 1970's.
Most teenagers graduate high school when they are 18 years old. By lowering the minimum legal drinking age, alcohol would be even more accessible to younger kids. These teenagers will have friends and siblings that are younger than they are that they associate with a on a day to day basis. It is not very hard to figure out what would happen then. The practices and behaviors of 18 year-olds are particularly influential on 15 to 17 year-olds (Alcoholpolicy MD, 2005). If 18 year-olds get the affirmative to drink, they will be modeling drinking for younger teens. A higher MLDA results in fewer alcohol-related problems among youth, and the 21-yearold MLDA saves the lives of well over 1,000 youths each year (Jones et al, 1992; NHTSA, 1989). An increase in teen drinking will negatively affect teenagers developing brains, which are still maturing in the teenage years, and that reasoning and judgment are developing well into the early to mid 20s not fully formed until age 24 (Giedd, 2004 and Treatment Research Institute, 2008). During this development, alcohol negatively affects all parts of the brain, including coordination, motional control, thinking, decision-making, hand-eye movement, speech and memory (Narcotic Education Foundation of America, Drug Abuse Education Provider of the California Narcotic Officers' Association, 2002). If the minimum legal drinking age is lowered, these functions we use countless times a day will be damaged before they are fully developed. These functions of the brain are one's that we need to lead a more successful life, if teens damage them before they are matured, just think of all the opportunities that will be missed.
America is one out of four countries to have an MLDA of 21. These other countries include: Fiji, Indonesia, Palau and the Solomon Islands. Many argue that we should have an MLDA of 18, the same as the U.K, France, Spain and other well developed countries. Regarding Europeans and alcohol use among youth, research confirms that Europeans have rates of alcohol-related diseases (such as cirrhosis of the liver) similar to or higher than those in the U.S. population (Single, 1984). Also, research showed that young people in the UK reported some of the highest levels of teenage binge drinking, drunkenness and alcohol-related problems in Europe. With these problems within European countries that have MLDA's from 16-18 years old, changing American age laws will more than likely result in the same predicaments that the UK faces.
Some arguments that are made for lowering the drinking age include the "Forbidden Fruit" argument, the "Teach Responsible Drinking" argument, and the Age of Initiation argument. The Forbidden Fruit argument claims that lowering the drinking age will reduce the allure of alcohol as a "forbidden fruit" for minors and will therefore make a person drink even more when they turn 21. But research suggests that lowering the MLDA will replace the "forbidden fruit" with "low-hanging fruit", which means that alcohol will be more available to a younger population. Also, early legal access to alcohol is associated with higher rates of drinking as an adult, which is the opposite of what they are claiming for this argument.
The next argument is the "Teach Responsible Drinking" argument, which argues that lowering the drinking age will encourage young people to be responsible consumers of alcohol, which will then give the minor an idea of tolerance and learn to drink under supervision. There is no evidence that "indicate that kids will learn to drink responsibly simply because they are able to consume alcohol legally at a younger age. Countries with lower drinking ages suffer from alcohol-related problems similar to those in the U.S." (alcoholpolicy, 2005). While some young people will learn to be tolerant, many teens will not learn to do so.
The last main argument is called the "Age of Initiation" argument. This point argues that at age 18, kids can vote; join the military, sign contracts, and even smoke. Why shouldn't they be able to drink? I am sure that this is a question that many young people ask themselves when they turn 18. If they legally become an adult, why not make their own decisions about what they can and cannot do. Well this is because "Ages of initiation indeed vary -- one may vote at 18, drink at 21, rent a car at 25, and run for president at 35. These ages may appear arbitrary, but they take into account the requirements, risks, and benefits of each act." (alcoholpolicy, 2005). I agree with this because you have to consider an appropriate age for a person based on an age groups maturity level. I'm sure most people would not consider a 20 year old for a position as president; some things are better left for the experienced and matured.
In conclusion, it is essential to keep America's Minimum Legal Drinking Age as is by keeping an awareness of teenager's reaction to alcohol in modern American society. We do know that the United States' experiment with an 18-year-old drinking age did not work the first time due the increase in alcohol related motor vehicle collisions when the MLDA was first lowered, the introduction of younger teens to alcohol will rise, and the problems other countries face are reason to put the idea of lowering age laws, why try it again? Experience, research and logic show why the MLDA of 21 is appropriate for the United States. So why fail twice?
Work Cited
Alcohol Policy MD.com. American Medical Association Office of Alcohol/Drug Abuse. 12 Apr. 2009<http://www.alcoholpolicymd.com/pdf/MLDA_Fact_sheet.pdf>.
Barnett, Nancy P. "The minimum drinking age debate." The Brown University digest of Addiction Theory and Application 27 (2008): 8.
Martinez, Julia A., Miguel A. Munoz Garcia, and Kenneth J. Sher. "A new minimum legal drinking age (MLDA)? Some findings to inform the debate." Addictive Behaviors 34 (2009): 407-10.
Rosenfeld, Carolyn. "The public debate over the MLDA." Alcohol Health & Research World 20 (1996): 216.
Wagenaar, Alexander C., Eileen M. Harwood. "Public Opinion on Alcohol Policies in the United States: Results from a National Survey." Journal of Public Health Policy 21 (2000): 303-327
"UK teenagers among heaviest drinkers in EU | Society | The Guardian." Latest news, sport, business, comment and reviews from the Guardian | guardian.co.uk. 20 Apr. 2009 <http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2009/mar/27/teenage-drinking-alcohol-binge>.
Welcome to the Official State of Iowa Website. 11 Apr. 2009 <http://www.state.ia.us/government/odcp/docs/Underage%20Drinking%20Facts% 208-27-08.pdf>.
"Hot Topic: Minimum Legal Drinking Age | Higher Education Center for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse and Violence Prevention." Higher Education Center for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse and Violence Prevention | Welcome to the Higher Education Center for Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse and Violence Prevention. 11 Apr. 2009 <http://www.higheredcenter.org/services/assistance/topics/hot- topic-minimum-legal-drinking-age>.
