Yamamoto, Kenji
ENG105 Erica Jones
Extended Argument
28 April 2009
No Child Left Behind Leaves Every Child Behind
Education is a hot topic in today's economic climate. As the politicians look to balance budgets and cutback function, it is extremely important to remember the value of education. In 2001 the United States Congress passed the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act, setting new standards for public education and providing direct federal funding to public school systems from kindergarten up to the twelfth grade. The Act focuses on four primary areas in public education: stronger accountability for results, more freedom for states and communities, proven education methods and more choices for parents. Unfortunately, in the bipartisan bickering that occurred before the passage of the law, the politicians of the United States Congress lost sight of their intended goal. The No Child Left Behind Act, born of the best intentions, has a crippling effect on the United States education system, resulting in the narrowing of educational focus, an over-emphasis on standardized testing and the crippling of analytical and critical thinking in today's students.
The No Child Left Behind Act reauthorized the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), which is the primary federal law governing education in the United States of America. The NCLB Act requires all public schools to create and administer a state-wide standardized test every year to its enrolled students (United States, Public). This allows the state and federal government to evaluate the effectiveness of school districts and individual schools, facilitating the ability to hold institutions accountable for the educational effectiveness of their curriculums. Each state is given the flexibility to create, administer and maintain their own test, provided it meets the federal standards (United States, Public). NCLB, through state tests, allows for positive reinforcement of proven education techniques, providing funding or systems and methods that produce positive results. The results are released to the public as well as the federal government, allowing all to see exactly how each school is performing.
The No Child Left Behind Act focuses heavily on state-wide standardized tests in order to evaluate the performance of school districts. Given the numerous problems with standardized test, this is a gross mistake. Standardized tests consist of a collection of multiple choice questions that are given to each student, asking the student to select the correct answer. This is a very poor method of evaluating student learning (What's Wrong). The tests reward the ability to answer simple, superficial questions that do not require the ability to think or be creative. Additionally, many standardized tests have in built biases, especially when it comes to students of different socio-economic backgrounds. Take a simple relations test for example. A question asks a student to relate a teacup to the following objects: a saucer, a table, a car and a fork. An upper or middle class student may relate teacups to a saucer, as cups go with saucers. However, a lower class student may pick the table, as they don't have saucers and at meal times cups go on tables. A homeless student may pick a car, as their family lives in a car and meals are had there. While simplistic, this example demonstrates the core problem with standardized tests. Children are not standard; they come from wide backgrounds, different religions and different family dynamics. To assume that none of these things affect the way a child learns and thinks is detrimental to the educational evaluation process. Evaluating all school districts across the state with one standardized test produces inaccurate and imprecise results, results that the NCLB Act relies on.
Perhaps the most harmful effect the No Child Left Act has had on the educational system is the requirement for improvement on standardized tests in order to receive federal funding. This is damaging and wrong in a number of ways. First, it makes the school districts compete for federal funding. The act effectively makes students compete against each other for educational funding, a modern day fight for survival. Of all of the funding provided by the NCLB Act, fifty percent is automatically given to schools qualifying for Title I status under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) (United States, Public). The remaining fifty percent is given to school districts that post the highest improvements in their state-wide standardized assessments. This means that even if a school district shows improvement, the amount of funds received will not be as great as a neighboring district that posted a higher improvement (United States, Public). Proponents of the NCLB Act claim that this is a constructive cycle, positively reinforcing. While this may be true, it also punishes those that fail to do well by not giving funding to the districts that do poorly. The United Nations considers education a basic human right and here in the United States, supposed leader of the free world, students, teachers and administrators are forced to compete to receive educational help from their own government.
This competition for federal money under NCLB has several secondary but equally as severe side effects. In order for schools to better their statewide scores, it has become common for schools to pass their failing students and to hold back their excelling students (Mc Kenzie). This allows the district to post better results to the federal government in the hopes of receiving more money under NCLB. States have also lowered the bar for failing in school and on the state tests. In 2005, Arizona made a fifty-nine percent a passing grade on the statewide Arizona's Instrument to Measure Standards (AIMS) in an attempt to bolster scores (Kossan). Even with the lowering of the passing score and an additional two attempts at the test, only sixty-one percent of Arizona's high school class of 2006 was able to successfully complete the AIMS (Kossan). Additionally, the effort to improve the performance of students on standardized tests has resulted in administrators and teachers switching their teaching styles and curriculums in order to help students pass these standardized tests. The NCLB Act only requires the states to test reading, writing and mathematics, so this is now what schools are spending a bulk of their time and energy focusing on, effectively triaging their funding and time to where it will do the most good . Unfortunately, this is ravaging the broader education of students across the nation. A recent survey by the Common Core Group found high school students to be "stunningly ignorant" in the areas of civics, history, literature and science (Dillon). Again, supporters of NCLB offer weak support for these cuts. They consider the ability to read and write more important that other, less important programs to justify these cuts in curriculum. While the ability to read and write is indeed important, education is more than just letters and numbers. Students need to be taught history, to avoid mistakes already made. Students need civics to understand the world they live in and their rights and responsibilities in it (Schiesel). Literature, art and music are equally important in the education of children and young adults.
Yet another side effect to the No Child Left Behind Act is the result of teachers triaging their time to get students to pass the test. This is commonly referred to as "teaching to the test" and results in the crippling of students thinking skills (What's Wrong). As mentioned before, standardized tests overly focus on simple, superficial questions that require analytical and critical thinking skills. Teachers spend a majority of their time working example questions from the tests in an effort to help students become familiar with the test and achieve higher scores on the state standardized test. This focus is extremely detrimental to the development of students' critical and analytical thinking skills. Real world math examples, such as story-based problems and critical thinking assignments are being left aside in favor of multiple answer questions (Klein). This also effects student motivation and learning ability. A large portion of high-school students are now graduating without the ability to self-educate or self-direct. They have gone through a bulk of their education career where instructions and answers were handed to them and all they had to do was select the appropriate letter or number. This deficit in their education is beginning to show at the collegiate level. Succeeding in college requires students to think critically, to address problems analytically and draw their own conclusions. Many incoming college freshmen have never had to do this. The drop out rate from colleges has increased in recent years up to forty-six percent (Associated). This disturbing trend cannot be allowed to continue.
With all of this competing and extreme cuts for federal funding, one would expect the overall benefit from the money to correlate well with improvements in school performance. Sadly, this is not the case.
Figure 1 shows the amount of federal funding provided for education from the year 1990 to 2003. While the amount of federal funding has increased steadily over the years, reading scores for fourth graders has not. This is the something promised by NCLB's creators, an improvement in reading, writing and mathematics. The Act was signed into law January of 2001 and after 2 years of operation Figure 1 shows performance in fourth grade reading to be negligible. NCLB supporters put great stock in how the Act has boosted federal funding, but ultimately this funding is turning out to be a waste of money. Obviously the lack of funding is not the biggest problem with the United States public education. All of the aforementioned problems being introduced into the education system are being inflicted for no significant improvement in student education and progress. The system and tax payers are paying to inflict more problems on public education for no gain.
The No Child Behind Act was suppose to bring reform and improvement to public education. Its name succinctly describes the overall goal: to make sure that each and every child in the United States received a proper education, not one child missed. Unfortunately, the public school system is now failing every child. Federal funding is now contingent the performance of school districts on standardized tests, tests shown to be woefully inadequate at evaluating student learning. Academic focus has shifted in an effort to improve scores, resulting in the loss of a broader education in civics, history, literature and science. This shift results in teachers revising methods and curriculums to meet the standardized tests, stunting student abilities in critical reading and writing, crippling their ability to perform outside of the structured school setting.
It is very clear that the United States public education system needs help. The No Child Left Behind Act has shown that it isn't working and something needs to be done about it.
