Imagine a pristine beautiful beach with the waves gently crashing on a brightly colored reef with thousands of unique fish and sea life creating one of the most beautiful environments in the world. This is all at risk because reefs are rapidly being destroyed by overexploitation, pollution, and a worldwide increase in ocean temperatures. If we let this negative process of reef degradation continue we will face a large number of negative economic impacts in Tourism, science, fishing as well as environmental issues such as erosion
`Coral reefs are one of the most diverse and important ecosystems in the world only second to the tropical rainforest in amount of unique species and only slightly behind them. Coral reefs have continuously been on this planet for over 200 million years making them one of the oldest ecosystems in the world. (Sammon, 18) Coral reefs contain more than 25 percent of all Marine life even though they only make up a very small part of the ocean about . 2 percent.(Exploring, 1) The amount of plant and animal life that they contain especially algae help regulate the ocean because they consume a large amount of c02. Reefs provide nations with food and is some countries main source for protein. Reefs also stimulate local economies through tourism and fish trade. They provide us with many ingredients that are used for medicine and provide an invaluable costal wave break. If the Coral reefs are destroyed many peoples' lives would be ruined and some countries would fall into poverty.
Coral reefs have been under great strain and pressure since the industrial revolutions of the world. Increased human pressure along with natural disasters are threatening and destroying reefs beyond the point of possible recovery. "According to the Nature Conservancy, if destruction increases at its current rate, 70% of the world's coral reefs will have disappeared within 50 years."(Reef 333) This is a very fast rate that we cannot allow to continue and already much of the worlds reefs are being destroyed. "General estimates show that approximately 10% of the coral reefs around the world are already dead with another 60% considered to be at immediate risk."(Living Mirrors 132) The impact of humans on the worlds coral reefs is immense, the threats are indirect such as global warming and also very direct such as dynamite fishing.
Humans are constantly expanding and building our culture, and as we continue to build we continue to kill the local reefs. As developers put up hotels and resorts on the coastline near reefs they completely destroy the entire ecosystem. Workers from these building projects remove the costal mangroves which are primary breeding and feeding grounds for many reef fish. (Reef,332) Mangroves also absorb massive amounts of nutrients and sediment thus not allowing it to reach the reef. If the mangroves are gone reefs start to die from the lack of light, due to the high turbidity. This also causes an algae bloom, which is a massive increase of green algae that suffocates and kills the Reef. Builders in the Indo-pacific Ocean even use underwater bombs to destroy the reefs just so they can use the lime stone floor that the reefs have created. In Sri Lanka, for instance, many of the roads are made from blasted coral. Although new developments are nessacary for the local economies to expand many of the developments only profit from tourism. The main reason that people visit these areas of the coast is for the reef. So while expansion is good for the economy it must be done in a way to protect the environment so tourists will continue to visit. Along with the human expansion comes pollution, in many cases massive amounts of pollution. With humans altering the landscape it increases the amount of nutrient and sediment rich freshwater runoff. This along with sewage runoff is greatly increasing the amount of nutrients and threatening the reefs by causing coral bleaching.
Coral bleaching is the whitening of corals due to the loss of Zooxanthallae. Zooxanthallae is an algae that live symbiotically with coral and can provide up to 95% of energy to the corals. Bleaching can be caused by a great number of things and is incredibly destructive to the reef. Bleaching can be caused by an increase in temperature, corals can only thrive in a small range of temperature from 25 to 29 degrees Celsius. If the temperature goes above this for an extended period of time bleaching occurs. Experts are predicting the by 2100 the average temperature of the oceans will rise by 2. 5 degrees Celsius. (Sammon, 108) More direct causes can be from a power plant discharging hot water into the ocean thus raising the local water temperature. Bleach can also be caused by disease, excess shade from a building or an algae bloom, by increased sedimentation from runoff, Pollution, and changes in salinity in the ocean from fresh water runoff. Without proper levels of Zooxanthallae corals are weakened and will most likely die shortly after the bleaching event occurs.
Another major threat to reefs is overfishing and the use of destructive fishing methods. The world's reefs with the exception of a few protected marine parks are being greatly overfished. The annual catch of fish reaches up over 500,000 tons of fish. (Sammon, 106) This amount of fish being caught has a great negative effect on reefs and doesn't even account for fish killed but not captured. There are many very destructive fishing practices being used by the world's countries. Practices such as the use of long lines, which are fishing lines up to twenty miles long, are very destructive. These lines not only catch valuable fish such as marlin but also dolphins and manta rays which are killed and thrown back into the ocean. Another destructive practice is the use of Drift nets that can be the Size of Manhattan. These nets catch everything that is floating or swimming in the area in some cases these nets can kill an entire population of a fish. These methods of fishing destroy the local ecosystem due to the fact that they kill so many fish that are not even used. Also the catch is not documented so there is no way to keep or enforce a quota.
Perhaps the most destructive commercial fishing practice is dynamite fishing. Dynamite Fishing is when hunters throw a bomb into the water that creates a shock wave that causes the internal organs of fish to liquefy killing them instantly and making them float to the surface. There are many problems with this method, not all of the killed fish float to the surface so some are not captured. Also the bombs not only kill the hunted fish but also all other living things in the area wiping out entire fish populations. The bombs can destroy huge sections of the reef by exploding and shattering them into hundreds of pieces. According to many marine scientists, almost 75% of all coral reefs in the Philippines have been destroyed by dynamite fishing. Although these are effective ways to fish in the short term they are devastating in the long term. Some countries cannot afford to not exploit the reefs but if they continue then they will no way to survive without the reef. Developed countries need to help provide these countries with a better infrastructure so they can support themselves without exploiting the reefs.
As Souvenirs from the coral reefs become more popular in the form of fish for aquariums shells and decorations more of reefs are being intentionally killed. Commercial companies have gotten into the business of collecting coral and Reef fish for selling. With the increase of the demand for souvenirs from the reef such as coral or aquarium fish many companies are resorting unhealthy practices. Companies are killing the most beautiful corals and leaving the unhealthy dying corals ultimately killing the entire reef. Also these companies are resorting to using cyanide poison fishing. Divers will squirt harmful chemicals into holes in the coral and paralyzing the fish that live there.(Sammon 106) The problems in this lie in the fact that the fish captured by the cyanide usually die a few months after they are captured. This increases the demand for aquarium fish unnessaceraly and causes more destruction.. Along with this is the fact that the chemicals stay in the water and pollute the surrounding area thus killing more fish and coral.
With reefs in their current weakened state many natural disasters are starting to wreak havoc on the reefs and destroying them very rapidly. Hurricane and typhoons are now breaking and shattering a significant amount more of the reefs then ever before. These storms are bringing an increased amount of rain and increasing the amount of runoff and sedimentation, reefs used to be able to recover from these out breaks if they were harmed at all but now they are killing the reefs. Human influences are increasing the amount of outbreaks of The Crown of Thorns (Acanthaster Planci) which is a starfish that eats coral. A large outbreak of them can completely destroy a reef system. Outbreaks of A. Planci have been linked to increased amounts of human development and increased Eutrophication. Because of the impacts that humans are having on the reefs Natural disasters are now killing much more of the reefs.
The coral Reefs of the world provide humans all over the world with goods that would otherwise not exist or be available. The continuation of coral reef destruction will lead to many economic short comings and cause many people in many countries lots of problems. Some countries in the south Pacific and Caribbean economies would virtually be nonexistent without coral reefs.
The fact of the matter is that reef fish bring in millions of dollars and feed millions of people in the local economies. Coral reef fisheries consist of about 12% of the annual fish catch and pacific islanders depend on reefs for food as they get over 90% of their total animal protein from reef products. Fish bring in a substantial amount of money to the local economies; Australia's reef fisheries generate upwards$125 million annually and Southeast Asia's bring in about $2. 4 billion. Reef fish are also very valuable fish for aquariums and just the fish bring in about $40 million a year plus all that goes along with aquariums. (Collard, 125) Although exploiting the reefs like this is bringing in many benefits there is a large social cost that goes along with it. A study in the Philippines shows that using good reef management and practices instead of just exploiting them could in the long run bring the countries up to 50 times more money and the reefs would still be viable. (Collard, 125) If the practices of killing the reefs continue then this whole industry will be destroyed in a matter of years.
Reefs provide a hugely popular vacation destination and host an incredibly large tourism industry. In many small island countries tourism is the largest and most of the time the only sustainable section of the economy. In the Caribbean tourism sectors from coral reefs, provide about 15% of all employment in all sectors of the economy. Tourism provides the Caribbean economy with over $56 billion and is expected to provide up to$107. 3 billion by 2017. (Coral Reefs and Climate Change) The Great Barrier Reef alone produces over $4. 26 billion annually. Reefs are also responsible for making the super fine coral sand that tropical beaches consist of. Without reefs many of the Tropical developing nations would stand no chance of ever becoming developed and rising out above the poverty line.
Coral reefs may be the largest sources of protection of coastal shorelines acting as a wave break they greatly reduce the impact of hurricanes and tsunamis on coastal regions. Coral Reefs are incredibly valuable to costal development of tropical regions and in Indonesia the destruction of Coral Reefs was responsible for about $1 million per kilometer of coast line over a 25 year period. (Coral Reefs and Climate Change) In Southeast Asia coral reefs played a huge role in reducing the damage caused by the 2004 tsunami that hit there. With out reefs spanning the coasts of the tropics nations would have to spend millions of dollars building and constantly repairing levees and other wave reducing devices which would still not be as effective as the original reefs.
Many very important Pharmaceuticals are found or created from coral reef products. Anti-inflammatory and anti-coagulating drugs and substances as well as many ingredients for medicine that is used in treating AIDS and types of cancer are found in the reefs. For example "there is a toxin in a sponge that can attest breast cancer." (Sammon, 108) Scientists believe that many cures for diseases including most cancers will come from reef life. If reefs are destroyed or species go extinct then we will loose all the medicine we get now plus the possibility of finding many more cures.
If we are to save and restore the state of the world's reefs we must as a world population come together and fight the forces working against Coral Reefs. We must change the way we fish the oceans by using less destructive methods and by putting in place strict fishing laws that limit the amount of total fish catch. We must change the way we build on our coastlines by being aware of our actions and not destroying precious parts of the environment for building when it could easily be avoidable. Perhaps most importantly we must fight to slow down and eventually stop the effects of global warming and end unnatural climate change. In order for this to happen the developed nations need to help the undeveloped nations by providing them with the knowledge and the infrastructure to be able to care for the Reefs. People that are starving have little care that they are killing the reefs in order to feed themselves and there family. They need to kill the reefs in order to survive and also they have no idea that what they are doing will have a large environmental and economic impact on the world. The developed nations need to provide them with the needed infrastructure to be able to feed themselves and have money to care about the environment. The more money one has the more they can care about and spend on environmental protection.
The solution cannot be accomplished by any one person or group of people but it must be done by all people around the world and will most likely take government help. We need to privatize and make the protection of reefs profitable for all people in order to conserve the reefs, not have some people exploiting them and killing them.
You may think that living in America means that you don't have to worry about coral reefs because they are not on our coastlines or because you don't believe that the loss of coral reefs will affect you. The truth is that the loss of coral reefs will cause huge economic and environmental issues throughout the world not just in the Tropical Reef yielding areas of the world. Reefs provide us here in the U.S. as well as all other nations many benefits and goods that would be otherwise unavailable to the world. You may also feel that there is nothing that you as an individual can do to help protect the world's reefs but in fact there are many things you can do. If you are a diver or even plan to go diving in your life make sure that you do not anchor your boat to the coral as anchors can break off chunks of the reef. When you dive make sure that you don't touch the corals or collect any shells all shells have the possibility of having life in them still. Even if you don't dive or live hundreds of miles away from any ocean you can still help. Make sure that all your waste water is being properly treated and visit your local water treatment plant to find out. Don't use chemically enhanced pesticides as they will eventually end up in a water source. Make sure that if you buy marine fish that they are harvested in an ecologically safe manner. You also can support reef friendly businesses that are doing there part in reef conservation. If we all do our part in conserving the precious resource that is the reef then it will be around for many generations after us to enjoy.
