Zachary Koszarek
Extended Argument
Eng 105
The Bomb: Reasons, Race, Russians
The United States official involvement in World War II began with a day that will live in infamy for Americans and ended with a day that will be forever remembered across the globe. Although WWII began in September of 1939 with the German invasion of Poland the United States attempted to remain neutral and remained out of the fighting until two years later. The event that pulled America into the war occurred when in the words of Franklin Delano Roosevelt himself, "The United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces by the Empire of Japan,"(www.americanrhetoric.com). World War II was truly a war that spanned the globe. According to www.worldwariihistory.info, an information site giving a complete history of WWII, it consisted of two major theatres, the Pacific and European, and two alliances. These alliances were the Allies, consisting primarily of the United States, Great Britain, France and the Soviet Union, and the Axis Powers, consisting of Germany, Japan and Italy. At the time of America's entrance into the war the outlook for the Allies was bleak. Germany controlled most of Europe and was pushing deep into the Soviet Union while the Empire of Japan had a stronghold on the many islands of the Pacific and the Chinese mainland. (www.worldwariihistory.info). The fortunes soon turned for the Allies due primarily to America's industrial capacity and fighting spirit, but there another movement being carried out behind closed doors. This movement would come to shape human history and was started with a simple letter.
In August of 1939, weeks before the inception of the war in Europe, President Roosevelt was delivered a letter from revered scientist Albert Einstein. Einstein had written, at the request of many other scientists, with concerns to the recent research on fission change reactions. He explained that these reactions, if harnessed, would be capable of creating extremely powerful bombs and that the German scientists were currently working on this technology. With this information before him, Roosevelt proceeded to establish a committee composed of civilian and military representatives to begin study on this new technology. The developing of this into a weapon became known as the Manhattan Project. (www.cfo.doe.gov) This top secret project would take six years to achieve its objective and its culmination would be the dropping of atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. The bombs lived up to the hopes and fears of those who worked on them and destroyed both cities and killed hundreds of thousands of people. A lot of questions have arisen from the decision to drop those bombs over six decades ago. These inquiries include whether the bomb was necessary or moral to use. Instead of debating whether the use of the atomic bomb on Japan was a correct decision, a new question has arisen. What were the reasons behind the decision to authorize all this destruction? The immediate reason that emerges is that the bomb was dropped in order to end the brutal and deadly war. While there is no contention that the bomb did not end the war and save American soldier lives, it was merely a secondary effect. Instead the real motivations were racism and more importantly the new threat of then ally the Soviet Union.
Myths, Mindsets and Military Necessity
The atomic bomb is marked as the catalyst for the surrender of the Empire of Japan and the ending the Pacific theatre of WWII, but was it absolutely necessary for this surrender and corresponding end. One of the most important military officers at the time did not believe so. According to Ronald Takaki, author of the book entitled Hiroshima: Why America dropped the Atomic Bomb, supreme commander of Allied forces in the Pacific General Douglas Mac Arthur was never consulted about the dropping of the atomic bomb. When he was informed of the decision forty-eight hours prior to the bombing Mac Arthur was furious. Mac Arthur believed the bombing to be completely unnecessary and was expecting the Japanese surrender any day. (Takaki 4) Perhaps if Mac Arthur had been consulted he could have voiced his beliefs that war was soon to end, or perchance his concerns would have fallen on deaf ears because ending the war was not the primary reason for the bomb. Further proof of this is revealed when examining the surrender that Japan ultimately issued and was accepted by the United States after the bombs, it was no different than one proposed months earlier. Mark Weber in his article for The Institute for Historical Review noticed this in his examination of the bombings. In January of 1945 Mac Arthur sent President Roosevelt a forty page memorandum outlining five different surrender options from high ranking Japanese officials. One of these options was surrender with only one condition, retention of the emperor and monarchy. America rejected this proposal on the basis of an earlier stance that it would only accept an unconditional surrender. (Weber) This meant the war continued and soldiers continued to die. When the dust settled from the atomic bomb Japan's emperor again issued a surrender that included the same condition. Barton Berstein in his article, "The Perils and Politics of Surrender: Ending the War with Japan and Avoiding the Third Atomic Bomb" dissects President Harry S. Truman's deliberation on this proposal that lasted for five days before he finally accepted it. During this five day period Japanese militarists almost triumphed in a coup attempt that would have further prolonged the war. (Berstein 2-3) If Truman would have again been stubborn on the principle of unconditional surrender or the Japanese militarist would have succeeded the war would have continued and America may have been forced to use a third bomb, one that was not even completed. All of this may have happened because Truman's administration could not wait for the surrender Mac Arthur though imminent or accept the identical offer a month earlier.
Proponents of dropping the bomb offer the statement that it saved countless American soldiers lives. This is of course irrefutable because it prevented Allied soldiers from having to invade mainland Japan in another beach landing, the battle that so far had proved extremely costly in both theatres of the war. The only argument against this proposition comes in the numbers of casualties expected. The myth is that in order to take the mainland of Japan would have resulted in over half a million Allied deaths. This myth was further prolonged by Truman himself years later when asked if he regretted his decision. He replied that he made the decision, "to avoid an invasion and thus save half a million American lives." (Takaki 22) This claim is in stark contrast to all estimates available, especially to Truman, at the time. The real number was closer to a 40,000 Allied death toll. (Takaki 23) The reason this half a million deaths myths has been continued is due primarily to the preceding battle of Okinawa. This battle was one of the bloodiest battles of the war and the closest to the Japanese homeland. One school thought is that the closer to Japan, the harder the fighting and therefore the higher the casualties. Instead of this being the reason for the high rate of casulties at Okinawa, it was due to the fact that the island had one acceptable landing zone and therefore had one heavily guarded landing zone. The main island of Japan has a bevy of landing areas that would be acceptable for an invasion and therefore would be more difficult to defend. While it cannot be stated that even the loss of one life is acceptable by anyone, save a ruthless tyrant, compare the 40,000 Allies that would die in the entire invasion to the 80,000 that died in the initial twenty-four hours at Hiroshima, with more to come in Nagasaki and the coming months due to nuclear radiation (Takaki 23-30). Does one Allied soldier life equal two and more Japanese civilian lives? The truth is simply that in this war, in the minds of those in charge, it did.
Racial Undertones
In the spirit of honesty it must be stated, The United States of America has had a problem with racism since long before its inception. It began with Native Americans, progressed to Blacks in slavery, then Europeans immigrating in the late 19th and early 20th centuries and during WWII it was focused on the Japanese. While it was the Japanese government and military who had committed the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor and subsequent atrocities like the Bataan Death March, the American people and even government placed the blame on the Japanese people and even American of Japanese descent. During the time after Pearl Harbor Japanese- Americans where removed from society and relocated into internment camps (Takaki 83). This relocation forced many citizens of the United States to lose their businesses or be separated from families, merely because of their ancestry.
Another example of racism was found in the propaganda provided by Hollywood. During the war Hollywood provided many propaganda films for the general public to both inform them about the war and unite them against the common enemies. In the films concerning the Japanese the racial undertones were especially apparent in the soundtracks. In "An Exoctic Enemy: Anti-Japanese Musical Propaganda in World War II Hollywood" W. Anthony Sheppard review this music. The musical pieces focused on Japanese appearance, customs and religious beliefs. Song titles included, "We're Gonna Have to Slap the Dirty Little Jap" and "There's No Yellow in the Red, White and Blue". The lyrics were imaginatively worse than the song titles. One example was, "A million fightin' sons of Uncle Sam, if you please,/ Will soon have all those Japs right down on their Jap-a-knees" (Sheppard 306). The word 'Jap' became socially acceptable due to this musical propaganda and soon the Japanese people were dehumanized. Once a person or race is dehumanized they become more acceptably discarded.
The greatest example of racism against the Japanese was, like the internment camps, government approved. It was war propaganda. In the heat of war all propaganda can become irrational and untrue, but the propaganda levied against the Japanese was especially nasty. Takaki points out in his book that when comparing the propaganda in the two wars, there was a stark difference. In the European war the Nazis and Hitler were portrayed as the enemy, but never the German people. In the Pacific war it was the entire Japanese race that was portrayed as evil. (Takaki 71) The WWII era propaganda displayed below further illustrates the difference. The anti- Nazi posters take on a much less brutal tone than its counterpart and at least portray the Nazis and Hitler as human. The anti- Japanese posters were notorious for casting Japanese as animals, in this case as rats. This further dehumanized the Japanese and made it easier to justify dropping the atomic bomb on the Japanese people.
Anti- Nazi Propaganda
Vs. Anti-Japanese Propaganda
The Soviet Union: Looming Threat and Concern
By far the largest reason for dropping the bomb had to deal with a wartime ally in the Soviet Union rather than anything presented by wartime enemy Japan. The Soviet Union had become an ally out of necessity more than anything. America had in fact assisted the counter revolutionary force that ultimately lost during the Russian revolution of 1918. So it makes since that the new communist Soviet government was not on the best of terms with America's. According to Truman's daughter his main concern in his first weeks as president, "was our policy toward Russia." (Takaki 6) The Soviet Union offered two unique problems for a wartime ally, how to deal with them during and after the war. In the mind of Truman and some of his advisors, the atomic bomb solved both problems.
The Soviet Union during the European theatre of the war had been a major player in the defeat of Nazi Germany. It had lost many civilian and military lives defending the motherland and ultimately pushing the Nazis back to Berlin. Because of this great sacrifice made by the Soviets they had a powerful claim to the reorganization of Europe when the war finally ended. As Stefan Possony explains in his article, "The Atomic Bomb: Political Hopes and Realities" when the Allied powers met at the Yalta conference to discuss how to reform Europe after the inevitable ending of the war, Soviet Premier Joseph Stalin was immediately reluctant to give up the Eastern Europe his troops occupied to free elections (Possony 156). During the following Cold War, these areas would make up the Soviet Union's Eastern Bloc. Precedent was set, once Stalin has his Red Army in a territory, he was hard pressed to remove them. The fear for Truman was that one Stalin committed his army to the war against Japan, which was set for August, he would have a major hand in dealing with post-war Asia too (Takaki 66). The atomic bomb then provided a quick and definite end to the war before the Soviets could stake a claim. The bomb on Hiroshima was dropped August 6th, two days before the Soviets were set to enter the war on August 8th.
With the Soviet Union quickly turning from ally to enemy Truman also had to assess how to deal with them after the war ended. The atomic bomb seemed to be the perfect bargaining chip. At the time of the Potsdam conference in July of 1945 Truman had two theories on how to utilize the new atomic weapon. He could either share it with the world and attempt to regulate it internationally or he could elect to attempt to keep America's monopoly on the weapon. (Takaki 57-60) It was at this conference that Truman made his decision, he choose to retain the monopoly. He did however tip off Stalin that America now possessed, "a new weapon of unusual destructive force" to which Stalin replied that he hoped America would, "make good use of it against the Japanese" (Takaki 61). Stalin in fact already knew about the bomb and had his scientist working franticly to catch up. The refusal to share it with him expanded his distrust for Truman. Truman was under the belief that even if monopoly plan did not last forever, America would have enough of a head start in the nuclear arena it would be the ultimate bargaining chip, instead that chip ignited a nuclear arms race and a Cold War.
J. Robert Oppenheimer, scientific director of the Manhattan Project, after the first successful testing of the atomic bomb in New Mexico recited the Hindu scripture, "Now, I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds." Jason Pontin in his editorial, "Oppenheimer's Ghost" attempts to make sense out of the person who was so instrumental in the development of the Atomic bomb. Oppenheimer believed that the technology he worked on would be discovered and used by somebody else if he and America did not do it, but at the same time feels a large amount of regret over what he created and even told the Truman later that he felt he had blood on his hands. (Pontin 1) This is what the atomic bomb has become, it is a moral dilemma. America remains the only nation to have used the atomic or nuclear weapon, yet now we threaten other nations attempting to obtain it. Truman and the U.S. government had many reasons for using the atomic bomb on those fateful days in Japan, but the two greatest had nothing to do with military. Rather they dealt with racism, a subject all to haunting in America's past and present, and plans to deal with an ally after the war. Ultimately this atomic bargaining chip Truman believed could be held over the Soviets failed and it brought the world and human civilization to the brink of annihilation. Thankfully cooler heads prevailed, because for the first time ever man has the ability to end itself and that is a dangerous thought whatever the reasons for the first atomic bombs may be.
