Lauren Bupp
1 May 2009
English 105
Extended Argument
The Controversy of Cleopatra VII's Death
Cleopatra is a well-known ancient ruler and pharaoh of Egypt. She was seen both as a goddess as well a human monster. The queen was known for her beauty and deception and was backstabbing towards men. She quite often used her sexuality to her advantage to advance her own success as well as her Egyptian Empire. Cleopatra was both beautiful and smart and is now known as a major component of ancient Egypt today. Her death may always be a mystery because there is no solid evidence to prove either perspective, however, scholars who have researched her death give educated accounts of what happened in 30 B.C. creating a huge controversy today.
Many wonder how Cleopatra VII came into power. Elizabeth Story Donno discusses in her article, Cleopatra Again, how exactly Cleopatra's family came to power. Jones makes it know that Cleopatra was a descendant of Ptolemy I, who was a general of Alexander the Great's army. She was the last pharaoh of the Ptolemaic rulers, ending their reign in 30 B.C. (231-2) Cleopatra and family took on many behaviors of Egyptian pharaohs, including titles and marriage between siblings to ensure royal bloodlines.
Most of Cleopatra's fame today surrounds her downfall and death. Her downfall began with the battle of Actium where Octavian and the Roman Empire began to defeat the Egyptian queen and her husband Mark Antony (181). With the invasion of Octavian and the Roman Empire is what defeated both Cleopatra and Antony. Antony took his own life at the battle in Alexandria. However, Cleopatra's death came about with a bite of an Asp. Today scholars and researchers still debate whether Cleopatra decided to claim her own life, or if someone else should be to blame.
Cleopatra's Death as a Suicide
Prudence J. Jones, in her book entitled Cleopatra: A Source Book paints Cleopatra's death as a tragic love story. After the battle of Actium, Octavian's (Roman) troops moved in to invade Alexandria, Egypt; where both Cleopatra VII and Mark Antony were defeated (see figure 1). Mark Antony attempted suicide under the assumption that his love (and wife), Cleopatra, was already dead when in fact she was not. As soon as Antony learned she was indeed still alive, he ordered his men to take him to her where he died in the queen's arms (181-3). Cleopatra's was left heartbroken and defeated, leaving her with very few options.
Figure 1
Many sources agree that Cleopatra's death was in fact a suicide. The Life and Times of Cleopatra, a book by Arthur Weigall discusses the reasons why the Egyptian queen would want to kill herself. Weigall explains Cleopatra felt there was no reason to go on; she experienced a huge downfall, lost power of her kingdom, was now facing becoming a servant to the new ruler Octavian, and worst of all she lost her husband (415-7). Research shows that many scholars believe Cleopatra VII wanted to die with honor and dignity instead of embarrassment and humility. Weigall believes Cleopatra did end her own life and decided to do so out of desperation to keep honor to her name and out of grief over her husband Mark Antony's death.
So how exactly did Cleopatra the VII die? Michael Grant's book, Cleopatra, verifies that Egypt's queen died from the bite of a poisonous Egyptian snake, known as the Asp. (216) Jones, Weigall, and Grant all paint a similar story about Cleopatra VII. All three sources claim that Cleopatra, after the loss of her kingdom and her husband, had her servants sneak in the Asp in a vase of fruit. She allowed the snake to strike her, spreading poison throughout her bloodstream. Grant explains Cleopatra chose to die of snakebite because that was the least painful form of suicide she could accommodate; also considering appearance, Cleopatra knew this would leave very little destruction to her corpse (218-220). However, scholars question this ancient death still today.
Similar to the belief of how Cleopatra died, Jones, Weigall, and Grant all have doubts about the death. None of the three scholars can one hundred percent confirm that Cleopatra's death was a suicide. Almost all scholars who have researched the death believe Cleopatra took her own life, however; there is a lingering suspicion that the queen could have died at the hand of someone else. Cleopatra by Ernle Bradford explains how no one can know for sure the cause of her death because there is no evidence. Bradford personally believes Cleopatra's death was a suicide, but does not close out the option of murder. (271-5) With desperation setting in, Cleopatra had every motive to take her own life, but despite the motives, murder cannot be completely ruled out. Now comes the question, if Cleopatra VII did not take her own life, then who did?
Cleopatra's Death as a Homicide
Octavian had motive to want Cleopatra dead. Cleopatra Reassessed, edited by Susan Walker and Sally-Ann Ashton explains that Octavian made it known he wanted Cleopatra alive so he could imprison her and make her a slave, it would have caused the most humility to her. (111) However, knowing that Julius Caesar and the Roman Empire once overtook Cleopatra only to have her once again regain power, Octavian had every reason to be anxious and want her dead. The only sure way to make sure Cleopatra VII could never again regain power of her former kingdom.
Although I found no sources that completely support that the pharaoh's death was a murder, I have found sources that really dig deep and question the death as a suicide. The Death of Cleopatra VII, by B. Baldwin really doubts that Cleopatra's motives to kill herself were stronger than Octavian's motives to have her dead (181). Baldwin goes on to say that Octavian wanted to ensure she would never rise to power again, and he knew the only way he could be sure was if she were dead.
Other sources such as Richard C. Harrier in his article, Cleopatra's End, propose the idea that Octavian helped Cleopatra carry out her final wish. Harrier continues to explain that Octavian felt badly after he saw all Cleopatra had gone through and decided to really help her out (63-4). This is a very unique idea because Octavian wanted total destruction for Cleopatra. Harrier brings up the idea that maybe her death ended up being a mercy homicide.
Cleopatra's Tragedy, by L.J Mills disagrees with Harrier. He believes that Cleopatra's death was a suicide, however, he also believes her death was a murder. This might not make sense, but as I learned Mills thinks Cleopatra attempted to kill herself with a different, less poisonous snake, when her suicide attempt failed and Cleopatra was weak and fragile Octavian sent in a snake that would kill her, the Asp.
My Perspective on Cleopatra's Death
After being well informed by many sources about Cleopatra's death, I formed my own perspective on the subject. Although most, if not all scholars believe Cleopatra's death was a suicide with a small suspicion of possibly being a homicide, I personally do not think it was either. The idea that the tragic death was either one or the other was such a simple explanation of what took place centuries and centuries ago.
In my opinion, I strongly believe Cleopatra VII died from a mixture of suicide and homicide. Walker and Ashton made a strong point that Octavian had motives to want the former pharaoh dead. After research, I side with those few scholars who believe Octavian was one who ordered the Asp into Cleopatra's vase of fruit. However, I do not believe that Cleopatra was clueless. I think the queen knew the snake was on the vase and that Octavian now wanted her dead. What would happen next would be in her own hands.
Learning that Octavian wanted her dead, Cleopatra started to have thoughts of dying. I feel that she could have avoided the snake and avoided the poisonous bite; but as she started to think Cleopatra realized how easy things would be if she ended it all. She started to consider her options and realized she truly did want to die. Cleopatra saw it as a win-win situation in my eyes; Octavian would have control of Egypt like he wanted, and she would not have to live a life of a servant and prisoner. With the death of Antony, she felt she had nothing to live for, neither love or power.
I feel Cleopatra viewed this option of death as classy and minimal pain. She would not have to humiliate herself anymore by leaving a gruesome corpse. Personally, it seems that Cleopatra realized Octavian had won. Instead of living a miserable life of shame, she ultimately decided to end it all, and she was able to escape the grief and pain of the loss of Mark Antony. My theory of Cleopatra's death is different and not explained by scholars, but it does make sense because both Cleopatra and Octavian had reasons and motives to want her dead.
Cleopatra's death remains a mystery still today, the ancient 30 B.C. death will always remain controversial due to the lack of evidence. Whether one thinks her death was a suicide, murder, or even something radical such as my perspective, no answer can be proven wrong. Some scholars such as E.E Stoll in his article Cleopatra, have much faith that with modern technology will find a break through and put an end to the mystery (152).
One of the most controversial deaths known to society, Cleopatra will live on and continued to be studied and researched until every option is exhausted. As time goes on, technological advances may prove to have a new break through of what actually happened to Egypt's famous pharaoh. If Cleopatra's death were ever to be completely solved, it would change Egypt forever. Egypt is so mystical and mysterious, if the tragic death of their queen, Cleopatra, were solved, half the mystery of the pyramids and the foundation which Egypt were built upon will be no more.
Bupp 1
