Victor Castruita
English 105
10:20-11: 10
April 16, 2009
WP #5
Child Beauty Pageants
Beauty pageants started in America in 1921 by a hotel owner who wanted to build up his hotel business in New Jersey. He was hoping to get the tourist to stay for longer. They originally started as pageants for adult women only, but later turned into pageants for kids too. In the 1960's the Little Miss America pageant had its start for girls ages 13-17. Then in the late 1960's the child beauty pageants for girls under 12 years old, most similar to what we know started and was first held in Miami.
In these child beauty pageants, the contestants are just the same as the Miss America contestants except for their age. The young girls have to participate in four different categories just like the older pageant queens. The girls have to do an interview portion, talent performance, swimwear portion and an evening wear portion as well.
In order to win its not just about the four categories. The contestants are expected to be confidant and poised when they present themselves to the judges. When participating in the interview portion the girls should show individuality and not the same fake personality the judges have seen several other times. The last thing these beauty princesses should posses is the beauty.
These child beauty pageants are not healthy for little girls. They have many more negative effects than they do positive. The only main defense about why pageants are good is because they earn money for college. All of the reasons for why pageants are bad are a lot worse. These reasons are that the girls become too self-absorbed. The pageants treat these little girls like grown ups. Pageants make the girls be fake. The girls begin to develop body image issues and a lot of the girls are forced to participate. All of these reasons do damage to the girls who participate in pageants.
When young girls are put into pageants they all want to be crowned the princess of all pageants entered. They see themselves as the only girl worthy enough of wearing the big crown and the little miss beauty queen pageant sash. The little airbrushed beauties feel they should be the one on center stage with one arm grasped around a bouquet of flowers as if it were their baby doll they were holding, while waving to the audience with the other hand.
The girls begin to focus too much on themselves and care less about others. The pageant girls feel that all of the other girls are their enemies and they can trust none of them. So this begins to affect the girls with building relationships with the girls who compete with them and just peers in general. Pageants make the girls self-absorbed and think everything is about them.
Pageants are bad for little girls because it makes them feel like its okay to judge people on how they look on the outside. These are called beauty pageants that they do, so in order to win you have to be beautiful. Their parents keep entering the girls into these pageants. If they see that their parents think its okay to be judged on your outside appearance they begin to think its okay to judge others too.
In the pageants the young girls are treated as if they were 21-year-old women. The have pounds of makeup put on them, while waiting for the curlers to be taken out of their hair. Then they add many extensions of hair to make it look like they have thick long beautiful hair. Then right before they walk on stage the girls slip in their flippers, these fake, to perfect and to white to be real teeth. They make them up as if they are going to the inaugural ball and then to a day at the Cancun beach for spring break. The girls go out on stage in front of the judges and audience in a beautiful gown that seems to have been shrunk from the adult's section to fit these young girls. For another portion of the pageant they walk on stage practically showing all of their skin. They're parents put them in almost non-existent swimwear.
These stage moms and dads are exploiting their young daughters. They have them almost naked, parading with a fake smile around stage. In the audience the parents don't know who is watching these innocent little girls. There may be one, two maybe even three or more pedophiles out in the audience just looking at their little girls. Having these pageants is almost like child porn for these pedophiles. The stage parents just keep giving their daughters for the pedophiles to keep on enjoying.
All of the hair and makeup are not the only things that make the fake pageant queens. The pageant queens are also made up of fake responses, fake personalities and a fake smile. By being placed in these pageants by their parents they just become a fake person.
During the interview portion of the pageant the girls have to answer a question. All of the girls have spent several weeks practicing what to say if some of the common questions are to be asked. When these questions are asked during the actual pageant the girls already know what to say and that is the answer they've practiced. The answer that they practice isn't even something that they come up with by themselves. The answer is one their coaches tell them to say because it's what the judges want to hear.
Just recently during the Miss America Pageant the runner up was asked if she believed that same sex marriages should be allowed in all states. The contestant stood confident on stage and said what she believed on this question. She said that marriage should be between one man and one woman. People are saying that this answer she gave cost her the crown. She stated where she stood and did it confidently but still lost because in order to win these beauty pageants you have to give the judges what they want you to be, not who you are.
Many of the girls develop body issues. They are not comfortable with who they are and want to be better. All of the pageants make the girls notice the issues that they have with their body. It makes them begin to think that their thighs are to big, their arms are flabby, their belly isn't flat, they're whole body just isn't good enough. When really their body is just fine. Many of the girls develop anorexia, bulimia, or other eating disorders as a young girl or grown women. The girls can begin to think that they are fat because they're not winning. If some girls see their friends or sisters entering the pageants they still might even be affected. They may think they're not skinny or pretty enough for their parents to put them in the pageants.
These young girls might even think that they are ugly if they don't win all the pageants they want. The pageants they entered are called beauty pageants. So they will think they're not pretty and that's why those other girls win. Even when they win they may still believe they are ugly when they are themselves. When they enter the pageants they get all the makeup, extensions, and chippers put on them. They win these pageants as a complete different young girl than who they really are. They look nothing like what they usually look like on a normal day. These accessories that make the beauty pageants win make the little girls think that they aren't pretty enough to win a beauty pageant as their natural self.
A lot of people believe that the tiny pageant queens are forced to do these pageants by their parents. This is true on all of the documentary shows on TV the little girls are always crying and saying they don't want to practice, they don't want to do the pageant. However they always end up at the pageants because of their parents.
If you watch the show Little Miss Perfect you notice that all of the moms are the ones that have their young girls doing these pageants. When you see the moms you will notice that all of them are far from looking like former beauty queens. They are all fat, short and ugly women. These moms seem to be forcing these little girls to do all of these pageants because it was always their dream to be beauty queens. So they have their daughters living their mom's dream for them.
With all of these pageants the girls have to rehears their talent, answering interview questions and walking on stage. They also have to get all of their clothes fitted because most of their gowns are made just for them. Having to deal with all of these issues in order to make it to the top of the beauty pageants takes a lot of time away from these young girls. Instead of doing all this pageant stuff, the girls can be doing homework or other educational activities. This can take away from the girls learning to their highest potential.
Sometimes they show the parents talking about how they have their daughters do the pageants in order to win money for college. This is one of the best things that child beauty pageants provide for these young girls. However if they are to win these scholarships these girls will not be educated enough to even be attending college.
Another reason people for child beauty pageants may say that the pageants create some wholesome fun for these young girls to participate in. It also gives the parents some fun bonding time with their daughters. This isn't fun for the girls. The pageants are just not made up happy smiles; they also include the poor little girls crying behind the curtains the days of pageants.
People say pageants for girls are just like sports boys and other girls participate in. Sports that other kids participate in don't involve five year old girls parading around as if they were adults showcasing their body to an audience of strangers. Sports involve competition against others where it takes more than just beauty to win.
Entering your daughter does help the participating girls gaining poise. They have to have that when they present themselves to the judges. Ladies are graceful and that's what these beauty pageant winners have to have. So the pageants help the ladies become more graceful. By winning these beauty pageants it can help the girls gain self-esteem. Even if they don't win they gain self-esteem by just being able to present themselves on stage with confidence.
Every little girl deserves to be called a beauty queen. They shouldn't have to enter these pageants to be told that they are beautiful. The girls are more beautiful when they're their natural self's. A lot of times when they have all of the flippers, fake hair, and makeup plastered they look more ugly than they really are. They look scary and like a my size doll that is alive.
Young girls should not be doing these grown up pageants. The pageants have bad effects on all of these little girls. Why would a good parent want to place their daughters in harms way? The benefits of pageants don't come close to being as equal to the negatives. Your daughters can easily find college scholarships in other places once they get older. They don't have to be exploiting the girls in order to try to build their self-esteem either. Young girls should be treated like young girls and should be wearing Hannah Montana shirts watching Disney channel, not be in grown up pageants.
Reflection
This ten-page paper wasn't as hard as I thought it would have been to write. I actually kind of had fun writing this paper. I never researched child beauty pageants until this paper and it was interesting. This was my first paper for this class that I tried to make it more academic. I believe I deserve a low A. I followed all of the directions and did a fairly good job persuading my side.
