Cutlip 1
Brandy J. Cutlip
Betsy Jo Divine
English 105
March 31, 2009
Prostitution in the United States
Prostitution is growing into a big deal in the United States. A girl named Amanda was eight when she was sexually abused by one of her father's friends and it continued on for four years. By the time she was twelve, she was peddling crack and by the age of fourteen she was selling herself on the street. Her "pimp" beat her weekly to keep her working and stitched up her wounds himself in order to avoid questions at the hospital. This is just one story of a teenage prostitute. In the year 1990 a movie was made that glorified prostitution; that movie was "Pretty Woman". It portrays how a prostitute can move up in the world and meet the man of her dreams. Another more recent movie was in 1999 in which a man becomes a gigolo, also called a male prostitute. Both of these movies show that prostitution is a great thing; however, this is not reality.
"It has been reported that 70 percent of female inmates in American prisons were initially arrested for prostitution," states Peggy Bilsten, a former Phoenix city council member. This business of selling the body is not just women, but also children who are forced into this lifestyle. "Between 100,000 and 300,000 children in the United States are at risk for sex trafficking a year" (Connelly 117). However not only are there women prostitutes but males are selling themselves in prostitution. Prostitution should be made illegal in Nevada and Rhode
Cutlip 2
Island, since they are the only two states that still allow this act, because it spreads diseases and places prostitutes in an unsafe work environment.
Before a discussion on the negative impact of prostitution, it is important to first understand current laws. Nevada state law prohibits prostitution in counties that have over 400,000 residents. In Nevada this law outlaws the trade in two counties, including Clark in which Las Vegas is located, and Washoe where Reno is located (Friess 1). In counties that have fewer than 400,000 the people are allowed to decide whether they want brothels, which are sometimes called "adult shops", to have a license. In Rhode Island the law does not define prostitution and therefore is incapable of making it illegal. However, adult shops, hustling, which is the act of selling women and street prostitution, are all illegal (Friess 1). These states do not officially give a stance towards the legality of prostitution.
One of the reasons that prostitution should not be legal is because it helps to spread diseases. Robert Meier and Gilbert Geis, coauthors of "Victimless Crime?" state that because the women are having continuous intercourse, many of the prostitutes acquire a "venereal infection" which is eventually passed on to customers (45). The customer will more than likely receive the disease and then pass it on to anyone they are with after that transaction. One of the ways these prostitutes can receive an infection is through the use of drugs, specifically crack and cocaine (45). Some prostitutes do not use clean needles but instead they use the same needles that others have used. The other people could have a disease or something wrong and once they use the needle that disease carrying germ gets on the needle and is transferred to the next user. Director of the Center for Addiction and Behavioral Health Research, Michael Fendrich said, "prostitutes are reported to contract AIDS more through intravenous drug use than from customers". This
Cutlip 3
shows that even though the prostitutes may acquire the disease by drugs, they can still pass it on to the customers. Because "pimps" collect money from prostitutes, have to worry about diseases as well. In 1917, laws were passed which said that if a woman was arrested and it was discovered that she had a disease, she was sent to a hospital and had to stay there anywhere from two weeks to two months (Reitman 97). This law decreased the amount of money that hustlers received which made them more concerned about diseases.
Another factor is that prostitutes work in unstable environments. For example, there are some hustlers will take hangers and hold them over a lit stove burner. After the hanger is red hot, they put the burning metal on the arm of their women ("Branded"). This would be done in order to show which women belonged to which hustler. Other hustlers might threaten the women and their families if they did not do as their bosses said. This forces the women to continue selling themselves even if they want to leave that lifestyle. In the 1990s a survey was done throughout the United States, within that survey, 88 percent of the 130 prostitutes interviewed said they have been physically assaulted since they started selling themselves (Meier Geis 56). This is one reason that women have a hard time leaving this work. They want their families safe even if it means sacrificing themselves continually. Some hustlers go in the opposite direction and instead of threatening the women, they will bribe then with fancy clothes or expensive jewelry. In one conversation between a boss and one of his women, the man said, "you are my heart. I love you. None of these broads can give me anything, only you" (Reitman 42-43). He uses words women want to hear in order to convince them not to want to leave. There are some women who cannot afford a safe house to live in if they decide to leave prostitution. Some women may need a place to go where they can "detoxify" from this lifestyle. For some women the money they earn goes
Cutlip 4
straight to their boss. However, some would argue that there are some prostitutes who are actually quite wealthy and choose to do this line of work. They are making enough money to support themselves and maybe even buy nice things for themselves. Making enough money to survive does not guarantee that they will not obtain any diseases; it simply means that they are good at what they do.
Because many prostitutes are living in harsh conditions such as violence, drug usage, and homelessness, they often become "addicted" to their "boss" out of vulnerableness. They feel as if they deserve the abuse that they receive. In the same survey conducted in the 1990s, 57 percent of the 130 prostitutes interviewed reported a history of childhood sexual abuse (Meier Geis 56). Since these people have grown up with sexual they may feel as if that is what they deserve. Out of that percent, 49 percent said that as children they had been beaten by a caregiver until they had bruises or were in some way injured (Meier Geis 56). These poor souls are manipulated into thinking that this abuse is the only love they deserve. They do not know that they are worth more than the abuse that they endure their entire life.
Another counterpoint is that this form of trade has been going on throughout history and will natural occur regardless of laws. "Saint Augustine believed that although what the prostitutes were doing was morally wrong, even worse evils would arise if she did not provide an outlet for male lust" (Meier Geis 280). Historically, there were houses, called brothels, devoted solely for this purpose. When sailors come home after years out at sea, they could "satisfy their urges" at these houses. Since this act has been happening for many years, getting rid of it completely would be difficult. However, one specific factor needs to be taken into consideration, in those days; diseases were as much of a concern as today. Doctors did not have the technology
Cutlip 5
to understand why women were getting sick and eventually dying. Since the doctors did not have the equipment necessary, then many women died without ever having a chance.
Meier and Geis state that some people think the women should just be licensed and have to take routine tests to determine if they have any diseases (45). This idea would legalize the act but will reduce the spread of diseases. If the women were licensed and therefore tested, then the act could be more efficiently controlled. Proponents argue that they could take training sessions which would help them to better understand what is actually entitled in their work. "Uncontrolled prostitution could result in a heavy increase in public annoyance on the streets and residential disturbances in neighborhoods in which prostitutes ply their trade" (Meier Geis 55). Still others believe that prostitution should be legal as long as they abide by the laws designed for public decency (Meier Geis 44-45). If they are not showing others what they are doing, then it should not matter. This could possibly work, but there is still the spread of diseases to worry about. Not only that, but even if they are not showing what they are doing, the women still have to work in the unsafe environment that they are already working in.
An interesting factor in determining whether prostitution should be illegal is that at what age prostitution is defined. "Teenage prostitution has reached epidemic proportions in this country with millions of teens engaged in selling their bodies for drugs, food, shelter, or other needs" (Flowers 85). Some teens are forced into this lifestyle by being kidnapped; which is called human trafficking. The definition of human trafficking is "the recruitment, harboring of persons, by means of threat or other forms of abuse, for exploitation" (Flowers 59). Some children are kidnapped or they run away and are threatened into the prostituting lifestyle.
Cutlip 6
The graph above shows the amount of teens in America arrested for prostitution in 1998. The graph does not show there were 33 arrests of children age twelve and under (Flowers 99). The graph does show that 74. 3 percent of all the teenage arrested were eighteen and nineteen (Flowers 99). Flowers states that young teenage runaways are selling "survival sex" and are therefore being subjected to arrests and jail time (99).
Some of these teens enter this type of business in order to support their alcohol and drug addictions. Teens that are addicted to crack and are desperate, are the ones most vulnerable to sexual exploits by hustlers. Flowers, an independent criminologist and author, states that "the relationship between high-risk, illicit sexual relations and substance abuse multiplies the teenage prostitute's risks related to drug addiction, delinquency, victimization, and exposure to the AIDS virus" (88).
Women and teens are not the only ones who are involved in the prostitution business. As stated earlier, men are selling themselves as well. Historically, the spotlight about prostitution has focused mostly on women because they outnumber the males. This does not completely
Cutlip 7
exclude the male population. The first national study of adolescent male prostitution was taken by the Urban and Rural Systems Associates of San Francisco. In this survey it was recognized that male prostitutes sell themselves primarily for financial reasons. It was understood that money was the most important factor for teenage male prostitutes (Flowers 131). Women prostitutes are not the only ones that abuse drugs; 83 percent of male prostitutes had tried marijuana and 77 percent were regular users, according to the Huckleberry House Youth Services Project (Flowers 135). Flowers claims that the use of crack cocaine by teenage prostitutes can contribute to the spread of underage prostitution. There are some houses that double as "sex-for-drugs" centers.
The men who do not seek professional help usually cannot afford to do this. However, others may be worried about what others male prostitutes may think of him. Cudore Snell, author of "Young Men in the Streets" states that 32 percent of white males on the streets are afraid of others would think if they seeked out professional help (67). Also, 65 percent of white male prostitutes say that they have little to no money to search for professional help.
Changing the laws in Nevada and Rhode Island would affect the rest of the United States as they are the only two states that still technically allow prostitution. If the laws are changed, then the spread of disease throughout the entire country will help be reduced. In the 1980s, the United States Department of Health reports that only 3-5 percent of the sexually transmitted diseases in the country are related to prostitution (PENet 1). That may not sound as though it were a lot but if that were reduced to at least half, then it would make a difference.
In conclusion, prostitution should be made illegal in Nevada and Rhode Island for multiple reasons. Diseases are spreading 3-5 percent faster than if there was no prostitution. Not
Cutlip 8
only are diseases a problem but the prostitutes are in an unstable environment. They are beaten and abused. These two factors show why prostitution should be illegal in Nevada and Rhode Island, the only two states that still allow this trade.
