For Compensation 8
Running Head: FOR COMPENSATION
Compensation for Organ Donation: For
Delaney Mc Coy
English 105
Jackie Belknap
Northern Arizona University
The shortage of transplantable human organs grows every year. As of today, there are over 100,000 people on the organ transplant list and almost 4,000 people are added to this list each month (United Network For Organ Sharing, 2009).
There are two options for human organ transplantation. The first is to have living donors donate organs that they can live without, such as a kidney, part of their liver and a lobe from a lung. The second is to remove vital organs from a cadaver, which is a person who has recently died (Hurley, 2004). Even with these options the need for organs is greater than the supply. The National Kidney Foundation says that 17 people die each day "while waiting for a transplant of a vital organ" (2009). Experts believe that the number of "available organs" will remain constant but the demand will continue to increase (Hurley, 2004). It is obvious that the organ donation system that is in place now is not doing the job, it time for a different approach. Compensating people for their organ donations would increase the organ supply and greatly reduce the number of people on the waiting list.
Over fifty years ago there was no effective treatment to end state renal disease, which is the loss of kidney functions over time, but now dialysis, filtering the blood with a machine, and kidney transplants, which can be donated by live donors, are available treatments (Gaston, Danovitch, Epstein, Kahn, Matas, & Schnitzler, 2006). Although both treatments will extend the life of the patient, transplantation is the preferred choice because it offers a better quality of life and a longer life span. Unfortunately there are not enough kidneys for all of the patients who are in need of a new one (Gaston, et al. , 2006). This shortage of kidneys causes patients to wait for a new kidney and receive dialysis for an extended period of time, which may be detrimental to kidney transplantation (Gaston, et al. , 2006).
Figure 1: Graph of Patients on Waiting List Of the 100,000 people on the waiting list over 70,000 are waiting for a kidney, which
is the organ with the longest waiting list, as seen in Figure 1 (National Kidney Foundation, 2009). The waiting time for a kidney has increased from "one year in 1983 to between five and 10 years" (Furchtgott-Roth, 2008). People on the list are more likely to "die, or get too sick to be eligible, than to receive a donated kidney" (Furchtgott-Roth, 2008). Unfortunately this causes an "increased willingness to use kidneys whose features may be less than ideal" (Gaston, et al. , 2006). People on the waiting list come to the realization that they may die if they do not receive an organ and become desperate. Some publicly ask for donations while others go outside the United States and "obtain organs from questionable sources" (Gaston, et al. , 2006).
Organ donations are very controversial and because of this laws have been put in place to regulate these donations. In 1968 the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act was set in place. This law states that anyone 18 years or older has the "legal right to decided whether to donate all or part of their bodies after their death" (Hurley, 2004). It also sates that the person who retrieves the organs for donation, "must avoid mutilating the body" (Hurley, 2004).
The Uniform Anatomical Gift Act was a good beginning but with time different issues arose. In 1984 the National Organ Transplant Act was set in place to regulate organ transplantation at a federal level. The National Organ Transplant Acts most important contribution to the organ transplant process was the "establishment of a system for matching those in need of organs with transplantable organs" (Hurley, 2004). To do this the act created the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, which is run by the United Network for Organ Sharing. In addition to establishing an organ transplant system the Nation Organ Transplant Act prohibited "the purchase and sale of human organs" (Hurley, 2004). This means that recipients of the donors organs are not allowed to compensate a donor in any way. This act also stated that any person caught selling for purchasing an organ would be fined $50,000 and could spend up to five years in prison (Furchtgott-Roth, 2008).
Unfortunately the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act and the National Organ Transplant Act did not solve the scarcity of organs. As a result, the Clinton administration ordered the organ-sharing system to construct a more effective distribution system. In 1988 the Department of Health and Human Services published the Final Rule (Hurley, 2004). Under the Final Rule, the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network is required to "develop equitable allocation policies that provide transplant material to those with the greatest urgency in accordance with prudent medical judgment" (Hurley, 2004). Which means that the placement on the waiting list for an organ is based on the severity of ones illness. The Final Rule also states that everyone has an equal opportunity to receive an organ; location and economical status would not determine if a person were to receive an available organ or not (Hurley, 2004).
As stated earlier these laws are not doing a sufficient job at getting organs to those who need them, and a new system needs to be put in place. One option is to compensate people for their organ donations. Many people believe that this will not produce positive results. People have said that various religions oppose compensation for donation saying, "compensation for donation preserves the liberty of the religiously committed to abstain from participating in organ markets and to support institutions that reflect their own beliefs" (Matas, Hippen, & Satel, 2008). However, many religious leaders have said that compensating people for their donations is acceptable (Matas, et al. , 2008).
It has also been argued that compensating people for their organ donations would lead to the exploitation of the poor. There is no doubt that poor people will be more likely to donate, but is it exploitation if the person makes an individual decision to donate? People who have a low income are not prevented from taking risky jobs and they are able to make decisions for themselves, but for some reason when it comes to compensation for organ donations they are prevented from doing so (Matas, et al. , 2008). Even if most the people who donated were from low-income families the type of compensations would be structured in a variety of ways. Tuition vouchers and health savings accounts would prevent people experiencing financial issues from making rash decisions for fast money (Matas, et al. , 2008).
Compensating people for their organ donations would cause people to be more likely to donate. The Wall Street Journal did an online poll and found that 49% of all adults were "somewhat or strongly in favor of incentives" (Matas, et al. , 2008). Megan Flitte, a student at Northern Arizona University, said that if one of her family members needed an organ she would donate to them but if a stranger needed an organ she would be reluctant. When asked about being compensated for donating an organ she said she would donate to a stranger if she knew she would get compensated for it (Personal Interview, April 15, 2009).
Compensating people for their organ donations would increase the number of kidney donations and greatly reduce the number of people on the waiting list. Since 1988 Iran has been compensating people for their organ donations (Howley, 2008). Donors are compensated in three ways; the government gives them $1,200, and health insurance, and the recipient also compensates the donor; which is arranged by the Dialysis and Transplant Patients Association before the transplantation occurs (Ghods & Savaj, 2006). Before Iran started doing this only 30 percent of patients on the organ transplant list received a kidney. As soon as the incentive program was put in place the number of people on the kidney waiting list decreased, and in 1999 the waiting list was eliminated entirely (Bagheri, 2006).
Some say that compensating people for their organ donations would be very expensive. But that is not the case. While waiting for a new kidney, patients undergo dialysis, an expense treatment "paid for by Medicare at an annual cost to taxpayers of $70,000 a year" (Furchtgott-Roth, 2008). Compensating people for donating their organs would be less expensive then paying for dialysis. It has been said that a "$100,000 kidney could save Medicare over $220,000 a patient" (Furchtgott-Roth, 2008). The government could then use the saved money for a different purpose. No matter how one looks at it, compensating people for their donations is cheaper than dialysis.
As stated earlier the current organ donation system is inadequate. There are too many people who need an organ and not enough people are willing to donate. People are beginning to realize that if something is not done soon then the organ shortage will continue to increase. One such person is Senator Arlen Spector. In September of 2008 Spector proposed a bill that would revise the National Organ Transplant Act. Spector's Bill would "allow states to reward individuals who would like the save the life of a stranger" (Furchtgott-Roth, 2008). The bill would also "raise the fine for commercial sale of organs to $250,000 (Furchtgott-Roth, 2008). By prohibiting the private sale of organs and at the same time allowing government compensation, the Organ Donation Clarification Act could give a hope to the thousands of patients in need of a new organ.
With over 6,000 people on the organ waiting list dying, and thousands more suffering on dialysis each year it is obvious that it is time for a different organ donation system to be put in place. The National Organ Transplant Act was put in place to regulate organ donations, and for several years it was successful, but now it is no longer doing the job well enough. . There is no need to replace the National Organ Transplant Act; just a revision would be sufficient. Making government compensation of organ donations would resolve the current problem. By allowing the compensation of organ donation the number of organs donated would increase, causing more transplants to occur. With more transplants occurring there will be a fewer number of people on organ waiting lists. Iran is proof of this; since the incentive program was put in place in the kidney waiting list has been eliminated. It is time to follow Iran's lead and legalize organ donation compensation.
