Blanca Ramirez
English 105
WP#5
4/28/09
Mexican Drug War: Is it Worth the Costs?
War has always been and continues to be a very controversial issue and there are always two sides or opinions for a war. What is the real purpose or cause for the war? Is it really the best or only option? Is the cause or purpose really worth going to war for? These questions, like many others, also play a major role in the growing debate of the Mexican Drug war. With the Mexican government and military now involved, resulting in the most current turning point of the drug rivalry war, the violence and drug related deaths and killings have greatly increased, and many people affected by the war are now starting to question, "Is the benefits of the war really worth the costs?"
The drug rivalry war in Mexico has been occurring for many years. With the growing partnership with Columbian drug traffickers in the late 1970s and 1980s and with the increase of transportation of drugs with the United States, Mexican drug cartels quickly became powerful and organized crime syndicates (Toro). It was not until 1989, when the leader of the Guadalajara Cartel, Miguel Fel"x Gallardo, was arrested for an act of retribution against one of his cartel leaders, H ctor Luis Palma Salazar, that the war started. This arrest of Gallardo and the murder of Salazar's wife led to the beginning of a very long and ongoing drug rivalry war between the drug cartels (Astoga).
Even with the number of drug-related deaths increasing and continuing because of the drug war, it was not until 2006, when the people of Mexico elected the new president, Felipe Calderon, that the government finally took action against the drug cartel rivalry and decided to become involved in the war. Calderon has deployed thousands of federal troops in an aggressive crackdown to stop drug-related violence.
With the government now involved, death tolls have continued to increase. There were more than 2, 500 drug-related deaths in 2007, and the yearly toll rose to more than 6,000 deaths in 2008 (O'Neil). The violence, no longer just between the drug cartels, but now with the military too, has also resulted in the drug cartels becoming even more violent, and many drug-related deaths now also involve many soldiers, government officials, and citizens. This violence though, no longer only concerns Mexico, with the war coming very close to the Mexican-American border, and with drug-related violence occurring on both sides of the border, the U.S. is now very much concerned and involved in the war.
Even though the violence and drug-related deaths may have more than doubled these past two years, Calderon's decision to finally involve the military and government in the war, is Mexico's first stand against the drug cartels and its first effort to finally try and stop the drug cartel war that has been going since 1989. Janice Ponce (2008), a citizen supporting the war, stated, "Before, there was not much pressure on those who sell drugs, but with the army, things are changing. Now one doesn't feel so much fear, because there is more policing." Though many people still fear the drug cartels and violence outside their homes, James Mc Kinley (2008) stated that "for residents, the federal police and military patrols have brought a brief respite from the state of terror they have been living under."
President Calderon and many government officials see the growing violence by the drug cartels as proof that the cartels are losing and it is their effort to continue fighting to stay active and protect themselves from both the government and other cartels (Carl). With the crackdown on drug transportation and violence by both the Mexican and U.S. governments, the cartels now have to fight much harder and much more violent to continue their business and trafficking. Garrison Courtney (2009), spokesman for the Drug Enforcement Administration, agreed with this assumption and stated that "The reason you see the escalation in violence is because U.S. and Mexican law enforcement are winning. You are going to see the drug traffickers push back because we are breaking their back. It is reasonable to assume they are going to fight to stay relevant."
Mexican drug cartels' major source of income and their main trading partners are the American drug traffickers. According to the United States' 2008 International narcotics Control Strategy Report, about 90 percent of the cocaine that enters the U.S. is trafficked through Mexico (Hanson). This is also another reason why the U.S. is supporting the Mexican drug war and it also shows how the U.S. is helping by putting pressure on border patrol and drug trafficking between the borders. Mexican cartels are being cut out of the U.S. methamphetamine market, and the U.S. and Canada both are expecting prolonged shortages of cocaine from Mexican drug traffickers (Carl). This has resulted in the loss of drug profits for the cartels because of the war and security increase from both the Mexican and U.S. government.
In addition to losing money from the increase in security of drug trafficking, the cartels have also been hurt by the militaries' continuing and recent arms seizures. In November of 2008, Mexico came across its biggest arms seizure to date, 540 rifles, 165 grenades, 500,000 rounds of ammunition and 14 sticks of dynamite were discovered and seized (Lacey). These seizures are costing the cartels both money and weapons, and with the government still discovering more of these hidden storage of arms and weapons, the cartels are fighting back even harder, and it helps support just why these cartels are considered a national threat and why the government should not back out of the war.
Drug cartels are a very powerful influence in the Mexican government also. One of the Mexican government's and militaries' biggest challenges is revealing the government officials and officers who are working for the drug cartels. The traffickers and the people they have on their payroll do not fit any specific type. Their ranks include men and women, young and old, and they work almost anywhere, from drug labs to police and assassination squads, to upper levels of the government. It has long been known that drug gangs have infiltrated local police forces, but it is becoming ever clearer that it does not stop there.
In November, in Mexico City, the country faced the most extensive corruption case that it has ever seen. Their was an arrest or firing of about 35 suspect law enforcement officials believed to be drug traffickers or at least on their payroll (Lacey). Though there may be many more drug traffickers or people working for the drug cartels that are not known about, the government and law enforcement are working on cleaning out their branches, discovering people working with the drug cartels, and tightening security, such as having deeper background checks and lie detector tests to try and root out corruption. President Felipe Calder n (2008), fighting against corruption and trafficking in the workplaces and government offices said, "I'm convinced that to stop the crime, we first have to get it out of our own house."
Cases like this help to show just how much power the Mexican cartels have, and why it is feared that if the government backs out of the war now, that the drug cartels will once again be in power and control again. In June 2007, Calder n purged 284 federal police commanders, including federal commanders of all 31 states and the federal district. In 2008, several agents and high ranking officials have been arrested and charged with selling information on protection for drug cartels. Some of these high profile arrests were Gerardo Cadona, ex-chief of the federal police and No Mandujano, ex-chief of the Organized Crime Division. In 2009, Rodolfo Garcia, the director of Mexico's Interpol office was also arrested (Lacey). With the cartels having so much power in even the higher levels of government office, it is now also a major concern that if the government backs out of the war now, the cartels will no longer have anything to challenge them and they will once again be in power, maybe even more so this time, and may even be able to put someone in much higher government offices, such as the next president (Carl).
While these government office infiltrations may be an incentive for many people to continue the war against the cartels, it is also a reason why many also believe that the war is futile and why the government will not win against the cartels and should back out of the war. They believe that the police are outgunned, underpaid, and prone to corruption. Around Easter this year, Chihuahua State was dealing with at least 12 bodies a week turning up (Mc Kinley). Jos Ferriz (2008), the mayor of Chihuahua State, desperate due to such a dramatic increase in violence in the state, had to ask the federal government to intervene and believes that "neither the municipal government, nor the state government, is capable of taking on organized crime".
The drug cartels are now even recruiting people, they are asking for police officers and civilians to join them. The promise of money and security for them and their families are a big lure for the people. Most police officers deal with low pay and a lack of opportunity for advancement that leads them to seek other sources of money. Guillermo Quintana (2008), a local police chief, who acknowledges that his force is riddled with corrupt officers, stated that "as long as freelancing exists, the corruption is going to exist".
Even though the drug cartels may finally be on the defense for the real first time in Mexican history, the war is far from over. The cartels have not shown any sign of backing off but are only reacting by being more violent and dangerous than ever. More than 1,000 people have been killed in the first eight weeks of this year and violence has only been increasing (Carl, 2009). To make up for lost drug profits, cartels are terrorizing the people through kidnapping and extortion, crimes that are also spreading into the U.S. Pedro Ortega (2007), a family doctor living in a Michoacan farming town at the center of the drug trade, stated, "Calderon's war on drugs has been a big disappointment for us. The reality is that we are scared to go out of houses, scared about what could happen to our children".
Drug cartels are becoming much more violent and are becoming much more brutal with their killings and kidnappings. On May 12, 2007, drug gangs left the head of a 37-year-old auto mechanic wrapped in a sheet outside an army base, along with a note that read: "We are going to continue, even if federal forces are here" (The Associated Press). A few other examples of the increase in violence since the government has joined the war are a school where children found twelve bodies with their tongues cut out, or a man, who became known as the Stew Maker, had dissolved the bodies of three hundred cartel victims in acid (Neely). Even the fear of being caught by the constant bullets heard outside theirs homes because of the war have many people scared and questioning whether the government is really winning.
The war has moved into public areas and cities, affecting everyone in Mexico, from the people to the journalists, police, and government officials. Seven journalists have been killed in Mexico since October, making it the world's second-most dangerous place to report, after Iraq (The Associated Press). The danger and violence has also made the police and military fearful of the cartels. The military and police officers are often seen wearing masks for fear that the drug traffickers will find out who they are and come after them or their families. Police no longer have the clean-cut good guy look since the government has become involved in the war. Instead, a menacing soldier in a black mask and helmet carrying a heavy machine gun is more often seen. The military and police are now letting the officers grow their hair out, because they fear that the traditional clean-cut military hair style will put the men in more danger and make the men stand-out more to drug traffickers when they are off-duty (Mc Kinley).
An example of this danger that police officers have to face is a poster left by drug traffickers at the bottom of a monument honoring fallen police officers. It contained a hand-scrawled list of twenty-two officers, five of whom have already been gunned down in the street. The sign warns them that the others would also be killed "unless they learn". In all eight police officers have been assassinated this year and three are missing (Mc Kinley).
With the war becoming so much more dangerous, and with the number of drug-related deaths more than doubling these past two years, many people are starting to question the war. Though it may be for a good purpose, to stop the drug cartel rivalry and finally have the threat under control, it is well known that the war will not stop anytime soon. Even Calder n, who hopes that the drug cartel threat will be under control by 2012, admits that he may be too optimistic (Carl). The drug cartels are not backing down, and it will continue to become even more violent and dangerous as the war between the cartels and the government and military continues. With all this in the people's minds and with the knowledge of what they and their families already have faced or may face with danger of being the next cartel victim or being caught in the middle of the war, many people are starting to question, "Will the government really be able to win this war?", and the most important and frequent question, one that the country, with all the violence and deaths that it is facing every day, is asking, "Is it really worth the cost?".
Though the war may be long and the government has many challenges, such as with money, infiltration in the government offices and police, and with the increase in the number of drug-related deaths and violence, there is another issue brought up, not by the people, but by the government officials. Though the government and police may not be able to compete with the drug cartels in issues such as money, security, and luxury, the government is now asking the people and workers to help the war by supporting the cause and by making their own stance against the cartels. The fight to clean up Mexico, the government encourages, should not only rely on the government and military as a whole, but by each and every person. It is up the citizens to put their country first and respect the law above all else. Bribes so often demanded by officers on the beat and accepted by the public as normal only helps to support the drug traffickers increase their power and their drug profits. It is up to the work and support from the countries' government, its police and military, and its people to finally end the threat and the violence from the drug cartels (Mc Kinley). President Calder n (2008), who believes that there has to be a line that people will not cross, even for a suitcase full of cash, stated in a speech to the Mexican people, "We need a stronger society, a society that lives the principle of legality with conviction, that encourages, promotes, spreads, and educates its children with values".
Though the war may be longer than expected, and even though the war may become much worse and violent before the war makes a turn for the good, this war is the country's first and only stance against the drug cartels. Drug rivalry and violence have been occurring for many years, and as time goes on, they have continually to become even more powerful. If the government backs out now, the cartels will no longer have either the Mexican or American government to really challenge them. The United States, who also recognizes the danger the power and danger that the cartels bring, which also reaches beyond just the Mexican borders, is supporting the war. The country will continue going through harder times before there can be a new turning point in the war, because the drug cartels are organized, powerful, and dangerous, but it is also why the people of Mexico should finally stand up to the cartels and take control of their country and their streets. As President Calder n (2009), when supporting his decision to fight the drug the cartels and take back their streets, stated, "We have to come together to confront this evil. We Mexicans have to definitely and categorically say, "That's enough!""
