Fukui 1
Jon Fukui
Kacie Beagen
Eng 105
4/26/08
Psssh, Men Should Get More
In today's premier athletes also comes a premier payday. With varying sports as we all know, there is also varying paychecks. Such as football and basketball, huge American sports that athletes in high school and college want to become sometimes, just for the money. In comparison with sports such as hockey and tennis, (not including endorsements), the stars do not make nearly as much, but that is not the kind of discrimination that's going to be argued. What's even more discussed and argued is the discussion of men being paid more. Is it fair? Is it sexist? Men should get the "bigger bank" compared to that of a woman because of such things as ticket sales, lengthier play (which in turn means used more energy), and competition.
Another side to this argument is that women should be compensated as much as men. People who argue this side gives strong reasons and facts to their argument and while some men fight for equal pay in sports, the majority of the people arguing for equal pay are women, more so if have they participated in high school sports, college programs, or in the pros, but the biggest are the feminist women. They have reason to believe this; they play the same sport and train just like men (i.e. maybe not the same weight or distance). In some sports such as skiing and snowboarding pro men athletes have been known to stand up for them. For example, freeskier Simon Dumont said, "they've (women) earned their spot in winter dew" (Ruibal). Winter Dew is a contest/competition for freeskiers and snowboarders. At the Winter Dew first, second, and third place earn the same amount of money for men and women. Also Olympic gold medalist Kelly Clark made her appearance at the Winter Dew and had this said about her, "Having Kelly back ... is awesome," (Ruibal) program director Jeremy Forster says, "She is one of the best halfpipe athletes in the world" (Ruibal). Having a woman being called one of the best halfpipe athletes in the world eliminates the judgment that women can't be the best at what they do, that's including men. Something also to consider is how much sports are allowed to give out to an individual, the WNBA and NBA for example are given salary caps. Salary caps in short are all the money they have to use to get players they want. So when coach Brian Angler, coach of the Seattle Storm, found that not once or twice, but the three time WNBA's MVP winner Sheryl Swoopes was costing him more money than he could afford he had to waive her from her contract. This wouldn't have happened if Angler had been given the salary cap that of an NBA team. Angler's contract has him on an 803 thousand dollar contract (Associated press 12). Though NBA teams have a salary cap of 58. 6 million (Colston). Not only is this problem with just the athletes it also occurs in the media as told by M. Hardin and S. Shain. These sports writers are still treated unfairly even with the progression of women in the media. A recent ASNE study estimates that 38percent of newsroom personnel are women (M. Hardin, S. Shain 22-35). Just to show that there are quite more women in the sports media than most people would guess. Still one respondent of a survey taken wrote that salary inequity and lack of promotion were the "biggest problems" (M. Hardin, S. Shain 22-35). So with this you can draw the conclusion that no matter how much women join the sports journalism profession they will still be underpaid and along with that, treated unfairly in comparison to their male counterparts. Women argue they are treated unfair by not getting paid the same and sometimes even being harassed. As well they say they play the same sports such as the winter games where certain men backed them up, but is this entirely true? Do they play the same sports exactly?
Most men, true realists, and people who see the world as black and white would answer no to the above questions. For a lot of reasons, but first of many is the income men's sports pulls in. Not the player or coach etc. but the program league or whatever it may be that they're in. There's one very much talked about it, and that is basketball, the athletes in this particular sport have very different pay depending how big of a superstar they may be, and whether they are male or female. In the world of basketball a lot depends on fans/crowds when a coach doesn't produce a big fan base often times they're fired. Though when a coach does bring in a large fan base they usually will have a bigger paycheck. For a men's basketball tournament tickets ranged from 25-55 dollars the first day and went up to 30-60 dollars the last day (COLLEGE BASKETBALL B4). This was not an actual college basketball tournament, but more of an exhibition tournament. Taken that into consideration the women's NCAA tournament tickets only ranged from 10-15 dollars for the opening days then increased to 20-25 dollars (A. Babbitt). So when hearing about underpaid women in sports people should really think about things such as this. It is true that the tickets cost more, but as well more people sit in them too! UNH, a school not very known for its basketball program has its head coach of the women's basketball team making somewhere between 93-95,000 dollars. However, the men's coach gets paid 130,000 dollars this is because there are more people in the seats at the men's game than the women's (Fennell C3).
Looking at the payrolls of different athletes shows women aren't that far behind men if they strive to be the best. Many people know who Serena Williams is. She is the star of women's tennis, sister of Venus Williams, and a huge money making icon. Many people say women don't make enough money, but Serena right under Kobe Bryant and above Allen Iverson two huge NBA superstars was right with them when it came to her paycheck. She made a whopping 22,251,798 dollars in the year of 2005 (Freedman 65-69). More than racing stud Jeff Gordon or biking phenom Lance Armstrong! Though people will read this and say that is only one athlete. Well take into consideration she wasn't the highest paid, it was Maria Sharapova another huge tennis star, the cannon camera commercial endorser pulled in just over 23 million dollars with an exact salary of 23,006,263 dollars (Freedman 65-69)! Compared to hopeful future hall-of-famer Brett Favre's 16. 5 million (Freedman 65-69) there's almost a 7 million dollar gap. It's not that women aren't getting paid its women aren't getting attention. If women want more money they should try to get more endorsement deals, a lot of athlete's money comes from endorsements. Andre Agassi was the Fortunate 50's number two spot fifteen up from Serena, but Agassi's winnings in prize money was a very lousy 1. 1 million. Serena though earned herself 2. 2 million twice that of Agassi, but Agassi made a huge amount of money from endorsements. To be precise Agassi pulled in over 44 million dollars (Freedman 65-69)! So you can't always claim sports as being the key to the unfortunate low salaries of women athletes, it's a lot of times the case that men are making a lot of their money outside their first career.
Second as to why women don't make the "big money" is because of playing time duration. In just about every sport men comparably to women play longer than women do. To name a just a few are basketball, tennis, and softball which only plays seven innings to baseball's nine. Then women complain and argue it's because of testosterone and hormone levels! Well to be making that kind of statement you have to be understanding that men as a scientific fact or scientific tests have proved males are literally just born that way, they have higher testosterone levels. This in turn means men can throw a ball faster, shoot a ball farther, jump higher, and hit a ball harder than a female can on average. It also means men have a greater endurance for most things as well, which is why a lot of people consider men's basketball more exciting for the fast pace, high flying dunks, and longer play. Another thing hereditary to men are things such as height, body mass, and strength. Men are usually on average for mostly every physical sport (so excluding bowling, ping pong, pool etc.) taller, which in short makes things more interesting such as volleyball, watching a man who can leap 40 inches off the ground plus he's 6'5 and hits a ball at 60 mph a lot of times captures the attention of fans more than a woman who's 6'0 and jumps 30 inches. As well things such as body mass and strength go hand-in-hand. Seeing a 7'1 300lb man break down the whole backboard in a basketball game (reference to Shaq) excites people more than a women going up for a lay-up. Along with this comes another same sort of topic, and that's the topic of competition.
Women complain how it is unfair men make more money because of certain biological factors. Well if women want the same money why not just play in men's league? This is the argument that USA Today had an article on. Comparing the sport of tennis for example the writer says plain and simply "The men play best-of-five sets, the women best-of-three," "When the game becomes equalized, so should the money," "but not before" (In tennis). Fair is fair: Equal = equal, period. When women get on the same court and compete against the men, they deserve the same pay (In tennis). Though maybe harsh, and to some people this may be seen as unreasonable and unfair, but it's very true women cannot compete on the same level as men on average without any drugs. So in a boxing ring or on a court a woman couldn't for the most part go up and up with a male so why shouldn't a man be compensated for that more. You can't really say it's the same amount of work when a guy's hitting harder or moving faster!
In the world of sports there will probably be some discrimination to certain sports for more years to come, but the discrimination against women is here to stay. Women believe they do the same things as men, but looking statistically and by size how can they? Most sports were developed by men and for the most part overall only men truly dominate a sport. So the money for them should be more because of how many fans come to watch, how long they play or how much they endure doing that time, and because the amount of competition is greater.
