Beauty Pageants 2
Negative Effects of Beauty Pageants
April 29
2009
I approached the writing process for this paper by researching the topic then writing a paper on the counter argument. After the short argument paper I had knowledge a foundation to start writing the big paper. The page requirement for the paper made it hard to find enough information to fill the requirement. I found enough sources but all the information given from each source repeated itself. I think I addressed the major parts of this issue that could have strengthened my paper. I don't think that there was point that I failed to explore that could've improved my argument. It was different combining the argument and counter-argument into one paper plus all the points of the argument. There was a lot going on for one paper and multiple points to address. Although even with the amount of information that needed to be in the paper it was still difficult to make the paper meet the page requirements because of the topic. I found that I was writing more in a informative way that an argument way.
Extended Argument
"Beauty is how you feel inside, and it reflects in your eyes. It is not something physical." This quote said by one of the major sex symbols of the sixties, Sophia Loren. The quote believed by the famous award winning Italian film actress has no reflection on today's society. Society today puts demands on women such as, to be "beautiful" which is considered by physical appearance. Body image demands are presented through beauty pageants. Contestants of the pageants are known to be tall, skinny, tan, and overall perfect. The contests are idolized by many people especially younger girls and are affected by what they see. A beauty pageants' intention is to create a role model for society to look up to by having contestants that are well educated and want to make a difference in the world, but in doing so they create high expectations such as being the prettiest women in the nation. Girls in society are not the only ones that feel the pressure to be beautiful from the pageants but also the actual contestants. In many ways beauty pageants start body image issues in many societies. There are multiple aspects of beauty pageants that push many to believe the contests are bad on society. Beauty pageants bring negative influences to society through the contestants, younger girls, and through girls around the world.
The first beauty pageant dated back to 1921. It took place in Atlantic City where a hotelman decided to put on a pageant to attract guests to the hotel. The event was the "National Beauty Tournament" that took place on the beach and was to select the most beautiful bathing beauty in America (Pageant History). Beauty pageants started out and are known to be based on physical appearance. The pageants do consist of talent and question response activities that help the judges choose a winner, but the contestants wouldn't have a chance of winning if there wasn't much put into their appearance. Contestants of beauty pageants are tall and skinny with perfect skin, hair, and makeup. The money and time that is invested into each contestant's body image is what declares them to be perfect. With the contestants promoting this appearance, physical demands are pushed towards society. The demands leave women to compete with the high standard of being beautiful while younger girls are idolizing the pageant winners and getting negative influences on physical appearance.
Figure 1 is a picture of Melanoma. Adapted from at-risc.org. Pageants like the Miss USA contest give many wrong ideas to society about the ideal woman, but being the ideal woman has its harmful effects too. The pressure that is put on the contestants is strong enough to make the girls take beauty to the next level and cause permanent physical damage. The stress to be thin pushes some girls to eating disorders like anorexia and bulimia. The perfect body is about every little detail, even down to the color of one's skin. Tanning is a major activity done by many contestants. "They say a tan makes them look better in their gowns, but brown skin comes with a price" (Once- 'Tanorexic' Teen Tries To Save Others). Brittany Leitz, former Miss Maryland, has experienced the price from tanning. Brittany suffered from Melanoma because she felt the pressure while participating in the pageants to improve her skin tone. "I was definitely a tanorexic," she said. "I never thought I was dark enough" (Once- 'Tanorexic' Teen Tries To Save Others). To the right in figure 1 is a picture of Melanoma, a form of skin cancer. This thought about never being perfect enough is common among many contestants and is what pushes them to the extreme. Brittany has undergone 25 surgeries to fight Melanoma an aggressive and sometimes deadly form of skin cancer. There are many cases like Brittany's resulting from the stress that comes with being involved in beauty pageants. Beauty pageants also give off the need to be a certain weight of all the contestants. The contestants have high stress from this requirement that it pushed them to eating disorders or strange eating habits to obtain and maintain the right body weight. Other factors of the perfect body like breast size and skin drive some contestants to get plastic surgery. Many times plastic surgery has its side effects too. The effects of beauty pageants are hard on all competitors.
The effects are even more dramatic on the contestants of child beauty pageants. "Competitions 25 years ago really only required a party dress and a satin hair bow (Schultz, K., & Murphy, P). Child pageants today go beyond a bow in the hair. They are treated like beauty pageants for older contestants. Like the big pageants body image is even pushed on the young competitors to have perfect physical appearance. It is normal to see the young girls participating in the contests to have highlighted or bleached hair. "Some young contestants wear false eyelashes or "flippers", which are false teeth used to cap missing front teeth" (Schultz, K., & Murphy, P). Pageant beauty does not consider having missing teeth even for children who naturally lose their teeth as a part of their development. Little girls in beauty pageants loose a part of their youth fighting for approved physical appearance. Improving one's looks is a norm in all beauty pageants. Image concerns are problems for little girls that grow up participating in beauty pageants because they are used to improving their appearance to be perfect. "Many of these girls will later go to even greater lengths, having breast implant surgery, getting a new nose or undergoing a tummy tuck" (Forero, J). The girls face an ongoing problem with physical appearance for the rest of their lives. Even after pageant years competitors fight to obtain the perfect body. Many child competitors lose more than their childhood to image concerns they also lose a stable and positive relationship with their parents. Most young girls in beauty pageants have their parents for as personal managers. Throughout the years of competing the relationship between a parent and daughter no longer exists, it is turned into a relationship based on business. One father of a pageant girl says "I don't get excited like a father when she wins," ."I get excited like an agent" (Ketcham, D). The parents put the daughters in the pageants for exposure without even thinking about the negative effects the pageants will have on the girls. The mothers and fathers believe that having a winning beauty pageant contestant for a daughter can get the parents appearances on shows and open up other opportunities. As managers of the young girls the parents are responsible for preparing the girls for the competitions since they lack the knowledge of fashion. With the amount of makeup, the dramatic hair dos, and outfits that are put on girls in child beauty pageants the older the children look. "When you have them looking older, for a lot of people that means looking sexier" (Schultz, K., & Murphy, P).
Figure 2 is a picture of a child beauty pageant contestant. To the right in figure 2 is a picture of a younger contestant that is prepared for a pageant. In most cases in society it is frowned on for young girls to be dressed like the child pageant contestants do. Problems with child molesters and sex offenders result from the appearance of the child beauty pageant contestants. Winners of child beauty pageants and pageants like Miss America are role models for young women in society.
Beauty pageants are viewed on television by millions of young girls. The images from the show have an impact on society. Showing beauty pageants on television helps promote negative ideas to younger women; studies have linked body dissatisfaction and desire for thinness with consumption of the media (Albright, J). With society believing that the winners of the pageants are the ideal woman the winners become role models to the viewers. Young girls dream of looking like the winners and contestants of beauty pageants. "Social learning theory has shown that children look to role models to learn their appropriate gender roles, including role models in the media, and that children and teens may model themselves after these images" (Albright, J). Bad habits of pageant contestants that are used to get the right physical appearance are passed down to young viewers that idolize the winners. "Girls learn early on that beauty is their "ticket out" of lives of desperation and hard work" (Albright, J). Beauty pageants do not help teach girls reality of life. The pageants show how competing with physical appearance can get a person lots of money and fame. As role models the pageant winners' actions can promote negative ideas to young girls. For example Miss USA, Tara Conner, was caught partying hard and doing cocaine in New York City clubs, her story was printed in every magazine and shown on the news. Tara's actions send out the wrong message to many viewers and to young girls that idolize her. Because many young girls believe, "A girl has to act like the girls that you see on TV or movies to be popular" (Marikar, S., & Phillips, A), people like Miss USA have responsibilities not to do anything obscene or wrong so that girls don't get the idea that partying and drugs are the cool thing to do.
As the popularity of beauty pageants grow across the world so does the heights of glamour. Many countries where appearance was not a major concern in the past now face body image issues. National and global beauty pageants like Miss World have contributed to the new standards of beauty. The pageants call for physical perfection. "At the Beijing Institute of External Skeletal Fixation Technology, the women are at various stages of recovery from a complex surgical procedure- or "distraction osteogenesis," as it's medically called- that can make a person taller by a couple of inches" (Jacinto, L). Promoting perfect bodies in beauty pageants put these high demands on Chinese women to improve their bodies anyway they can even if it calls for surgery. Surgery is very a popular way to obtain the appearance advertised by the pageants and its contestants. "In Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, a growing number of women are opting for surgery that "opens" the eye by sucking excessive fat out of the eye socket and stitching a permanent lid crease in order to achieve a more Caucasian look" (Jacinto, L). Women desire to have physical perfection shown through beauty pageants and know what was not provided by nature can be fixed by a plastic surgeon. Many improve their appearance to keep up with the beauty standards put out by the pageants while others do it to improve their chance in the contests. One Chinese woman, Ms. Yang, felt she needed to get surgery to have a chance at participating in a beauty pageant. "In February, Ms. Yang underwent a four-hour surgery in Beijing for her eyes, nose, mouth and chin" (Yardley, J). The 19 year old model believed she wasn't perfect enough to compete in the pageant until she had the surgery. The standard of beauty put out by these beauty pageants is so extreme is pushes women all over the world to extreme measures.
Scholarship
Amount
America
50,000
Runner-Up
25,000
Second Runner-Up
20,000
Third Runner-Up
15,000
Fourth Runner-Up
10,000
Three Finalist ($7,000 each)
21,000
Two Finalists ($6,000 each)
12,000
6 Semi-Finalists ($4,000 each)
24,000
36 Non-Finalists ($3,000 each)
108,000
3 Preliminary Talent Winners ($2,000 each)
3 Preliminary Lifestyle & Fitness in Swimsuit Winners
7 Non-Finalist Talent ($1,000 each)
Miss Congeniality
Quality of Life Winner
Quality of Life First Runner-Up
Quality of Life Second Runner-Up
Charles and Theresa Brown Scholarships
Total Scholarships Awarded at National Level
6,000
3,000
7,000
2,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
25,000
$340,000
Table 1 is a list of scholarships given out by the Miss America Pageant.
Although there are many people that believe beauty pageants bring some good to society. Some aspects of beauty pageants that are thought to be a positive impact are the scholarship assistance for the contestants and the charitable services that the pageants provide. Pageants like the Miss America Pageant are known to be one of largest provider of scholarship assistance.
But the scholarship assistance is only given to those who compete in the pageants. In the table above is a list of the scholarships that are awarded by the Miss America Pageant. There are many different scholarships given to many contestants. These winning contestants have to ignore the negative impacts that the pageants have on them just to have a chance to win some money. Beauty pageants are also admired for their charitable services. For example, in the Miss America pageant each contestant is to set, "a minimum goal that will raise $100 for a Local Pageant, $250 for a State Pageant and $500 for the National Pageant to benefit the Miss America Scholarship Fund and Children's Miracle Network in order to participate" (Miss America). The Miss America Organization is partnered up with Children's Miracle Network to raise awareness and funds for the Children's Miracle Network hospitals that are located across the world. The pageant also helps out the organization by making it a requirement for Miss America to be the National Goodwill Ambassador for Children's Miracle Network. Giving money as prizes to the winning contestants and by requiring the contestants and winners to provide charitable services are features of beauty pageants that are considered to be positive on society.
Beauty pageants may provide scholarship assistance but it only helps the contestants not society. The winning contestants are the only people who benefit from the scholarship prizes. Beauty pageants do give back to society by providing charitable events, but compared to the negative influences that beauty pageants have on society the positive aspects of the pageants are so small.
Contestants, younger girls, and girls around the world are affected by the negative influences that beauty pageants bring to society. In many ways the negative influence is based on physical appearance and the demands that are pushed on girls in society and around the world to follow and compete with. Beauty pageants have multiple bad aspects that are advertised through the contest to society. Beauty pageants can be good by providing charity but the overall influences from the pageants have caused major social problems in many countries.
