Nielson 1
Amber Nielson
Kacie Beagan
English 105
28 April 2009
He Lives
The definition of existing is continuing to be. The synonyms are surviving, persisting, enduring, remaining, or staying. One such being that has existed for decades, passed down through generations, and still roams the earth, feared and respected, but above all remains one of the greatest mysteries, is the creature known as Bigfoot. This renowned being has survived time. Bigfoot has persisted and come out on top, against non-believers. The creature has endured many winters, and the constant hunting of humans. The half-man, half-ape, has remained strong and kept itself safe, from the outside world. Bigfoot is no windy day that will pass and move on, this notorious being is here to stay. In all aspects Bigfoot exists, he has lived, is living, and will live on. "The knowledge of our own ignorance is the first step toward true knowledge." (Beets/Socrates) Humans are naturally ignorant, which is why knowledge is valued so greatly. The need to recognize that Bigfoot exists would be to recognize that anything is possible. The legend of Bigfoot is a story with history and meaning, the sightings and evidence have led to important scientific research, the descriptions and names belonging to this being create an image of Bigfoot, and the media brings him to life, all of these areas about Bigfoot establish the fact that the creature not only exists as a spiritual being, but as a physical being as well, and that with further investigation, and faith in the mission, Bigfoot will one day be recognized as an official species.
In the realm of legends Bigfoot has walked through decades of time, lived through generations, and been passed down through tales, spoken with sincerity and respect, in numerous languages, throughout the world. "It has been the subject of campfire stories for decades." (Lovegren) Most of the tales of Bigfoot stem from Indian legends of a half-man, half-ape. "This legend is one of the most enduring stories in cryptozoology, a field of study which focuses on researching extinct animals." (wisegeek.com) To some tribes Bigfoot is a spiritual being, who is a guardian that protects against danger. Others believe he is a physical being that has a family and has roamed the earth since the beginning of time. Bigfoot has existed through these legends and outlived those who doubted the truth, and those who tried to call him a hoax. When the day is done the legend still lives on. Through thick and thin, Bigfoot will exist in the spoken word, passed down through stories and the faith that he lives, whether as a physical or spiritual being.
Sightings of him keep the excitement and wonder alive, that Bigfoot does in all actuality, exist. One thousand, five hundred legitimate sightings have been reported. (Histories Mysteries) "The highest concentration of sightings is Washington. This is easy to understand if you look at the states vast forest, and mountain region, where man rarely ventures."(Beets) In 2006 a group of Bigfoot investigators where in Washington and while filming a rock was thrown at them. They thought at first it was a coincidence until two more hit the ground where they were standing. They said, "This area has long been a hot spot for Bigfoot sightings." It went on to explain that it is a common behavior of apes to throw rocks when trying to protect their territory. (Monsterquest) With all the sightings Bigfoot has not been caught, because of the avoiding characteristic and the natural run and hide behavior of a creature that feels threatened. These sightings have been made by sincere and credible people, who add to the pile of evidence, proving that Bigfoot is real.
Evidence is the proof that is required in establishing that something exists. The Texas Bigfoot Research Conservancy is an organization in Texas that collects evidence and continues research on Bigfoot.
"Several components of the body of evidence make the "Sasquatch anomaly" worthy of ongoing scrutiny. One is the database of eyewitness, and the second part of the evidence is the consistent physical descriptions of Bigfoot. The third area of evidence is the sincerity and credibility of eyewitnesses. Forth are the similarities of behavior descriptions, and the fifth is the collection of track casts. Next are the correlation between sightings and habitat. Seventh re the hair samples collected, and eight is the infamous Patterson film. Ninth are the recorded vocalization, and finally the tenth piece of evidence are the Indian Legends of Bigfoot." (Texas Bigfoot) These are ten areas in which evidence of Bigfoot has been divided. An established professor by the name of Jeff Meldom said, "Given the scientific evidence that I have examined, there's a creature out there that has yet to be identified." (Lovgren) In October, 2008, a group of explorers found Bigfoot footprints in the Himalaya's. They took a cast and it is not a hoax but indeed a footprint of an unidentified species.( Discovery.com)The footprints calculate the weight to be around 1,000 pounds. (Sasquatch: Legend) This piece of evidence shows that the physical description of Bigfoot relates to the evidence found. The collection of evidence on Bigfoot proves that there is a species out there that has not been completely identified, but that with all the evidence, it will soon create a trail that leads right to Bigfoot.
Hair Samples(Texas Bigfoot)
Footprint Casts(Texas Bigfoot)
Taken from legends, sightings, and evidence scientists have come to a conclusive physical description of Bigfoot. He is described as a half-man, half-ape, who walks upright like a human. The creature is covered with dark hair, and rises about eight feet high. Bigfoot weights between five hundred and a thousand pounds. His eye sight and hearing are incomparable, and he can move rapidly, with a long stride. It is no mystery in why one hasn't been captured, because they can move so fast and can hear and see with distinction, thus they avoid being caught. The physical description of Bigfoot has stemmed from scientific evidence and sightings, but it also coincides with the images from the legends of Bigfoot.
Portrait of Bigfoot (Google)
Patterson Bigfoot (Google)
For something to exist it has to be named. Names are in themselves a definition. Bigfoot is defined by a hundred different ways. The Salish Indians call him Seelatco, meaning "one who runs and hides." (Beets) This term is key, because Bigfoot has now been caught, because he does run and hide. Skookum, is what the Chinook Indians named him, and it means "evil God of the woods" (Beets) In this aspect the Chinook regard Bigfoot as a sort of God. Gods are feared and respects, this is how they feel toward Bigfoot. Yakama Indians call him Ste-ye, which translates to "Spirit hidden under the cover of woods." (Beets) Here they recognize that Bigfoot takes shelter in the forests, where it is vast, a habitat that they can live in without being bothered to much, and can hide and live in peace. The Lakata named him Chiye-tanka, meaning, "Big Elder Brother." (Beets) An older brother watches out and takes care of the others. All of these names give an insight into whom and what Bigfoot is. They also mimic the findings of Bigfoot's description and behavior. Bigfoot is does not only contain one name, but several, and to be named is too recognized.
Those who are trying to prove Bigfoot a hoax have a difficult task ahead of them, for the Bigfoot species may not only live as a physical being, throughout the earth, but within the world of popular culture. He has appeared throughout many films, including The Goofy Movie, Abominable Snowman, Rudolf the Rednose Reindeer, and many others. Bigfoot also is an advertising tool. He is the main character in the Sasquatch commercials, selling Beef Jerky. No matter how much adversity Bigfoot faces, he is the one that ends up on film and in other media levels, for the people of the world to see. Now not only do people hear about Bigfoot through legends, read about him in books and articles, but see him through media. Two of the five senses including hearing and sight, provide the legend of Bigfoot with fuel, to make sure he makes it down the road of time.
"We have to keep an open mind and realize we haven't found everything." (Neiss/Beets) Two million species have been discovered by mankind, yet many scientists are in agreement there might be as many as eight million species not yet identified. (Beets) An example of this was in 1938, when a primitive fish, called Coelacanth, that was thought to be extinct sixty-five million years, was caught by fisherman off the coast. (Beets) Bigfoot is among those eight million, that have not been identified, but from legends, sightings, and evidence a ladder is built, making the climb to discovering him much easier. "The study of unidentified species presumed to exist without conclusive proof is called cryptozoology." Bigfoot fall into this category of scientific study. He is not a hoax, but an ongoing study, sheds light on the future uncovering of the full truth of Bigfoot. Faith is believing in something that is rarely seen. It is the faith in the legend, the unarguable evidence, and the legitimate sightings that provide the ability to say without hesitation that Bigfoot exists.
The legend of Bigfoot is upheld by sightings, evidence, the spoken word, and modern day media. He lives in the hearts of the people, in story books, on commercials, in the vast forests, he lives throughout the world. One can argue that there have not been any credible sightings or evidence, but there have been, and hope is strong that there will be more. Bigfoot not only exists as a spiritual being, but may be a physical one as well. Pages and pages, article upon article, argument over argument can be in the name of Bigfoot, but he two words that summarize the issue into one valid point are: He lives. It can be shouted from the rooftops, HE LIVES. It can be whispered with respect, fear, and mystery around campfirtes, he lives. Bigfoot not only exists, he lives.
