Wess Bradley
English 105
Ms. Beagan
April 20, 2009
The Arizona Snowbowl Dispute
The ski area in Northern Arizona known as the Arizona Snowbowl has been embroiled in an argument over its expansion. The Snowbowl has plans to utilize artificial snow to cover a wider area and increase the number of recreational days (Snowbowl Plans). The past 10 years have yielded opposition from different Native American tribes in Arizona about the possible harm to the San Francisco Peaks. They claim the use of artificial snow will desecrate the mountain and threaten their culture. This opposition has led to court intervention on whether or not the expansion of Snowbowl infringes on the rights of the Native Americans. This has been a problem facing the people of Northern Arizona.
The Arizona Snowbowl is a private organization built in the 1930's to provide a recreational area for the State of Arizona. It stands 9,200 feet above the City of Flagstaff. Its top elevation is 11,500 feet. This area provides a current total of 777 acres of skiing and snowboarding areas. Five total chairlifts give access to the top of the Snowbowl. During the warmer months, the Snowbowl provides hiking, scenic helicopter tours, and a disc golf course that winds though the ski runs (The Snowbowl Effect). The Snowbowl has decided to expand these areas and services through its proposed expansion plans.
The expansion of the Arizona Snowbowl and use of artificial snow will not adversely affect the mountain ecology and the Native American cultures. The Snowbowl has done extensive research on how the reclaimed water will affect the wildlife. Their findings have concluded that the introduction of artificial snow will not harm the mountain. The expansion of skiing areas will only take one percent of the mountains total old growth forest (Snowbowl Plans).
The Native cultures will be preserved due to the mountain still being accessible. The Snowbowl will in no way interfere with the practice of local and state Native American religions (Court Ruling). The American Indian Religious Freedom Act guidelines have been met with the expansion's plans. The Snowbowl proposed expansion will in no way affect the sovereignty of the Native American Nations.
Snow fall has greatly decreased in the San Francisco Peaks area (Snowbowl plans). This has lead to a shorter snow season for the Snowbowl. Each year only yields on average two to three months of ski time. This in turn has lead to decreased Snowbowl profits and decreased recreational opportunities to the State of Arizona. This has motivated the Snowbowl to seek a way to increase the ski day to allow recreation and boost the profits of itself and the City of Flagstaff. The plan is to use reclaimed water to create artificial snow to cover the ski areas to increase the skiing season.
The benefits of having a longer snow season or even around the year snow would be making a winter sports area available in arid Arizona, boosting the local economy of Flagstaff through residual expenditures, and making the forested areas better accessible by Forestry officials and researchers (Snowbowl Plan). The usage of the San Francisco Peaks would be a benefit to all of Arizona. President Theodore Roosevelt commissioned the creation of the National Parks Service to preserve the natural areas of the United States as well as provide a recreational opportunity to the public (Wikipedia National Park Service). The Coconino National forest and the San Francisco Peaks are part of the National Forest Reserve which is under the National Parks Service. This will make the peaks recreationally accessible while preserving the forest and wildlife at the same time (Snowbowl Plan).
The local economy of Flagstaff, Az consists of local businesses, industries, and tourist services such as restaurants, hotels, and museums. Tourism is a major provider of profit and sustainability for Flagstaff (Wikipedia Flagstaff, Az). Visitors come by to visit the Grand Canyon, Walnut Canyon, Meteor Crater, and the Lowell Observatory which was the place of discovery of the dwarf planet Pluto. These locations and parks cause great influx of profit and taxes. The expansion of the Arizona Snowbowl will boost the economy of Flagstaff. Expenditures of tourists at hotels and stores will increase. Although the Snowbowl is outside the taxation of Flagstaff, the city is the only place to find every type of service. This means visitors to the Snowbowl will have to use Flagstaff even if for one day. Sales tax in Flagstaff is 8. 446 percent, lodging tax is 10. 458 percent, restaurant tax is 10. 446 percent, and other sales tax is 8. 446 percent (City of Flagstaff Website). These tax rates provide money for municipal services such as road maintenance, emergency services, and public transportation. Tourists making purchases will help the City of Flagstaff accumulate more tax base to better provide for the people of the city and the state.
The Native American tribes of Arizona oppose the use of artificial snow on the mountain. They say the reclaimed water is dirty and will be a desecration of the sacred peaks (The Snowbowl Effect). The fact is the process for reclaiming wastewater has advanced over the years. Wastewater can be cleaned to a drinkable state with modern technology. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has set strict guidelines for the cleaning of wastewater. The guidelines include a list of known contaminates in reclaimed water and their potential harm to humans. In order for a wastewater treatment plant to pass the EPA's guidelines, it must be able to remove human waste known as activated sludge, bacteria, and phosphates and nitrogen (Matsuo, Kurisu 3). The plant must be able to remove all Total Suspended Solids (TSS), biodegradable organic matter, and pathogenic organisms. These components are natural products of wastewater due to the breakdown of organic waste. Nitrogen and Phosphate gases are considered green house gases when emitted in high quantities (Elsevier 13) . The consequences of activated sludge are toxic types of protista and Nitrogen and Phospahte create red tide which is when red algae forms and poisons the water (Elsevier 13). All of these are products that must be removed in order to create drinkable water.
A process called the Bardenpho Process is credited with being the most effective and efficient form of wastewater cleaning. It starts with the reclaimed water moving into and apparatus to slowly move through 4 stages of cleaning for at least eleven hours. Stage one involves the water slowly moving and for most of the particulates to settle to the bottom of the apparatus. Then, the water moves to an agitator where chemicals are introduced to kill the bacteria and any other microscopic organism. This stage also helps to remove the Nitrogen, Phosphorus, and Carbon dioxide gases. The third stage is another slow moving area for the water. This allows the particulates stirred up in the second stage to settle to the bottom of the apparatus. The fourth stage is another agitation with chemicals to make sure the water is free of gases, bacteria, and sludge. The next part is to filter the water several times to remove all particulates that could clog pipes and harm humans when consumed (Wanielista, Eckenfelder 3).
Filtering treated water involves moving the water down through a type of giant filter. Different sizes of gravel and densities of sand proved the means to filter the water. The water moves through the top of the filter where gravel is used to remove the bigger particulates left from the initial cleaning. The water moves through smaller and smaller gravel eventually moving through sand. Fine sands are used to remove nearly microscopic particulates and bacteria. Nature is not able to perform the latter. This makes the water cleaner than water moved through the natural water cycle (Wanielista, Eckenfelder 5).
The Arizona Snowbowl will use reclaimed water by laying a pipeline from the City of Flagstaff to the summit of the Snowbowl. From there, the water will be stored in a five million gallon artificial pond. This water will be used for the lodge and to make artificial snow for skiing and snowboarding (The Snowbowl Effect). The reclaimed water will be transferred from the Wildcat Hill plant, which provides water for irrigation and emergency use, through the pipeline. The city's second reclaimed water treatment plant is the Rio de Flag Water Reclamation Plant and supplies the city's drinking water. Both plants are EPA rated and approved to provide human grade reclaimed water (City of Flagstaff website). After the five million gallon artificial pond is constructed and filled, the water will be used to create artificial snow to cover the skiing areas in order to maintain a longer snow season.
Making artificial snow is a very difficult process (Nakaya 136). This challenge has lead to the perfection of the process. The most common way to make artificial snow involves moving water vapor through and apparatus, having it fall like rain, then freezing the droplets to form snow crystals (RMFRES Article). This process is very similar to the way nature creates snow; however, the natural process involves years through the water recycling process. The procedure mentioned above is an accelerated and efficient process. Usually, after the snow is prepared in the apparatus, it can be blown out through a distributor much like the way water is sprayed from a hose (Nakaya 138). The artificial snow created by the Snowbowl will be sprayed on to skiing areas as needed such as when the natural snow has melted. This is the way the Arizona Snowbowl will create and utilize artificial snow.
The argument against the use of artificial snow and reclaimed water is that they will disrupt the ecosystem through the introduction of human chemicals (The Snowbowl Effect). The water will be cleaned at the already EPA approved Wildcat Plant so no adverse effects will come to the mountain. Reclaimed water is made through a process that is actually more efficient than the earth's natural water cycle (Wanielista, Eckenfelder 10). The City of Flagstaff already uses reclaimed water in its tap water sinks. A population of 52, 894 people can attest to the cleanliness of Flagstaff's water supplies (City of Flagstaff Website). People who argue against using reclaimed water on the mountain do not have much of a case. If there are protestors from Flagstaff, they are already using reclaimed water from the sinks and public bathrooms and they are healthy. The Native American protestors use reclaimed water in certain parts of the state (The Snowbowl Effect). Communities that are situated in the vicinity of the San Juan River and its outlets receive drinking and irrigation water from the river. Native Americans who come to Flagstaff use the city's reclaimed water. None have been found to become ill after such use. The case is the use of reclaimed water of the San Francisco Peaks will not have a negative effect.
The Native American opposition to the Snowbowl expansion involves the disruption of their culture and religion by desecrating the peaks. They say the introduction of the wastewater is similar to desecrating a Catholic Church or Cathedral. The fact is the Snowbowl expansion will only cover one percent of the mountain (Snowbowl Plans). There was ample consideration of the access to the mountain by the Native tribes. The guaranteed continuation of the Native American access was outlined according to the American Indian Religious Freedom Act (AIRFA) of 1978. This act was ratified by congress and made a law in order to preserve the culture and religion of the Native Americans since non Native Americans are guaranteed religious freedom under the United States Constitution. A separate act was ratified because the Native American religions involve natural and specific areas of the United States. The US Constitution does not outline specific ideas on religion. The AIRFA states: "Section One: On and after August 11, 1978, it shall be the policy of the United States to protect and preserve for American Indians their inherent right of freedom to believe, express, and exercise the traditional religions of the American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Hawaiians, including but not limited to access to sites, use and possession of sacred objects, and the freedom to worship through ceremonials and traditional rites.". When the Arizona Snowbowl was drafting its expansion proposal to submit to the Department of the Interior, which oversees the Forestry Service, they fully researched the impact of the expansion on the religion of the Native Americans as defined by the AIRFA (Snowbowl Plans). Native opposition to the expansion presented its case to the Flagstaff Circuit Court in July 2008. They said that the AIRFA granted Native Americans the right to deny the expansion to preserve their religion. The court ruled in favor of the Natives but later overturned the ruling citing the expansion does not violate the AIRFA (The Snowbowl Effect). The Snowbowl will still provide access to the mountain as needed by the Native Tribes of Arizona.
Previous evidence explains that the Arizona Snowbowl's plan to expand the ski area and use artificial snow will not endanger the ecosystem of the mountain or deny the Arizona Native Tribes the right to use the mountain in their religion. The use of reclaimed water on the natural area of the mountains will not negatively affect the wildlife or plant life. The increased snow season will be a benefit to both the ski lodge and the City of Flagstaff by attracting tourists who will pour money in to both economies. The Snowbowl expansion's benefits to the city and state warrant its execution.
