RUNNING HEAD: Independent practice for dental hygienists
Amber Morin
Northern Arizona University
English 105
Abstract
In this paper I will introduce the dental problems that Americans are facing because of a lack of available dental care, and why it is necessary to allow dental hygienists to own and operate independent practices to eliminate this problem. I will also further describe the benefits the public can gain from the introduction of independent practices. This cannot happen if individual state laws, which inhibit hygienists from opening independent practices, do not change. The regulations on independent practices need to be eliminated for the benefit and healthcare of the American people.
Many careers within specified fields offer chances of advancement for qualified professionals such as entrepreneurship opportunities, but dental hygiene does not. This occupation is controlled by state regulations, which prohibit such favorable outcomes, and which also diminishes the chance of the public benefiting from independent dental hygiene practices. The majority of the state acts have some type of supervision requirements placed upon practicing hygienists. The regulations were set in place to protect the well being of the public. However, the laws are now inhibiting dental hygienists from providing necessary healthcare where it is needed. State laws should be reformed to allow the development of independent practices for dental care and disease prevention provided by hygienists to further benefit the public in dental health, education, and accessibility. If this were to take place, it would allow hygienists to manage their own practice and deliver oral treatment and preventative care without the supervision of a licensed dentist. As it stands now, "Colorado is the only state to allow dental hygienists to practice unsupervised. ADHA recognizes 19 states having varying forms of unsupervised practice or less restrictive supervision" (American Dental Hygienists' Association, 2003). These varying forms still require some type of dentist supervision, whether it is direct or general, and this stalls the growth of dental hygiene as an independent profession and deprives the public of accessible and more affordable dental health care.
According to the Dental Economics magazine, the American Dental Association (ADA) reported that the nation's population is currently outpacing the number of working dentists (Pride, R. J., & Morgan, 2003). This is because the national growth rate is at 0. 975 percent (Central Intelligence Agency, 2009), which could lead to a population of four hundred million by year the 2050 (U.S. Census Bureau, 2008). Figure 1 below depicts the expected population increases described within the next forty years.
Figure 1
U.S. POPULATION PROJECTION
Year
Projected population
Percent change
from population in
2000
2010
308,936,000
10%
2020
335,805,000
19%
2030
363,584,000
29%
2040
391,946,000
39%
2050
419,854,000
49%
U.S. Census Bureau
Growth rate is not the only contributing factor to the increasing population; an increased life expectancy and the current immigration issues have much to do with this problem. As of now, dentists hold an estimated one hundred and thirty-six thousand jobs nation wide (BLS, 2009). The current population is well over three hundred million, which leaves one dentist per forty thousand people. The shortage in dentists has also created a lack of hygienists and the oral disease prevention care they provide. Regulations require that hygienists must work with licensed dentists, making hygienist and dentist numbers vary directly at the same rate. If there are not a sufficient number of dentists, the same will be true for hygienists. Permitting independent practices to operate would not only fill the gap between the number of dental professionals and the population, but also increase the amount of people being educated on dental disease prevention. Dental hygienists not only focus on preventative dental disease care but on dental education as well. According to the American Dental Hygienist's Association, one part of a hygienist's job is to educate patients on proper oral hygiene techniques to maintain healthy teeth and gums and counsel them about plaque control and developing individualized at-home oral hygiene programs. By increasing the number dental hygiene practices, more people will have access to dental care and the education provided by the hygienists. Increasing the public's dental hygiene knowledge would, in turn, decrease the number of dental related diseases because at home prevention measures would be improved.
Little has been done to change state laws to allow for independent practices. This lack of available dental care has caused an increase in dental diseases, which prompted the Surgeon General's Office to release a National Call to Action to Promote Oral Health in May of 2000. The incentive behind the call to action was the prevalent oral infections detected by the studies done by the Office of the Surgeon General. Children and adolescents were, and still are, at the center of this fight for better oral health. According to the Surgeon General's report, over 50% of five to nine year olds have at least one cavity or filling (Office of Surgeon General, 2003). This number increases to 78% when children reach 17. Adults are greatly impacted by the dental care breakdown as well. Forty-eight percent of adults suffer from gingivitis, while another 22 % have periodontal disease. The graph on the next page illustrates the percentages of cavities that each age group is suffering from.
Figure 2
Thirty thousand people are diagnosed every year with throat cancer making it the sixth most common cancer in the nation. Dental hygienists are capable of detecting gingivitis, periodontal disease, and they can also identify throat cancer. Doing a thorough examination massage of the neck, in cancer prone areas, helps hygienists locate cancer. If detected early throat cancer does not result in death, but for now account for eight thousand deaths each year. If independent dental hygiene practices were available to the public, more cancers could have been detected and these numbers would not have been as significant. The results are staggering but they are just a fraction of the many oral related diseases our population is suffering from. Many other illnesses, which could be treated by a change in personal oral hygiene and nutrition, are running their courses because bad oral health inhibits individuals from making healthy lifestyle changes. The Surgeon General's Report provided modern scientific support about the links between dental health and overall health of an individual. "On the integral relationship between oral health and general health, including recent reports of associations between chronic oral infections and diabetes, osteoporosis, heart and lung conditions, and certain adverse pregnancy outcomes" (Office of Surgeon General, 2003). Because oral health affects the overall health of an individual, it is important to recognize the difference it can have on diseases and related mortality rates if early detection actions are taken. Dental hygienists are capable of detecting and preventing many diseases. For example, during cleanings, loose teeth can indicate osteoporosis, out of place cell growths can detect cancer, and women have an increased chance of contracting oral infections because menstruation cycle hormones are linked to gum inflammation (Web MD, 2009). This inflammation makes it hard for an individual to clean teeth thoroughly, resulting in periodontal disease, which is an infection below the gum line, and cavities. A hygienist can also identify bleeding gums, oral infections, and a high number of cavities as a sign of diabetes. If dental hygienists were allowed to practice independently many of these illnesses could be detected and treated in a timely manner, resulting in less health impact on the patients. Think of a trip to a hygienist for a checkup and cleaning as similar to taking a car to the mechanic. The mechanic will check on the noticeable problems, but during the inspection, may find the underlying issues. The same is true for dental hygienists. While their job is to educate and prevent oral diseases through regular cleanings, they are also able to identify undetected health problems.
The Surgeon General's Report about an increase in dental diseases and related illnesses prompted the ADHA to create an advanced position called an Advanced Dental Hygiene Practitioner (ADHP). The ADHP is simply a more educated hygienist. The logic behind the advanced practitioner plan is to have highly educated dental hygienists available to operate independent practices if states amend the current regulations. This strategy puts hygienists one step ahead of oppositionists of independent dental hygiene by not allowing them the opportunity to discredit hygienist's education, if laws are changed.
The ADHP is a work in progress put in place by the ADHA to also help increase the public partiality about independent practices. The ADHA is working towards more intense and longer educational curriculums that will be set in place for the degree in many colleges and universities. "The goal is to implement the bachelor's degree as the "entry to practice" within five years, and for the master's degree to be the "entry" within 10 years after the bachelor's degree becomes the standard" (Hershenson, R., 1989). Following these steps would make Advanced Dental Hygiene Practitioners "professionals" by educational standards and a more palatable idea for the public. Although the practitioner would be more educated than general hygienists the intention is not meant to undermine the general hygienist's career. General hygienists would still be able to practice under licensed dentists. The purpose of the advanced practitioner, as stated by the ADHA, is to create a more reliable dental workforce, possibly reduce the cost of dental care by offering "advanced hygiene services," provide underserved areas with dental care, and work with dentists and other healthcare providers. The practitioner would meet the basic preventative oral disease needs of the patient, but they would not replace the responsibility of the general hygienist. The creation of Advanced Dental Hygiene Practitioners is the first step to gaining control of our nation's dental health problem and also shows the willingness of the ADHA to try and improve the circumstances surrounding the state of dental health care. The downfall of this program is that the plans for it are far in the future. This is currently leaving general hygienists to fight the battle for independent practice themselves, even though they are more than qualified to operate their own dental facility.
It should be known that while the ADHA is creating an advanced career option, the education of current hygienists is not to be underestimated. Those who believe that today's hygienists are not educationally qualified to operate independent practices misunderstand the standards and licensing requirements that hygienists adhere to. All hygienists must complete an associate or bachelor's degree program that is accredited by the ADHA. Upon successful completion, they must pass the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination, followed by regional or state regulation exams. Once they are certified, hygienists take examinations every few years to renew their certification. "The hygienists said that their ''intensive'' two-year course had educated them in diagnosis and that they knew when to call in a dentist (the course covers such subjects as dental anatomy, oral pathology, histology and bacteriology, radiology and pharmacology). Hygienists said that, "They didn't want to be dentists, because their primary interest lay in education and health maintenance and that they wanted to ''upgrade'' their profession, not weaken it by making certification easier" (Hershenson, R., 1989). Hygienists are willing to take annual examinations and go to school for longer and more rigorous courses, yet states are still unyielding in response to hygienist's requests and the public need for independent practices.
Current hygienists and future advanced practitioners, if allowed to practice independently, would carry out preventative oral disease procedures, provide dental education, and refer patients to dentists when needed. Some of the methods to be used
include: "Removing degenerative tissue from the gingival wall of the periodontal pocket, providing preventative measures including application of fluorides, gathering information on patient oral health, and administering a topical anesthetic when needed" (Bailey. D., & Gail N. 1998). Because some independent practitioners may wish to make available mobile units, these services could be provided to patients who are not physically capable of going to a dentist's office. Mobile dental hygiene units are the equivalent to a traveling nurse. They would provide the majority of the services available at a hygienist's practice in the homes of people who are incapable of a trip to the office. A hygienist's office also has the potential to be less stressful than a dentist's office, making it more welcoming to many patients. The Canadian Dental Hygienist's Association has stated that, "Clients may have reduced anxiety and less discomfort when visiting a dental hygiene clinic compared with visiting a dental office. This creates a more relaxed environment for oral care treatment." Incorporating calming conditions in the clinics would be a benefit to the patients and attract more clientele for the practice. Attracting more patients would decrease dental diseases in the population.
Additionally, all of the services would be obtainable at inexpensive prices. Reduced prices would be due to the fact that patients are only paying the hygienists, not the dentists. In a sense, the middleman is being cut out of the payment method resulting in cheaper dental care. Earning lower level degrees take less time and money, which in most cases, results in lower salaries for the professional. Hygienists, whether required to earn a master's or associate's degree, will be going to school for a less amount of years compared to a dentist. This means cheaper and more available dental care for the public.
There is a misdistribution of dentists in impoverished and rural areas. Dental care in these areas is another benefit to the public that independent practices could offer. These regions, which are lacking in available dentists because of perceived low profits, could have readily available dental care. This in turn would help reduce some of the dental diseases our population is facing and the many illness that are associated with them. Many of these regions are also suffering from a shortage in obtainable jobs. If dental hygiene practices were granted permission to operate independently they could create jobs where they are needed most. This could help bring economic stability to families and communities that are lacking in both dental care and job opportunities. By providing dental health care in these areas there would be less illnesses and more jobs, which could stimulate local economies. A decrease in the number of illnesses could also decrease public funding spent on healthcare for poverty-stricken communities. Most people who live within impoverished areas are dependent on government programs for healthcare benefits. If there were less sick people in these areas it would reduce the number of individuals going to healthcare facilities, which could decrease funding needed for government healthcare programs. If people are employed they are more likely to acquire their own healthcare insurance rather than depending on the government for it. With less tax money going to these government programs it could go back into the hands of all Americans. This extra money could encourage spending and benefit the entire economy, which would also help strengthen local economies. If these areas had better economies and more employment opportunities, which could be provided by the hygienist's offices, they could have the potential to support a dentist's office. This would help create a balance of hygienist and dentist offices, which is necessary for hygienists to refer patients to dentists when patient's dental health calls for it.
For the wellbeing of our nation's population, it is necessary to keep independent dental hygiene practice a current issue, so that changes can be made. America is facing a shortage of dentists that is resulting in a shortage of dental hygienists, which is creating a lack of accessible dental care, education, and countless other benefits to the public. Failure to deregulate independent practices will continue to allow oral diseases and related illnesses to affect lives and hurt neighborhood's health and economic status. Without sufficient dental facilities, states could be preventing families and individuals from the early detection of fatal diseases. State laws concerning independent practices should change because dental cavities are not just decaying teeth. They are destroying the lives and futures of our population, our communities, and our nation.
