Geiger, Mexican Drug War
Mexican Drug War
Ken Geiger
Kacie Beagen
26 April 2009
The Mexican Dug War is a problem that has been brewing since the 1980's and has now began to turn heads. The war started as a simple transport of drugs from Mexico to the United States but now it has become violent. The Drug Cartels in Mexico are now operating in the United States and are using the money made in the drug trade to transport guns and other weapons across the border to Mexico. This war has spun out of control. The illegal trafficking of drugs to the United States has caused violence in our cities. And the illegal trafficking of weapons to Mexico from the United States has armed the Mob in Mexico helping aid the violence and corruption. Most of the Drug Cartels' revenue comes from the movement and distribution of marijuana. They use the money they make from marijuana to transport other drugs such a cocaine and heroin. Though this maybe an unconventional method, the best way to end this war is by making marijuana legal in the United States.
To back this argument, the following points will be elaborated on: How Drug Cartels use marijuana to make money, what the Drug Cartels do with the money, how the war has caused illegal marijuana farms in National and State parks, how the United States will benefit from legalizing marijuana, and how Mexico will benefit from legalizing marijuana. These points have peer-reviewed resources, journals and articles to make sure that all the information is credible.
Drug Cartels make most of their money through the illegal transport of Marijuana into the United States. Because marijuana is illegal in the United States, every dollar made through transactions of marijuana goes directly into the hands of criminals. These hands do not have to be hands of criminals. They can be the hands of hard working farmers, middle class workers and the United States Government. By keeping marijuana illegal, it allows for Drug Cartels to slip past us and build farms, underground drug trades, and a war in our own backyard.
According to msn.com a crop of 20 marijuana plants is worth over $100,000. These drug cartels have hundreds of thousands of plants at each farm that they operate. With a farm of 100,000 plants, an annual revenue of over $500,000,000 can be considered at each farm. All the crops are sold and traded all over the United States illegally, imagine if the United States made marijuana legal. As it can be seen, drug cartels make most their money through marijuana.
The Mexican Drug Cartels use this money for various other things. The most dangerous is buying guns and other weapons to send to Mexico to fight the war on drugs. By cutting off the supply of money, the drug cartels would be unable to move the guns and other weapons to Mexico, thus putting a halt on the drug war. Not only will it halt the movement of weapons, the drug cartels would be unable to move other drugs such as heroin and cocaine. Though the main revenue of money comes from marijuana, there is still a demand of heroin and cocaine.
So by cutting off the main source, you can further shut the cartels down of all their other sources of money. Another use of this money is used for buy-offs of officials of the Mexican Government, Police Force, and even the Mexican Army. These buy-offs are used for easy transport of goods through the country and across the border.
Another epidemic has begun to come on the rise threatening innocent hikers, tourists, and now the National Park ecosystems. "National Parks' Pot Farms Blamed on Drug Cartels: Mexican drug lords find it easier to grow in state than import." This headline is from the San Francisco Chronicle and is a story about the Drug Cartels now taking over National Parks for marijuana farms. The guards of these farms used to run from the rangers of the parks, but now they stand up to them with larger weaponry.
"Hikers in national parks such as Yosemite and Sequoia-Kings Canyon are encountering a danger more hazardous than bears: illegal marijuana farms run by Mexican drug cartels and protected by booby traps and guards carrying AK-47s." (SFC, page 1)
The Cannabis Plant is not native to every part of the world, and planting it in places where it is easily spread uncontrollably will cause problems to an ecosystem that could take decades to reverse.
"The illicit pot farms can also cause environmental damage. Growers often cut trees, dig ditches, create crude dams on streams, and haul in plastic hoses and other equipment to irrigate the plants. Fertilizers and other chemicals used by growers pollute watersheds and kill native species. Last year, the Park Service spent $50,000 to clean up tons of litter, debris and human waste at pot farms that were discovered or abandoned." (SFC, page 1)
Not only will the plant itself destroy the ecosystem, but also the trafficking that the cartels use to transport marijuana out of the plants is detrimental to the environment. The use of vehicles, waste products, water waste, sewage, and trash from these farms are all problems that are occurring, and the cartels could care less what happens to the land.
Aside from the waste problems, the biggest problem is the clear cutting used to make room for the farm. The trees being cut are certain populations and species of trees that are crucial to the survival of the ecosystem. Each tree and organism of an ecosystem has a role in the survival of the whole. When these drug cartels come in and build illegal marijuana farms, they disrupt the balance and cause huge problems that the Park Service will be facing for decades to come.
"National Park Service officers seized about 60,000 marijuana plants, with an estimated street value of $240 million, from parks in California. About 44,000
Pot plants were removed from Sequoia National Park near California's Central Valley. Another 10,000 plants were seized in Yosemite National Park." (SFC, page 1)
Cartels used to stick within the Emerald Triangle, an area surrounding Humboldt, Mendocino and Trinity counties in Northern California. Within the last ten years the Cartels have stretched all cross California, taking advantage of the mild temperatures and climate. Because of the higher security across the Mexican border, Cartels have found it easier to grow in the United States rather than import. The Cartels have gone to great lengths to protect their crops using booby traps and 24-hour guards. Hikers have been chased away at gunpoint, and there was an instance of a hiker being detained and his life threatened if he told authorities about the location.
The demand for marijuana in the United States is the cause for the problems in the National Parks. If marijuana were legal, it would also be legal to grow it in a farm. Therefore, farmers would buy their own land rather than using the National Forests. This would also keep the Cartels out because the government would buy the marijuana sold in stores, first. And if it were grown illegally, the government would know and take action upon that source.
With the eradication of illegal farms and the demand for marijuana from Mexico, the Drug cartels would lose all their funding and would be unable to transport drugs like heroin and cocaine into the United States. This would also cut off the transport of weapons to Mexico to fight the drug war.
Legalizing marijuana will benefit the United States in a couple of ways. The first of course is the reduction of the amount of incarcerations and the amount of arrests. Arresting criminals off the streets inevitably costs a lot of money. According to Milton Friedman, $7. 7 billion dollars per year is spent on just the arrests of nonviolent marijuana related crimes. As of right now, the United States is in a marijuana prohibition, which is costing the United States enormous amounts of money. If the government were to replace this prohibition with a taxation system, it would provide the government a total between $10 billion and $14 billion dollars per year (Friedman, pg. 1). 530 distinguished economists endorsed the report. An open letter was sent to the president regarding a debate about considering putting a halt on the marijuana prohibition to help stimulate the United States economy. There would of course be regulations on the amount of marijuana allowed on a person, and of course a fair taxation would be put in place. The taxation would be the same as alcohol and tobacco.
The end of the marijuana prohibition would also help the United States at the border. Because most of the revenue the Drug Cartels receive is from the marijuana trade, legalizing marijuana in the United States would take the money out of the Drug Cartels hands and into the hands of the government and the citizens of the United States. The legalization would also keep the violent drug crimes out of the country because those criminals from Mexico have no reason to move to the United States.
The incarceration of nonviolent drug crimes is also a huge problem that would be solved if marijuana became legalized. "Marijuana accounts for 47% of all drug arrests" (Klein, pg 1). With and average of $60 thousand dollars per year per incarcerated criminal, if one-hundred criminals were incarcerated, forty-seven of them would accounted for a nonviolent marijuana related crime. For those one hundred criminals, $6 million dollars would be spent just to keep them in prisons every year. $4. 7 million dollars on one hundred criminals could be saved every year for the government if the nonviolent marijuana drug crimes were thrown out because marijuana became legalized.
Since the 1980's, a problem has been brewing in the south. Drug Cartels in Mexico have started a pandemic that has been wreaking havoc for the past 20 years or so. The money has been flowing into the hands of criminals through a drug called marijuana. This drug is illegal in the United States, and the Drug Cartels have been making billions of dollars per year through the illegal trade of marijuana. Because the drug is illegal in the United States, money is lost to a number of things. Those things include, wasted money on incarcerations, wasted money on arrests, and the submission to violent marijuana farms in National Parks. The citizens of the United States are being arrested for the possession of marijuana and nonviolent marijuana related crimes. The money can be saved if marijuana was to be legalized in the United States.
