Brewer 7
Evan Brewer
Kacie Beagen
ENG 105
Violent Video Games: Not as Detrimental as Some May Believe
There are many theories as to where children who are violent develop their violent tendencies. One proposed theory is that video game violence plays a large role in this development. This theory is, however, flawed in many aspects. One flaw is that while video games have been shown in some cases to raise adrenaline in some young boys, there is no conclusive evidence to go about proving that these video games instill violent tendencies in young people. Another part of the argument is that it is believed now more than ever that violent children are more attracted to violent video games and play these violent games more aggressively.
To begin, there is the idea that people will perceive video games to be harmful on a far more wide scale and think them not so harmful on a smaller, more specific scale. In a 2009 study, 122 university students were asked to correlate specific video games with harmful effects as a whole, pertaining to students at their own university, or to a specific person. The general consensus was that these university students believed that the closer they felt to the person, the less they would be willing to believe that the video game would have a violent effect. (Ivory, Sriram 2009) This study has essentially nullified the argument, or rather, perception of a video game's violent effect. The usual consensus is that if a person would know the person who would supposedly be negatively affected by this video game, they would be far less likely to fall victim to this negative effect.
There are a growing amount of studies being conducted linking pre-existing aggressive tendencies to children who want to play violent video games. These children have also been found to engage in violent video game play in a far more aggressive way than how a person who did not have pre-existing aggressive tendencies. In a 2006 psychological study, this idea was explored in depth. People who had pre-existing aggressive personalities were more than twice as likely to immerse themselves completely in violent video game play. The individual's sex, or amount of time played were not nearly as big of an influence as whether or not they had pre-existing violent tendencies. The study further went to prove that a person's game play experience varies from person to person. (Peng, Liu, Mou, 2008) A personal experience makes video games different from television and other types of similar media. This has been seen to as a medium which is interpreted by its audience as the audience sees it, since said audience really has no ability to control the program other than turn to it off. A video game, on the other hand, is a completely controlled medium. The player has control over the video game such that every player can get a very different experience out of the very same game.
There have begun to be many more studies that are showing less of a link between video games and violent behavior. A 2006 study attempted to prove this new theory. A research team decided to disprove the theory that violent video games instill violent behavior in the people who played them. A group was asked to play a violent, first person shooter video game, Quake II. Their relative aggression and anger levels were observed and rated by a panel who oversaw the experiment before, during and after the experimental game play. The participants were found for the most part to not have any change in aggression while playing this intensely graphic and violent video game. There were some participants who felt more angry and aggressive after playing this game, but the number of raised aggression levels was far less than those of the unchanged aggression levels. A curious side note of the experiment was that in addition to the unchanged and raised aggression levels during and after the experimental game play, some participants experienced somewhat of a relaxant effect and their anger and aggression levels were actually lowered during and after playing this violent video game. (Unsworth, Devilly, Ward, 2007) This experiment more than proved that violent video games do not have as large of a detrimental effect as many people have begun to think.
Recently, there have been some shootings at schools and universities in the U.S. This has been thought to have been linked to the shooters playing large amounts of violent video games, desensitizing, and imitation in order to release anger. This thought has been all but completely disproven. A 2008 study looked at these shootings as an issue in a closer light. In the event of the Virginia Tech shooting, where the shooter, Seung-Hui Cho shot and killed 32 students and professors, the immediate reaction was that he had learned this violent behavior from over exposure to violent video games. When the study looked closer at the issue, the assailant had little if any violent video game exposure. In a similar case, Sulejman Talovic, who killed five people in a Utah mall, was found not to be in possession of video or computer games at all. A third case, the case of the Northern Illinois University shooting, featured a young man by the name of Stephen Phillip Kazmierczak. Stephen was found to be an enthusiastic player of violent video games, but was not seen as a violent person by any person who knew him. The case that has been looked at the most was the Columbine High School shooting in which Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold both played the game Doom quite frequently and avidly. (Ferguson, 2008) These shootings were looked at as a direct link to the shootings. At the release of this new information, this theory can essentially be thrown out the window. If most of the people who were heading the shootings did not have over exposure or even any exposure to violent video games, it is not at all logical to place the blame directly upon violent video games. Instead, this study gives further reason to look deeper into actual cause of the emotional instability of these shooters and why they have developed the dangerous personalities and tendencies that they have. With this new information, further help could possibly be developed for anyone else who may have instability instead of placing the blame on video game violence.
Violent video games have been said to cause mental damage to those who play them. Who, though, is usually the target audience of the extremely violent video games? It is now being argued that violent video games are targeting people who have low levels of education. This is an interesting thought when applied to the argument of the negative effect of these kinds of games. People with lower levels of education are more commonly associated with having trouble grasping or handling their own emotions. This could mean trouble when it comes to violent video games and how they affect these people. If the player is not able to grasp his own emotions, and snaps when he starts to play these violent video games, is it actually the fault of the video game? The answer to this question of course, is no. It is not logical to place the blame for an adverse affect on something that is completely controllable and should be thought about carefully before being exposed to someone who could have serious mental problems.
Young boys who are less educated have been shown to be more aggressive than young boys who have received a good education. In another 2006 study, 299 participants ranging from higher and lower level secondary schools in the Netherlands and Belgium were all asked to sit down and play a video game. The boys were given a choice of what video game that they wanted to play from a selection of various video games on display. These games ranged from games geared toward very young children, to sports games, to very violent video games. The results showed that the lower of a level of education that the certain child had received, the more attracted to violent video games that specific child would be. (Lemmens, Bushman, 2006) This experiment shows that video game violence is very attractive to children who are not educated and do not know any better than to be attracted to raw violence as a means of entertainment.
The rise of technology itself has been somewhat of a target for giving video games a bad name. Some experimental study has been done linking original violent video games to later made sequels and extensions of the same game. It has been found that if a video game is continued to be made, it gains more of an audience. This audience has been shown to sometimes play these games too much, bringing up the argument of addiction. If someone is addicted to a game, they are more likely to be seen as affected by it, and in the case of violent video games, this can be seen as a bad effect that would possibly make these players want to mimic what they are playing on these games after playing them for so long. This, though is not true. The studies that have been conducted are inconclusive. (Ivory, Sriram, 2007)
One of the strongest arguments against the belief that video games are linked to aggression is the question of origin. Violent video games could not possibly instill violent tendencies in players if the player did not already have those tendencies. A 2006 psychological study, 13 volunteers were asked to play a "latest generation" violent video game along with 13 asked to play a nonviolent video game. Recent generation video games have become increasingly more violent and graphic. After playing these video games, they were exposed to certain situations in a controlled environment to see if their reaction would have been any different than the other experimental group. The results concluded that there was not enough of a difference in the responses to prove conclusively that violent video games instill violent tendencies in the people who play them. (Weber, Ritterfeld, Mathiak, 2006)
Not all video games are controversial, though. Some video games are heavily endorsed by parents for their educational and positively stimulating traits. Some of these games would include Wii Fit, Tetris, and other games that are meant to stimulate mind and body. Some video games are designed solely for brain stimulation. These games feature brain teasers or other kinds of mini games that mean only to attempt to make the player think. These games make video game naysayers think twice before branding all video games harmful and damaging. In fact, video games can actually do quite the opposite. Video games have been shown to increase hand-eye coordination as well as make players more alert with increased reaction times to certain stimuli. If video games weren't originally designed to corrupt young minds and make swarms of violent children, why is it that all of a sudden parents believe this? This just goes to show even more that video games do not actually cause violence, but more of a domino effect from paranoid parents who instill in their own children that video games are bad. In hearing this, the children are more apt to believe that video games really are bad and they could be more apt themselves to believe that video games are detrimental.
There are certain experiments though, that point in the direction of the possibility of video games being detrimental. A 2007 study of the effects of violent video games took a base group of children and exposed them to a series of tests to see their reactions to certain stimuli. They were then told to play a video game which was quite violent in nature. After 30 minutes of video game playing, they were put trough the same series of tests to see if their reactions would change. What was found was a great increase in violent tendencies which pointed to the idea that the video game caused this change in behavior. (Porter, Vladan, 2007) What the experiment did not take into mind was that the minds of young children are not fully developed. This means that ther behavior would have been unpredictable anyway. Who hasn't heard of a 12 year old throwing a fit over something?
The findings of this research have been quite conclusive. While there may be some evidence that supports the idea that video games cause violent behavior, there is simply not enough solid evidence yet. Any experiment done to date that says so was flawed in some way. Most experiments will go on to say that the results are inconclusive as to whether or not the video game was actually the stimulus that caused the violent behavior. As of now, the most reasonable idea for why video games seem to cause violent behavior is that the people who play video games and then appear to have been negatively affected by them have all suffered from a mental shortage of some kind. Video games do not cause violent tendencies because there is no way for a video game to instill some kind of belief in someone if that belief did not already exist within that person. In short, video games are not the enemy, but we make them the enemy with our usually uninformed preconceptions of these video games.
