Ginny Sallaway
4-20-09
English 105
Writing Project #5
Gun Control in America and the affects of it around the World.
When I think of the Constitution I think of some old document that is really hard
and boring to read. It is something that was written a really long time ago that only law
professors, lawyers, and government officials can use and understand. Not till you
really look at each amendment and take the time to see what they say do you and I
really appreciate that our rights are written down and unchangeable. Are they really that
protected? It is very sad that so many individuals and as a nation that we have all been
cheated out of our rights in the because the Federal Government has slowly and quietly
taken our little rights away without us even realizing it.
What do you think of when you think of Gun Control? That it should be stricter
and that the Federal and State level Government should have more power in enforcing
stricter laws? There should be an ammo limit? Or, do you think that the Government
on all levels should have very little power as to, who has what gun, and how many of
each kind of gun they have? That if you want to buy 2 boxes of bullets to 20 boxes of
bullets should be your own business and no one else's? This topic is touchy, not as bad
as some but still it is fairly controversial, but I think it is because people for the most part
are not educated on guns and how useful and not scary they are. They have very
drastic affects when used, sometimes they are negative affects but not the majority of
the time. When guns are used for crime there is no real and great law that can be
passed to make the criminals stop from committing the crime with the gun. If they are
going to commit a crime with a gun or illegal weapon they are not going to care about a
Sallaway
law, it will not stop them. Just like in Mexico with the gang and drug wars that are going
on, if America is really supplying the criminals with guns, which is very unlikely, stricter
gun laws will not help because the criminals will find a way to get them because they do
not care if they brake the law or not. Crime will always be happening whether it has to
do with physical harm or tax fraud but the main reason we have the Right to bare arms
is to protect ourselves from the Government and their ability to take away our other
rights and get to powerful. If the Government takes away our weapons they take away
our right to stand up against them and have all the control leaving the people of the
nation powerless.
"A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right
of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed" (U.S. Bill of Rights). When
the Founding Fathers of our nation wrote this I believe they had one main purpose for it
that was not open for interpretation. They were writing the Constitution and the Bill of
Rights within the same generation as the people leaving Britain and the all powerful and
domineering Government, so they were trying to get away from that. They wanted to
give the people of the Nation more power than the Government would have. The
second amendment makes sure that the power is not given over to them like they
feared. The right to have and own a gun and ammunition is not just to go hunting with
or protecting yourself against criminals but to also protect yourself against the
Government and their desire to have all the power. If they take away our right to own
guns and ammo they take our only way to defend ourselves against them and any
decisions they make we disagree with. I really do not agree that violence will solve
problems but if the Government is the only one with the ultimate force of guns then we
Sallaway
really have no way of protecting ourselves from them and their ideas. The Government
is not all bad but it has a great potential of turning into an all powerful and no citizen
opinion Government and we will only have ourselves to blame for it. If they take away
our right to stand up against them what will they take away next? The arts, freedom of
speech, the freedom to have an opinion? It is a domino affect, so even if you do not like
guns and shooting it is important to make sure that the Government will not take away
the right to own guns and ammunition. Gun control affects us all whether we like it or
not.
Gun Control in one country will not necessarily affect another country. If we did
have gun control enforced in the United States it would not stop the gang and drug wars
in Mexico. If criminals and gang members want a gun and ammo they are not going to
be stopped by a law put into action by a government they do not live under or respect.
The criminals and gang members will find a way no matter what, even if it means
making their own makeshift weapons, to have a gun or weapon(Hawley). The
percentage of where the criminals and gang members are getting their guns is not
actually from the United States either. The main places they are getting their guns from
are other Central and South American countries. I am not saying that Central and
South America are all corrupted but they definitely have easier ways of getting guns and
ammo from them then the United States because of more apparent corruption in their
Governments. It is easier for he criminals and gang members to get weapons and
ammunition from the other countries other then America, a very small percentage of
weapons used in the gang wars are sold in the United States because they are harder
to get over the America and Mexico border then from the other countries. Even though
Sallaway
this is true if Gun control got more tight in the United States it would affect other
countries around us and across the world.
Across the world down under, Gun control has been put into play and affected
the people there and around the world. On August 31, 1998, (Miguel) Australia started
its buy back of all the guns owned by its citizens. They made stricter Gun laws making
it illegal for law abiding citizens to own firearms and ammunition. They attempted to
satisfy people with paying them for their guns that they had to give back. The Australian
Government was hoping that it would decrease crime and make Australia a better place.
When you look at the statistics and graphs of crime levels before and after the buy back
of guns the crime went up. Above is a graph of the Assault rate before and after the buy
back was put into action, 17 percent it went up. Not only did the rate of assault went up
but robbery and armed robbery went up as well. Armed robbery went up 73 percent
and robbery went up 28 percent. Burglary though went down. Homicide and Murder
rates on the other hand did not change either way. Kidnapping went up 38 percent and
manslaughter went up 29 percent(Miguel). It seems that with or without guns a society
Sallaway
will not be affected, but it is the type of person or the nature of the society that needs to
change not the gun laws. Not only did the crime rates get affected but the functioning of
the society was affected by
the buy back of guns in
Australia. The unemployment
level did go down which is
good but I am not sure if it
was caused by the buy back
of the guns, I am not sure if I
see any kind of connection in those. The crime rates did go up. The amount of welfare
given out went up as well once the buy back happened. All these things have a fairly
important have an impact on the society that the Government was trying to fix, and they
are not exactly good affects either. When welfare demand goes up and then you just
gave money away to buy back all the guns in the country, this would put the country in a
great amount of debt or lack of money that could be used for better causes(Mukherjee).
The people of every nation needs a way of protecting their selves against their
Government, because no matter how long or how civilized the government has been
they have some of the greatest potential to bring the most pain, corruption, and power
hold on citizens.
One instance that the Government gained too much power and used it in a very
negative way is in the case of Ruby Ridge. This was a very tragic and sad thing that
happened to a family of 3 girls a boy and their parents, the Weaver family. They had
moved out into the wilderness of Idaho after being fed up with the present world. They
Sallaway
wanted a very basic and peaceful lifestyle opposite to what they had been experiencing
in the city areas. The area in which they moved was very big in white supremacy views
and very anti government. The family was not completely behind the views their new
community held but the since of family and depending on their selves was what
attracted them to the area. They would grow their own food and lived on a ridge in a
house they built themselves. Their new community was very close knit and welcomed
all new people into it. An Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearm (ATF) official at one point came
into their community undercover and built a 2 year and personal relationship with the
Weaver family. His true identity was discovered after he asked Weaver to saw off two
shot gun barrels for him.(This is illegal to do) Randy Weaver did this before he knew he
was an undercover ATF officer. Once the ATF officer s cover was blown the head of the
ATF mission came to Randy and asked him to become a rat amongst his friends and
new family community. Randy of course said no and this caused a huge uproar
between him and the ATF officials. He did not show up to his court date for his sawed
off shot gun case because he was set up and felt that there was no real case in that.
Since he did not show up the Government now saw him as a fugitive and set out to
catch him and find him guilty. The Weaver family had a paranoia that the Government
was watching them, which was instilled by their Right winged radical community, this
soon came true. The ATF video taped over 100 hours of the Weaver family at their
home. It captured them all carrying guns from their house to their shed to other parts of
their property. One day the ATF officers got to close to their home and their dogs
started barking in an unusual way. Randy, his 14 year old son Sam, and a family friend
who was staying with them who was 23 Kevin, set out with their rifles to see what the
Sallaway
dogs were barking at. The two boys separated from Randy. Randy was walking in a
valley and saw a ATF officer stand up in all camouflage, he yelled to stop him but Randy
ran and yelled to his boys to get home. Randy once out of site of the officer, started
shooting in the air to try and get the boys attention even more. When they all got back
to the cabin they discovered that their 14 year old son had been shot in the back while
he was trying to run away from an ATF officer. Things calmed down for a while giving
the Weaver family time to get their son clean him and put their dead son in the shed till
they could burry him. An ATF member that got away during the shot out called for help
saying that the Weaver family had trapped them and ambushed them. This was when
the 11 day stand off started. The FBI was called in along with more ATF officers and
Federal Marshals. Among all of these men for a family of 6 and a friend they also had
the elite snipers brought in that are supposedly the best in the world. Several days later
Randy s Wife, Vicci, was holding the door open after Randy had been shot in the
shoulder while opening the shed to check on their son s body. As Randy and Kevin ran
in with the oldest daughter between them a sniper shot Vicci in the head which then hit
Kevin in the arm and torso. The family was then determined to die defending their
mother and brother s honor. The family was finally negotiated with to give up and the
two men were taken to get medical help then to jail. When their trials happened Kevin
was determined not guilty and Randy was only guilty for the sawed off shot gun charges
which gave him 18 months in prison but ended up staying 21 months. The family later
on sewed the Government for the loss of their mother and son, they won but got only
3. 1 million dollars after a 200 million dollar lawsuit. The point of this story is not that the
Government had to pay millions of dollars to a family, but the point is that the family had
Sallaway
to even go through such a thing. That they were set up, watched, and then killed for
really no true and life or death reason. The ATF should be catching people that are
really doing something illegal and not setting people up to look like they are catching
true criminals. Gun laws would not have prevented this but would have made the
Government even more elite and the Weaver family even more out numbered. The
Weaver family was a typical American family, Randy did mess up and saw off the
barrels of two shot guns but is that a reason to kill his wife and son over? The answer is
No, if they wanted to arrest him they should have or they should have seen their
mistake in the fact that they set him up to do it and let it go. The Government at this
point had too much freewill and power over the Weaver family and Ruby Ridge situation
that they became elite and dominated them(Grier).
Just like this one part of the United States Government got way too much power
in one little situation, so is the Government in a whole getting it in the present day. As of
this last month the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing & Record of Sale Act of 2009 has come
up. President Obama and others in office have decide to try to make this pass. This
new bill states that,
"it would be illegal to own a firearm - any rifle with a clip or ANY pistol unless: It is
registered, You are fingerprinted, You supply a current Driver's License, You supply your
Social Security #, You will submit to a physical & mental evaluation at any time of their
choosing, Each update - change or ownership through private or public sale must be
reported and costs $25" (Sallaway).
If you do not do this you automatically have no right to own a firearm and are liable to
spend up to a year in jail. Along with this bill comes section 305 page 16, stating that if
Sallaway
there is a child in the house or present you must have the gun locked up and no one
under 18 can shoot(Sallaway). I find this ridicules because my dad was taking all four
of us kids out to shoot when I was about 10 years old. It is the parents right to raise
their children not the Government to raise them. The Government, if this bill was
passed, would be aloud to come into a home without a warrant and search the house to
see if you were storing your guns properly. The consciences if you were caught not
doing this is 5 years in prison. Prison is completely different then jail, it was designed
for harden criminals. There are countless reasons why I do not like this bill and how it
proves my point that the United States should not have such strict gun control laws.
One, it shows that once they take away our right to own a gun and have it in our home
they can come in and search whenever they please taking our right away to deny the
Government or police access to our home without a warrant. Second, why would you
want your guns locked up if you have them for safety? If someone comes into your
home trying to rob or hurt you, you cannot ask them to wait while you get your gun out
of the safe. Third, it gives the Government way to much power not only to take rights
away but just to make decisions and like things without even asking the people of the
nation. This is a perfect example of why I think that Gun Control only leads to more
trouble then good when put into action.
When the Government has too much power it takes away the peoples right to be
a human being and think and act for themselves. The belief of some American s, not
all, is that if you take away the only defense we the people have then the Government
will take the rest of our rights and freedoms that we are entitled to, according to the Bill
of Rights. It is true that if America has Gun Control it will affect the entire world. The
Sallaway
gang wars in Mexico will be affected. It will not be in a positive way though. When the
Australian government tried to enforce Gun control it resulted in a higher crime level.
Now the United States government is trying to enforce a slow but deadly Gun Control
bill. It is our right and our job to stand up to the Government and tell them we disagree
before they take away any more of our rights.
Sallaway
