Brynn Foree
ENG 105
Davalos
May 1, 2009
EUTHANASIA:
End the Suffering
Consider the thought of having to spend the rest of your life lying in a hospital bed, being attended to every moment by nurses, and attached to many different machines that are waiting to capture the moment your soul finally gives out on your body. Now, think about all the things you would rather be doing for the rest of your life. Most people would say they would rather die than live an unfulfilled life. That is a choice we as humans have the right to make. Whether to be or not to be? Is it better to be alive, unconscious and paralyzed, or dead? If I was put to that decision, I must say I just might choose death. So would many people in the world. Many times, suicide is the best way out. That is what Euthanasia, or assisted suicide, does for people. It brings to them to a calmness and contentment that they would not feel otherwise. No one wants to suffer. Assisting a person in their own suicide is completely acceptable, in my mind, after the consent of said person to end their own suffering.
Definition and Types of Euthanasia
Euthanasia is a commonly incorrectly defined word. According to Webster's Dictionary, the term "Euthanasia" is derived from the Greek word for "good death." Euthanasia
Foree 2
defined as the act or practice of putting to death painlessly a person suffering from an incurable disease. (Webster) The term is also often referred to as mercy killing. However, the definition
has become more restricted over the years. Today, the definition has been changed to include the requirement that there must be consent and competent understanding of what the victim is about to do to oneself.
As Euthanasia is a diverse subject, it is classified variously. According to Azete, a website designed for posting medical information; there are four forms of Euthanasia. The most common form is passive, or death by removal of certain life prolonging devices (Azete). The different examples of passive Euthanasia include removing life support, discontinuing the use of medications, cutting off nutrition supply, and the use of morphine to rid the pain of the terminally ill. The second form of assisted suicide is the active form, or mercy killing by request of the victim, normally in times of extreme pain, suffering, or in a condition that renders them with a lack of a fulfilling life (Azete). The third is the assistance of a physician (Azete). This is the recommendation of ending life by a professional, or "putting to sleep" in other words. The last, and possibly the least commonly known form, is involuntary, which is assistance without consent of the patient and is considered murder (Azete). Having these four classifications makes it easier to identify reasonability and actions to take in certain cases.
Foree 3
Controversy and the Law
There has been an ongoing debate on this subject in the courts and law. Is it right for only terminally ill patients? Should others be able to make the decision to terminate life of another when the victim is physically incapable to consent? These questions have been turned over and over, with still no real conclusions. Legally, there are certain means that have to be met to determine whether a person has assisted someone in committing suicide. Joel Ruechel,
prosecuting attorney for Navajo County, says, "A person simply being present when someone is committing suicide would not be considered manslaughter. According to law, assisted suicide is when a person intentionally aids in another person ending his or her life." (Ruechel) There are different criteria to pay attention to in a Euthanasia situation.
Although suicide is illegal in most states today, Euthanasia has been ruled as a different law situation from suicide entirely. The World Book Encyclopedia informs that in 1990, the Supreme Court ruled that patients have the right to passive Euthanasia if they have clearly expressed their desire to die and made their wishes knows. These wishes are stated in writing on legal documents called living wills. In these wills, an individual can state what care they would like if they are unable to express their wishes in the event of injury or disease. People normally name one or two people as decision makers for their medical needs in these wills (World Book Encyclopedia). Many religious leaders opposed this ruling, but one, Bishop John Shelby Spong, for example, praised it, saying, "The right to a good death is a basic human freedom. The Supreme Court's decision to uphold aid in dying allows us to view and act on death as a dignified
Foree 4
moral and godly choice for those suffering with terminal illnesses." (PAS) Although the Supreme Court has passed a ruling, it is still a matter of great debate.
As of today, the practice of Euthanasia is only legal in America in the state of Oregon. And even then, only legal for physicians are permitted to assist in the suicide of their patients.
Reported by the Department of Human Services, in November of 1994, the citizens of Oregon voted on the "Death with Dignity Act," which came into effect on October 27th, 1997. The act
would allow terminally ill Oregonians to commit suicide through voluntary self-administration of lethal medications. These medications are to be prescribed expressly by a certified Oregon doctor for that purpose and only if the patient is terminally ill with no likelihood of survival (Department of Human Services). What can be understood is that, as with every law, there are limitations.
Over the years, there have been many controversial issues concerning the legality of Euthanasia. This is especially true in the area of professional decisions. Perhaps the most famous case of a physician to ever be prosecuted for assisted suicide to be brought to court was the case of Dr. Jack Kevorkian. In Sujit Varma's "Mini-Biography of Jack Kevorkian," he states that Kevorkian was nicknamed "Dr. Death" in 1956, after already intriguing his fellow associates with his study of photographs of the retinas of patients at the moment of death to differentiate between coma and death. On June 4th, 1990, Kevorkian performed his first assisted suicide or "medicide" on a 54 year-old woman suffering from Alzheimer's disease. (Varma) Kevorkian felt he was justified because the woman had a right to her own life.
Foree 5
There are certain ways to actually assist in a suicide, and Kevorkian was the inventor of one of them. In a PBS television special, "The Kevorkian Verdict," this was performed by her request and by her own hand, using a device invented by Kevorkian in 1989 called a "thanatron." (Seen at the end of this paragraph) The machine was designed so the victim could trigger the mechanism on their own, releasing first an anesthetic, then a major dose of lethal drugs into their
system. The individual would essentially die of a heart attack in their sleep (Kevorkian Verdict). Kevorkian went on with his proceedings such as this until he was charged with murder on August 17th, 1993. Kevorkian claimed it was difficult to watch people suffer when it was unnecessary and unwanted. Kevorkian was sentenced to 10-25 years in prison after assisting in over 100 "medicides." He has since been released on June 1st, 2007 after serving eight years. (Varma) Kevorkian may have given the sufferers the means to an end, but never once did he pull the trigger himself.
Foree 6
We have all heard the news during the past few years, and the most recent controversy of the decades involving Euthanasia is the Terri Schiavo case. The Notable Names Database reported that in 1990, Schiavo entered a vegetative state after suffering severe braid damage as a result of a potassium deficiency from her bulimia. After some years and much debate, Schiavo's
doctors explained that there existed no hope for rehabilitation. (NNDB) Schiavo's husband decided that was not the way Schiavo would have wanted to spend the rest of her life.
Many times, decisions like performing Euthanasia can start a serious family confrontation. What brought this issue to the Supreme Court was the wish of Schiavo's husband to remove her feeding tube. He claimed his wife would not want to be kept alive by unnatural or mechanical support. Schiavo's parents did not agree and appealed their son-in-law's case. The issue was twenty times sent to the Supreme Court, and all twenty times, they had ruled for Schiavo's husband. Schiavo's tube was removed on March 18th, 2007 and she died on March 31st, 2007 (NNDB). Schiavo was finally able to rest in peace.
When and Why is it Justified
These last two cases of Euthanasia bring to life another strong debate; if Euthanasia were legalized and considered the right thing to do, where would the line be determined between
justifiable and murder? These have been many different theories. However, all these theories have two things in common; they all include suffering and consent.
Foree 7
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy lists several qualifications for a legal Euthanasia. Advocates for voluntary Euthanasia have come up with five concise requirements for a person to qualify for justifiable assisted suicide. These are:
1. Terminally ill
2. Unlikely to benefit from any cures discovered in the remained of their lives
3. Is suffering intolerable pain or has a burdensome life, either for themselves of for their relatives
4. Has a completely conscientious and competent desire to die, or, before losing competence, expressed that wish in the event that the above terms were met
5. Is unable to commit suicide without help
The Encyclopedia states that after these requirements are met, then and only then "there should be legal and medical provision to enable them to be allowed to die or assisted to die." (Stanford, 1) These requirements are seen to make the Euthanasia decision moral.
Nevertheless, these qualifications do have restrictions. The term "terminally ill" does not refer to people who have been in accidents and were left handicapped or people showing only the early signs of disease. Some would suggest that the life expectancy of a person is impossible to predict, but this statement is somewhat false. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy reads that Euthanasia normally possible to say when someone's health status is incurable. "Miracle" cures may be spoken of but medical breakthrough progress is typically far too slow for a cure to be
Foree 8
found in time to save many. (Stanford, 2) The reality is that the Euthanasia decision comes to what is the most logical way to help a person who cannot be helped.
Another argument one could make was the Euthanasia of animals. When our pet gets old, diseased, and frail, what do we do? We take them to the vet and have them put to sleep. These animals are put out of their misery. And for many people, having to do this to a pet is just as painful as losing a human loved one. In Dr. T.J. Dunn, Jr.'s book, "Euthanasia. What to Expect," he describes the process as someone natural that needs to be done for a loved one. "The time inevitably does come. And we as pet owners simply have to face our pet's mortality." (Dunn) When people request to die, they are simply realizing their fate. They face the fact that it may just be time for them to die. Why deny them that intelligence and life epiphany?
Most people would ask for the chance to make this decision on their own. "Who's life is it anyway?" was the exclamation by the late Sue Rodrigues, a high-profile terminally ill resident of British Columbia, Canada who suffered from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. She believed she had a right to decide when it was her time, and whether or not she should have to put up with her pain. She was helped to commit suicide by a physician in violation of Canadian law in the presence of a Parliament member: an act of which neither was prosecuted. (PAS) The law has no right to determine whether a person should endure months, even years, of pain and torturous feelings. That would not be a resolution taken lightly and applying to everyone.
Foree 9
The great thing about this country is that the first rights we were ever given by the Constitution were the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Is that not the purpose of the use of Euthanasia? When used under moral standards and correct grounds, Euthanasia can be a soul-saver in itself. We have the right to be free from pain, and do what we want to make us happy. If that means we would be happier in the next life, so be it. We also have a right to our lives. We should have the right to choose to end that life as well.
Foree 10
Work Cited
Department of Human Services. 6 Sept. 2007. http://www.oregon.gov/DHS/ph/pas/faqs.shtml
Dunn, Dr. T.J., Jr. "Euthanasia. What to Expect." 6 Sept. 2007. http://www.thepetcenter.com/imtop/euthanasia.htm
"Euthanasia." The World Book Encyclopedia. International ed.
"Information on Euthanasia." azete.com. 26 Aug., 2007. http://www.azete.com/view/64745
Interview with Joel Ruechel, Prosecutor. 19 Sept., 2007. Phone.
"Kevorkian Verdict, The." PBS. 6 Sept. 2007. http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/Kevorkian/aboutk
"Physician Assisted Suicide (PAS)." religioustolerance.org. 4 Sept. 2007. http://www.religioustolerance.org/euthanas.htm
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 18 April, 1996. Revised 19 Feb. 2007. 6 Sept. 2007. http://plato.stanford.edu/entrieis/euthanasia-voluntary
"Terri Schiavo." nndb.com. 8 Sept. 2007. http://www.nndb.com/people/435/000026357
Varma, Sujit R. "Mini-biography of Jack Kevorkian." The Internet Movie Database. 8 Sept. 2007. http://www.imdb.com/name/nm1535170/bio
