Print vs. Online Newspapers
Virginia Carico
English 105
Professor Victoria Clark-Sanchez
April 24, 2009
The Technological Age is upon us. The days of going to the mall to buy clothes, using the mail to pay bills and subscribing to the local newspaper to read the news are coming to an end. Reliability and usage of the Internet has increased tremendously in the past 10 years. This new technology has trumped many traditional institutions in terms of practicality, access and pricing. Author of "The Vanishing Newspaper: Saving Journalism in the Information Age," Philip Meyer compares the Internet to Gutenberg's invention of movable type. The limitless possibilities, convenience and accessibility of the Internet is having a devastating affect on journalists and newspaper companies, just as movable type affected the town criers of the 15th century. The dilemma has also developed into a moral issue: Should readers pay for a newspaper subscription and support local and national journalists, or get the same stories by the same journalists for free via the Internet? The answer seems painfully obvious. Newspaper companies have become accustomed and are now expected to share their content on their websites as well as in the paper version. The future of the newspaper on paper is up in the air, and many journalists and researchers have concluded that a drastic change is near. However, some still hold hope that the newspaper companies can reinvent their style and accessibility and stay alive. Predictions of online Pay Pal accounts for the purchase of newspaper articles to electronic devices solely to read newspapers and magazines have all been discussed. The design and convenience of these new mediums are forcing newspaper companies to be innovative and new. One thing is for certain, a change for the newspaper companies is underway, and the newspaper on paper as we know it is becoming an archaic object, a relic of a bygone era.
Philip Meyers argues that the convenience and cost of getting and giving information via the Internet is giving newspaper companies a run for their money. Although newspaper companies have been known to receive a large portion of revenue from advertising and have support from local agencies, support from these systems is also decreasing tremendously. ".[C]lassified ads moved from 18 percent of newspaper advertising revenue in 1950 to 40 percent in 2000," however the development of websites such as Craigslist is sending these percentages, yet again, in a downward spiral (Meyer, 2008). Meyers wants to get the message out there that there are still ways to maintain the newspaper company, despite this, and journalists aren't giving up easily. He suggests that the "newspaper endgame [should] concentrate on retaining newspapers' core of trust and responsibility" (Meyers, 2008). Any Average Joe can sit at home on his laptop and publish stories full of slander and inaccuracy, but trained journalists are always going to be needed to write vital, undiscovered truths. It has been debated whether or not online and paper editions of the newspaper compete or complement each other. In an article titled "An Explorative Study on the Market Relation Between Online and Print Newspapers," Chyi and Lasorsa discuss this.
Chyi's and Lasorsa's study focuses on the market relation and readership of online and print newspaper based on six local and national newspapers found in Austin, TX. Surprisingly, it was discovered that many people who read the print edition also accessed the online version and vice versa. During an interview with Flagstaff's Arizona Daily Sun, publisher Don Rowley said, ".[f]or the most part, we have seen our online audience add to and complement our current readership base rather than replace it. There is plenty of historical evidence to support the notion that emerging media doesn't necessarily replace existing media. Television didn't altogether replace radio and movie rental stores didn't put movie theaters out of business. I believe there's room for an expanding online audience alongside the traditional newspaper audience. I think it's safe to predict that newspapers will continue to evolve" (personal interview). On the other hand, "[t]he print edition often serves as the primary content provider for the online edition, and similar information is published in two formats.[h]owever, critics have been accusing online newspapers of producing shovelware (i.e., publishing whatever is in the print edition online without repackaging the information)" (Chyi, Lasorsa. 2002). If this is the case, the Internet versions are sabotaging and stealing content from the print newspaper and further harming a chance at equal distribution and readership. Gentzkow is also curious if the online world complements or competes with the newspaper on paper in his article Valuing New Goods in a Model with Complementarity: Online Newspapers.
Gentzkow's hypothesis is much like Don Rowley's belief that new technology doesn't necessarily replace existing ones. However, he found by the end of his study, that online and print newspapers do not have a complementary relationship and ".print and online papers are clearly substitutes" (Gentzkown, 2007). He "estimate[s] that the online paper reduced print readership by 27,000 per day, at cost of $5. 5 million per year in lost print profits" (Gentzkown, 2007). In regards to the predicted success or failure of charging for online content, however, Gentzkow discovered that the potential gain of charging for online content essentially wouldn't have much impact on newspaper companies. If nothing else, charging for online newspapers would just turn people off to online content. This contrasts with Chyi's idea that attempting to charge for online newspapers is looked down upon and has only seen failure in the past. Another study by Chyi explores the economic implications and the possible business plans being discussed by newspaper companies to charge for their online edition.
This study by Chyi titled Willingness to pay for online news: an empirical study on the viability of the subscription model strengthens her study from 2002 with Lasorsa. Again, just like Gentzkow's discoveries, evidence from this study suggests charging for online content would not work. "A random-sample telephone survey of 853 Hong Kong residents found very few users actually responded to paying content and had no intent to pay in the future" (Chyi, 2005). It's obvious to assume that people aren't very enthusiastic about paying for online news because they have already become accustomed to retrieving news for free via the Internet. ".[O]nline users said they were reluctant to pay for online news access because free alternatives existed online and offline, as revealed by the open-ended question, meaning users did not perceive online news as something with unique value" (Chyi, 2005). This is surprising since the number of people relying on the online editions for the news has increased so tremendously since 1996 (Figure 1). However, this idea does relate back to Meyer's conclusion that no matter what, people will still need reliable journalists. It can be assumed that these people are also browsing and retrieving news from the wrong sites, because if the right web sources are accessed the Internet can be an incredible tool for obtaining news and keeping informed (Chyi, 2005). Journalist Walter Isaacson seems to have a differing viewpoint on that topic, and suggests that in order to gain profit, newspaper companies should charge citizens in order to access the online edition (Isaacson, 2009).
In his article How to Save Your Newspaper, Isaacson addresses the issue of paying for print newspaper subscriptions or accessing the same information for free on the Internet. "Newspapers have more readers than ever.especially among young people.[t]he problem is that fewer of these consumers are paying" (Isaacson, 2009). Young people are more intrigued by the news and events of the world than ever before, but this generation has adapted to the idea of using the Internet instead of a print newspaper to obtain such information. Isaacson's solution to this dilemma is to have newspaper companies charge for online content and claims the Wall Street Journal found success with monthly subscriptions in 2008 (Isaacson, 2009). However, this success contradicts with Chyi's, Losorsa's, and Genyzkow's predictions that subscriptions would only turn people off and force them to obtain free news in some other way, similar to downloading music illegally. Senior writer for Fortune magazine, Michael Copeland, agrees that paying for online content will most likely not see success, but only anger those who are already used to free online newspapers. Perhaps, the answer is not in online subscriptions at all, some journalists and newspaper companies believe there is still hope to save their business, but a new refreshed idea needs to be developed.
CEO of google.com released in a press conference that he sees the future of newspapers in advertising. He expressed his opinion about the decreasing quality of journalistic work and urges newspapers to be innovative in reinventing the news (Spagat, 2009). He offers a unique standpoint about the online newspaper. "From my perspective, the online experience can be thought of as terrible compared to what I view as this wonderful experience with magazines and newspapers," he said (Spagat, 2009). One aspect that is often pushed aside is that there are still many people who enjoy the old fashioned newspaper on paper. However, the inevitability of the death of this medium is forcing newspaper companies to reinvent their image and seek new ways to reach readers. The newest technology sought after to become the answer to newspaper companies dilemma is called the e-paper.
In Copeland's article, The end of paper? he addresses the issue of charging for online content and concludes that the "[t]rouble is, except for i Tunes, consumers have shown little inclination to use micropayments when it comes to content" (Copeland, 2009). He suggests that the future of the newspaper is neither on paper or online. He introduces the idea of an e-paper device, which would be used to access any newspaper or magazine in the world for one monthly subscription cost. Copeland's intent is to provide an unusual solution to the dilemma facing newspaper companies, and suggest that the answer maybe not be black or white, print or online, but perhaps a whole new medium. The idea of an e-paper device seems convenient, fresh and reliable. These devices are wireless e-readers that would allow people to access numerous newspapers and magazines onto an "8- by 11-inch plastic screen" (Copeland, 2009). "Buying paper and ink, printing, and delivering a newspaper or magazine can account for more than 50% of the overall cost of producing the periodical. E-readers also turn out to be good for the environment-fewer trees are cut down to make paper" (Copeland, 2009). This would not only please newspaper companies but environmentalists alike. The challenges with these devices are developing a design that is easy to use and convenient to access.
An article by Ihlstrom, Akesson, and Nordqvist titled From Print to Web to e-paper- the challenge of designing the e-newspaper, different layout and formatting options for this e-paper are presented. The e-paper device seems to be widely accepted by publishers and editors alike because it combines the traditional medium with the electronic twist the younger generation seems to crave (Ihlstrom, 2004). The authors questioned many different groups of people to examine which characteristics people would like to see in an e-paper device in order to use it as a replacement for the newspaper or online news. They concluded that while ".there is great potential.the newspaper designers now stand before the greatest design challenge since Gutenberg" (Ihlstrom, 2004). In order for this medium to succeed it will have to offer more than the newspaper on print does. If this design challenge is accomplished any time soon, it is predicted that it will be at least a decade before readers adopt this e-paper and completely get rid of the print version. Critics of this device claim that "[d]espite all advantages of the e-newspaper it will probably not be easy to replace the printed edition since users often stick to experienced ways and behaviors" (Ihlstrom, 2004). If that were the case, wouldn't the online newspaper have taken a much longer time to adapt to? A study by Bush and Gilbert titled The Web as a Medium: An Explanatory Comparison of Internet Users Versus Newspaper Readers, explored what personality types were more drawn to the Internet and what characteristics were more common in people who preferred the newspaper.
Based on the study, it was found that people who used the Internet over a newspaper to obtain news, were more materialistic. Also, individuals absorbed with the Internet had lower self-esteem than those who read the newspaper. Finally, people who used the Internet, instead of a newspaper, were less likely to show an interest in volunteering for charitable organizations. The lack of interest in volunteering is assumed to correlate with their minimal interest in local news and events. Citizens who show an interest in the procedures of the local community are more likely to provide time and assistance to support local groups and activities. Oddly enough, ".the Web.has been adopted by users faster than any other medium in history.it took radio more than 30 years to reach 50 million listeners.the Internet reached 50 million users in less than five years" (Bush, Gilbert. 2002). Figure 1 (page 5) shows the increase of adults in the United States who have adopted the Internet as a new medium from 1996-2006. In regards to Bush's study, what does that say about the personality types of many Americans? Some journalists and publishers believe that the Internet is not necessarily competing for readers. Their hope is that perhaps the Internet complements the newspaper on paper and is increasing readership and accessibility of resources.
In 2006, Michael Kinsley wrote Do Newspapers have a Future? which explored his predictions for newspaper companies. Similar to Meyer's argument, Kinsley believes that there will always be a need for professional journalists, and the world cannot depend on the blog sites and technologically inclined people of the world for their news. He is certain that, "[n]ewspapers on paper are on the way out. Whether newspaper companies are on the way out too depends" (Kinsley, 2006). The companies that conform and accept their fate will most likely see more success than ever. Figure 2 illustrates the decreasing percentage of people who read the print newspaper from 1990-2004. Based on this evidence, Kinsley's predictions are right; the newspaper on paper is more recently and rapidly losing its readership.
The general tone surrounding this issue is that the print newspaper is on the way out and the Internet version is here to stay. Many newspaper companies already have an online edition, and it may only be a matter of time before the online edition is officially the only version. However, many newspaper companies are looking towards the creation of a completely new medium to bring the news to their readers. While the e-newspaper is still a long way away from being the only means of obtaining the news, many publishers are exciting about its appearance on the scene. The college-age generation is engulfed with the Internet and other technologies of the world; it seems unlikely they would take two steps back to adapt to a medium used by their grandparents. Hence, in the years to come it is likely the newspaper on paper will no longer be a main source in retrieving news. However, there are journalists and publishers like Don Rowley who believe there is still hope for the newspaper's survival and there is a chance that the Internet can support and increase readership and interest of the news instead of demolish it all together.
