Samantha Steuby
30 April 2009
ENG 105
Extended Argument Essay
ONE STEP FORWARD, TWO STEPS BACK:
Hispanic Americans and Voter Disenfranchisement in the 21st Century
As Americans, we have been brought up with the idea that our nation is 'the land of opportunity.' As Americans we are also brought up, ideally, to value the ideals of freedom, democracy, and equality among all people. However, over time one begins to realize that these ideals are truer for certain people rather than others. In subtle ways unbeknownst to many besides the minorities affected, the U.S. Government continues to work against the interests of minority groups, such as Hispanics/Latinos, Native Americans, and African Americans. Many may argue that this claim of inequality is an issue for past generations, that the American Government has changed its laws to affirm racial equality. However despite changes to laws that demonstrated a blatant form of racism, the rules by which our government institutions operate demonstrate a subtle form of Institutional Racism.
For those not familiar with the term, as outlined in John Farley's textbook "Majority-Minority Relations," "Institutionalized Racism" is when the laws or practices of one group, usually the majority group or whoever happens to be in power, create barriers or obstacles either consciously or by default that marginalize and make it difficult for the minority group to obtain power or resources within that society. (Farley, 2005) So in other words, Institutionalized Racism is absolutely legal discrimination based on race. For example, as explained in Cassandra Newman's article "A Brief History of Voting Rights in America," due to fear of the growing Hispanic/Latino population and the illegal immigrants that make up a significant and growing portion of the American workforce, the American government refuses in many cases to reform the immigration policies already in place, and so preventing or making it very difficult for someone to gain citizenship. (Newman, 2004) This failure to address immigration reform for Mexican Americans marginalizes this segment of our population, and this marginalization of Mexican Americans is an example of de facto racial discrimination (discrimination that occurs despite the fact that it may be illegal) and as such Institutional Racism. This Institutional Racism directed towards the Hispanic/Latino population is especially evident when we look at modern America's voting system.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
To better understand the context of the current evidence for racial discrimination in voting in 21st century America, we must look at our history in race relations and voting rights. Since the beginning of civilization, humans have found ways to categorize one another. This categorization is not by any means innately malicious, it is simply a way for humans to try and understand their world through organizing things within that world. However, when one starts to apply sweeping generalizations to a group of people and then find ways to discriminate based on those generalizations and choose to ignore the individual nature of a person, it is then that issues start to arise. America is no exception to this trend, with one of the most well known manifestations being the nation's history of slavery.
Slavery was essentially the start of Institutionalized Racism in the United States of America. While slavery was eventually abolished in 1865 with the creation of the 13th Amendment, this abuse of human rights would be carried on into what is known as the "Jim Crow" era. The Jim Crow era was America's revival of institutionalized racism at its finest. Along with this separation of races, came drastically different standards of treatment and respect. These practices were finally contested with success during the Civil Rights movement of the 1960's, and after years of hatred and violence, the Voting Rights Act allowing African-Americans to vote nationwide was signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965. ("Time and Place") The Voting Rights Act and other laws that grew from the Civil Rights movement made it very hard to be outwardly racist. Couple the legal punishment of Civil Rights laws with societal pressure to not be seen as racist, and discrimination took on a more subtle tone as a result. Since it was no longer "legal" to discriminate based on race, de facto racial discrimination started to show up. This is the same kind of de facto racial discrimination that we can find today in our voting system in regard to any minority group to some extent, but especially the Hispanic/Latino population.
VOTER TURNOUT AND POPULATION PROPORTION
Pinpointing evidence for modern day racial discrimination against Hispanics, or any minority for that matter, is lot harder than it was back in the days where American society and its laws were much more openly and blatantly racist. In the 21st century, it is socially unacceptable, as well as technically illegal, to be outwardly racist and discriminatory in any form. This leads to more subtle ways of discriminating, such as abusing loopholes written into state and federal laws, as well as de facto racial discrimination.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Hispanic population of the United States reached 45. 5 million on July 1st of 2007, thus not only making the Hispanic population 15.1% of the total U.S. population by estimate, but also making them the largest minority group surpassing both African Americans and Asians. (Bernstein, 2008) The Hispanic population has more than tripled in the past several years. Yet the percentage of registered voters has stayed relatively the same, making the voter turnout disproportionate to the size and rapid growth of the population. In other words the number of voters should be increasing at the same rate that the population is increasing, but it is not (See Fig. 1). Why is that? As suggested in Julia Preston's article "Hispanics Seek Citizenship in Time for Voting," many bureaucrats would like you to believe that the lack of voters is due to the relative youth of the population as well as the vast number of illegal immigrants who have yet to obtain citizenship status. (Preston, 2008) Parts of this claim may be true, but in regard to citizenship, who is at fault, the population or the government? As Jon Garrido suggests in his article "Racism Killed Immigration Reform," it is a complicated issue, but at the heart of it all are racially discriminative voting, immigration, and naturalization processes targeting the Hispanic/Latino population. (Garrido, 2007) These racially discriminative processes are an outgrowth of institutionalized racism, which then in practice becomes de facto racial discrimination in the voting system.
Figure 1: Total Hispanic Population vs. Total of Registered Voters (Garrido, 2007)
IMMIGRATION POLICIES
The government is actually rather vague on their immigration policies, at least enough to leave room for states (if done subtly enough) to make up their own policies and abuse the loopholes in the system in order to further discriminate against the Hispanic/Latino population and other minorities. However, Judge James M. Munley of the Central Pennsylvania District in addressing the mayor of Hazelton, Pennsylvania for his abuse of "freelance immigration policies" has this to say about the issue:
"First, immigration is a federal responsibility. State and local governments have no right to usurp or upend a vast, 'carefully drawn federal statutory scheme' that governs who enters the country and the conditions under which immigrants stay, study, work and naturalize. Congress may be botching the job, but has not delegated it (Garrido, 2007)."
Going by what Judge Munley stated, not only are many states within our nation committing de facto racial discrimination towards Hispanics but our federal government is just as responsible, by not reforming the system in a way that better defines what is allowed and what is not as far as these polices go. One could even argue that the federal government is avoiding making positive changes to the immigration policies simply because they do not want to change the status quo, because that way America can still exploit the cheap labor that the illegal migrant workers provide and they do not have to give these people any benefits such as health care and insurance or pay them decently because they do not have any official rights as a U.S. citizen.
One could go on to argue that the current U.S. government might share a similar viewpoint to former American president John Adams concerning voter enfranchisement, who had this to say about the issue:
"Depend upon it, Sir, it is dangerous to open so fruitful a source of controversy and altercation as would be opened by attempting to alter the qualifications of voters; there will be no end to it. New claims will arise; women will demand the vote; lads from 12 to 21 will think their rights not enough attended to; and every man who has not a farthing, will demand an equal voice with any other, in all acts of state. It tends to confound and destroy all distinctions, and prostrate all ranks to one common level (Crews, 2007)."
Most people would beg to differ that equality, or a "common level," among all people is a bad thing, yet the laws and policies set up by our very own government tend to show a leniency towards wanting to maintain the "status quo" and maintain the current inequalities that Hispanic Americans are subject to everyday. Plus, if more of these illegal immigrants become American citizens, then that could potentially shift the balance of power and possibly lessen the availability of "cheap labor," which the government seems to want to keep in place. Whether or not this is the actual case, these government policies are racially discriminative whether they publicly intend to be or not, purely because they are denying resources to a particular group based on race. However, evidence to support this claim continues to show up. As reported by Jon Garrido in his article "Racism Killed Immigration Reform,"
"The recent immigration debate in the Senate, which ended with the defeat of a bill that would have given a path to citizenship to many of the 12 million undocumented workers, has given way to the biggest explosion of anti-Hispanic sentiment we have ever seen in America (Garrido, 2007)."
And the Hispanic population is feeling the heat. According to a nationwide poll done by Bendixen and Associates, "76 percent of U.S. Hispanics agree with the statement that 'anti-immigrant sentiment is growing in the United States,' and 62 percent say this phenomenon has directly affected them or their families (Preston, 2008)." This kind of anti-Hispanic sentiment, even if only supported by a small percentage of Americans, leaves the door wide open for even more harshly discriminatory laws to be written and for the continued and unfortunate use of this group of people as our national scapegoat.
THE NATURALIZATION PROCESS
Current immigration policies, besides creating harsh feelings towards the Hispanic population in general regardless of citizenship, are also taking a toll on the voting process. Many new immigrants, in light of the upcoming 2008 election, have taken all the necessary steps towards naturalization. But, as reported in Julia Preston's article "Hispanics Seek Citizenship in Time for Voting," due to backlogging in the government's processing of the applications, a lawsuit was filed by Hispanic immigrants in order to ".force immigration authorities to complete hundreds of thousands of stalled naturalization petitions in time for the new citizens to vote in November." It is said that over "one million citizenship petitions were backed up in the pipeline by the end of December [2007], the majority from Hispanic immigrants (Preston, 2008)." Yet the government still fails to respond in many cases. In the words of Cesar A. Perales, president of the Defense Fund, "It is astonishing the government should be so unresponsive to immigrants who have enthusiastically taken all the steps to become Americans (Preston, 2008)." However, backlogging of applications is the least of the problems and obstacles facing many Hispanic immigrants in regard to gaining citizenship.
Many immigrants find it incredibly hard to even get past the initial barriers blocking them from gaining citizenship, let alone getting their application processed in time for an election. There are many factors that block or attempt to block new immigrants from gaining citizenship status. First off, given the historical trends of abuse to the Hispanic population by the U.S. government regardless of one's citizenship status, the Hispanic population traditionally distrusts the government as a result. The Hispanic population has more than enough reason to distrust the American government. For example, as described in John Farley's textbook "Majority-Minority Relations," Hispanics are frequently subject to racial profiling by the police, and in some cases jailed or deported for no reason other than not carrying a passport with them at all times to prove their citizenship. (Farley, 2005) This distrust is one of the first things that the government needs to address in reforming immigration laws and remedying the relationship between American and its largest minority group. The U.S. government needs to act in a more affirmative and progressive manner so as to relieve the concerns or questions regarding their trustworthiness in the eyes of the Hispanic population.
Another major factor preventing many immigrants from obtaining citizenship, and thereby also preventing a large percentage of the Hispanic population from voting, is the fact that the naturalization process is cost prohibitive to low-income families. In most cases one not only needs an expensive attorney and has to pay court fees, but there is also a general fee just for going through the process on top of all the other expenses. In fact, that fee keeps getting raised. As reported in Julia Preston's article "Hispanics Seek Citizenship in Time for Voting," "A fee increase, raising naturalization costs 80 percent to $595, went into effect on July 30, 2007 (Preston, 2008)." Thus, making it that much harder for a low-income migrant worker, for instance, to even think about going through the necessary steps to become an American citizen.
In the end, this is a perpetuating cycle that the government seems to feel no need to stop. They create these obstacles for the Hispanic population in the way that the citizenship process is set up, as well as how the voting process is regulated. These barriers, along with the financial and language barriers of many low-income Hispanic families regardless of citizenship make it very difficult to partake in the voting process. By keeping these barriers in place, the government is maintaining the status quo, because without citizenship, one has no representation and no voting rights, and in most cases does not have access to proper education. Yet the government is doing nothing about this problem, all to keep a cheap working class population that no one has to take care of. Plus, as described in Garcia's article "Hispanic-Americans: An Under-Represented Group in American Politics," there is the fact that even Hispanic American citizens who may have been in the United States for generations, still face a lot of the same racial discrimination that non-citizens do every day. They have to put up with stereotypes perpetuated by the media and are blamed for many of the nation's problems (Garcia, "Hispanic-Americans"). This makes it incredibly hard for a well meaning, law abiding Hispanic citizen to find a decent job to support their family, which lends itself to the financial barriers that can also prevent them from access to proper resources that would allow them to register to vote or learn about the process in the first place. This then lends itself to the never-ending cycle that perpetuates the nation's stereotypes of the Hispanic/Latino population, which also adds to the de facto racial discrimination that the Hispanic/Latino population faces in regard to the American voting system.
CONCLUSION
While the average American might not be aware of the difficulties and obstacles the Hispanic population face when dealing with our voting system, that doesn't mean that the racial discrimination these people claim to face day to day is not real. There is a great amount of evidence that such discrimination still exists even in the 21st century and can be found just by looking at our voting system. The Hispanic/Latino population is obviously being cheated out of their right to vote due to de facto discrimination that takes a variety of forms, ranging from the refusal to reform the immigration laws that target non-citizen Hispanics in particular which keeps them from participating in an election, or to something as simple as the cost-prohibitive nature of the naturalization process, which can affect not only the new immigrant population but Hispanic/Latino American citizens as well. There is no quick fix to this situation of racial discrimination, but the government can at least start out by understanding that there is a strong correlation between how illegal immigrants are viewed and treated and how Hispanic-American citizens are viewed and treated. The government also needs to have carefully worded and well-written laws that do not allow for loopholes that can be easily abused. And once those laws are in place, the government needs to make sure that those laws are enforced, because there is no point in having a well-written law if it is not enforced. While writing new laws and keeping them enforced is not a miracle cure for racial discrimination in America, especially within our voting system, it is at least a step in the right direction towards the goal of greater equality for all people within the United States of America.
