Sean Ohmen
Belknap
English 105
April 29th, 2009
Video Games: A Growing Problem
Video games are growing rapidly as a market and at a record pace as a technology. The realism that comes with the more advanced graphics is awe inspiring. But as games progress, the effect they have on kids is growing, or at least becoming more apparent. Very few kids do not play video games, and more and more research is showing that video games may be having a larger effect on the people playing them than previously thought. Also, it is becoming more and more evident that the burden of controlling this is going to have to fall heavily on the shoulders of the parents, as government regulation would be unethical and largely unsuccessful. As video games become more and more violent, they have a larger and larger impact on the kids who play them, and the majority of the responsibility falls on the parents to control them.
Video games are not just a topic to notice, they need to be watched. Violent ones are becoming more and more realistic, becoming more shocking to see. In the XBox 360 game, Gears of War 2, the hero wields an assault rifle with a chainsaw bayonet in a post-apocalyptic battle for Earth. When using this special weapon, the camera swivels around to give a more spectacular view of the player cutting the opponent in half, and pieces of blood and gore hit the screen temporarily causing blind spots. In Grand Theft Auto IV, the newest installment of a series of video games known for obscenity, your character can also take down an opponent with a chainsaw, but the Molotov Cocktails (a homemade incendiary bomb) are for more interesting. They send innocent civilians running and screaming on fire until they finally collapse to the ground half a block away. The examples really do continue, and it is not hard to see that this has been a good year for violence in video games, part of an exponential trend that has been building speed for two decades.
Research from the past decades has shown quite conclusively that violence in the media leads to more aggression in adults (Anderson). This stems from two aspects of media violence. Firstly, psychologists argue that such heavy exposure to violence is desensitizing people to violence in general (Violent Video Games). When hours of entertainment everyday are full of violence, we lose the intuitive negativity to such actions. Humans are naturally uncomfortable with violence, causing us to find more peaceful solutions to possible violent situations. This, however, deteriorates fast as we live through characters who experience such situations where the peaceful solutions are not applicable. Secondly, living vicariously through the heros in the media affects our interpretation of the world. "Individuals who [heavily] consume media violence tend to see the world in a more hostile fashion and tend to respond accordingly" (Anderson). People see worst-case scenarios commonly in the media, and then expect to encounter such situations in real life. This is startling, because it presents a situation in which a person's very view on life is altered negatively by violence in the media. It is a well documented and generally agreed upon fact that violence in the media does actually incite aggression in real-life scenarios.
But video games are a relatively new source of entertainment, and recent research is quite startling. "If [children] see that [an] aggressive act reaped a reward, or produced a desired result, they will in turn re-enact them almost immediately" (Anderson). The recent concern behind violent video games comes from the key difference between video games and other media sources: decision making. In games such as Grand Theft Auto, players tend to gain from more aggressive solutions to problems. When confronted with a problem in real life, the person may be far more likely to respond violently or aggressively. Even if in a particular in-game situation the violent choice is not the most desirable, there are no real-world consequences, and the player often has the option to revert to a saved game. This situation often makes an aggressive reaction to a real-world problem the first option. The families of three dead police officers in Alabama are suing the makers of the Grand Theft Auto series, claiming that the games "trained" a young boy to make the decision he did (Leung). The boy was arrested for questioning, but once in the station he leapt at the closest officer, stole his gun, and killed three people in the station including a 911 dispatcher. Then he stole a police cruiser and drove off. The families claim he imitated an exact scene from one of the games, which I can vouch for, as I remember playing the very same scene. "The video game industry gave him a cranial menu that popped up in the blink of an eye, in that police station... And that menu offered him the split-second decision to kill the officers, shoot them in the head, [and] flee in a police car, just as the game itself trained thim to do" (Leung). Reportedly, the boy made several comments regarding video games to police officers after being arrested, such as "Life is like a video game. Everybody's got to die sometime" (Leung). Video games are training children to react, and often to react violently, before they think about a situation.
With all this research into video games scaring everyone, some people are screaming for government intervention. They claim that the damage done to individuals is causing a deterioration of our culture and endangering us as a society. They declare that only government regulation can save us from this certain doom. But the government has no place here. They do not regulate watching football because it has a tendency to breed violent adults, and they cannot regulate video games. Most would argue that this is protected by our first amendment rights. The government has no effective way to regulate the playing of these games by minors, so the only strategy would be to make them illegal to everyone. This industry would not be as booming as it is if the general adult population was open to these games being banned to everyone. The only somewhat plausible solution is to tell parents to be parents. They should know what their kids are playing, how much, and be able to control it. A parent should be able to notice when their kid's psyche is changing for the worse because of heavy video game violence. We expect them to regulate the movies we watch, the places we go, and the people we hang out with, they can watch over their kid's video game habits as well.
The video game industry is innovative in it's legitimate efforts to regulate itself. It created it's own rating system in hopes that parents can more easily understand what can be found in a given game. Games rated M for Mature cannot be sold to minors. Games can be given the "M" rating for various reasons including sexual content, drug related content, language and different levels of violence. Games have 6 possible designations including "Early Childhood" and "Adults Only". There are six different labels for violence in video games, ranging from "Cartoon Violence" to "Intense Violence" and even "Sexual Violence" (ESRB). With 30 very obvious labels added to applicable game boxes, it is most definitely a fair proposal that parents know what their kids are playing.
Figure 1
The above picture (Figure 1) is of the box for Gears of War 2. In the bottom right corner you can clearly see the content warning "M" for Mature players only, seventeen years of age or older. Also evident in this picture is the extremely real appearance of the game. Part of the chainsaw on the rifles can be also be seen. Figure 2 is a graph which shows a survey among kids who had been in low-hostility or high-hostility fights, examining their video game habits. It shows that students who played lots of violent games were far more likely to be involved in a high-hostility fight.
Figure 2
Parents need to be responsible and monitor their kids' video game habits, especially as the games get more and more realistic. It is the stunning realism of these games that makes them more of a threat as of late, as well as their new levels of complexity. Too much exposure to violent video games will increase automatic aggressiveness. We can't ask the government to take care of us, and this is a burden that parents must pick up and carry. The ESRB is already there to help with its rating system and content descriptors. A parent could find out anything they need to know about a game by checking the box or by conducting a simple internet search. We don't need government regulation, we need good parenting.
