Running head: HIP-HOP CULTURE
Hip-Hop Culture: The Need for a New Beat
Britt A. Mestdagh
Northern Arizona University
Hip-Hop Culture: The Need for a New Beat
Ever since its establishment in the late 1970s, hip-hop music has evolved into an entire sub-culture within the diverse American society. This genre of music has infiltrated and impacted countless of other groups and spread like a disease. Thus, there is an infinite amount of controversy surrounding the topic and both scholars and celebrities alike are involved in the dispute. Fanatics of hip-hop declare that the industry allows women a chance to speak their minds more freely and that women can use this commanding expression as a tool for empowerment. However, critics argue that hip-hop music has developed into a culture that exploits women sexually, called sexploitation, and that it is beginning to reverse the women's rights movement. Also, advocates of the genre state that it promotes and revives the freedom of speech for lower class Americans, but others claim that the amount of cussing and sexist remarks found in the majority of hip-hop songs is out of control. Yet, supporters still contend that hip-hop music has created a billion dollar industry where urban youths and low-income children can express themselves and have wealthy role models, which come from the same kind of neighborhoods they do. Critics insist that these "wealthy role models" simply inspire the youth of America to enter into the world of drugs, abuse alcohol, and that they glorify gang violence. Although hip-hop music is viewed to empower women and children's artistic form of expression and allow for urban youth to have aspirations, the genre has created a subculture that negatively affects children, teenagers, and women through the use of sexploitation, crude language, drug use, and violence.
Despite proponents arguing that hip-hop sets a foundation for female liberation and that it enables women to communicate their beliefs and goals, there is an infinite amount of lyrics and music videos that display sexist and misogynistic themes. For instance, in hip-hop artist Juvenile's hit song "Back Dat Azz Up," he raps that "Bitch titties sittin nice yeah, I wanna bite yeah, I could fuck you right yeah all night yeah, Wanna bring it to my house yeah on the couch yeah, Knock the pussy out yeah, get them out yeah, I wanna see these hoes yeah, bend it low yeah" (Katterjohn, 2007). Clearly this rapper is objectifying women and is discussing her as merely a piece of meat, not as a human being with actual feelings. This is certainly only one of the thousands of hip-hop songs that dehumanize women and exploit them sexually. In a recent study, researchers investigated gender separation in advertisements on three different radio stations. Results displayed that males were over-represented in radio advertisements and they were significantly more likely to be shown as authorities on products rather than as users. Also, they discovered that females were portrayed more often than males in dependent roles and males were most often in the neutral narrator capacity compared to females. However, these results intensified when the hip-hop radio station was observed (Monk-Turner, Kouts, Parris, & Webb, 2007). See Figure 1. Thus, not only can sexist material be identified in hip-hop song lyrics, but in advertisements involved in the culture as well. This genre of music has infected the entire hip-hop culture as a whole.
All of these crude and exploitive images condition young children that there is nothing wrong with disrespecting women and viewing them as merely sex objects. Studies have repeatedly shown that young children are heavily influenced by their surroundings or the way that older people act. Since popular culture and the music industry encircles typical daily life, the images portrayed are practically forced upon an adolescent and it can impair their development. Sociologist Diana Stephens performed a qualitative study on the images portrayed in hip-hop culture and identified eight portraits that women are constantly depicted as: the Diva, Gold Digger, Freak, Dyke, Gangster Bitch, Sister Savior, Earth Mother, and Baby Mama. With the help of hip-hop music, these eight sexual images have drastically affected interpersonal relationships and sexual development among young black women. Examined more closely, all eight of these characterizations have misogynistic and sexist connotations. According to Stephens, a Diva is a woman who is "often rude and belittles people, believes that everyone is beneath her, and thinks that she is so much more loved than what she really is." Plus, the term Gold Digger deprecates a woman's power to be successful both financially and socially because it is "a girl that is only with a man because she wants his money. She'll spend it on jewelery, clothes, vacations, etc. Once he goes broke she'll go for another man that is rich or just plain financially stable." One of Grammy Award Winning artist Kanye West's most famous songs is titled "Gold Digger" and labels all women as money seeking vampires that need a man to support them. When young girls hear these lyrics and have these images embedded in their naive minds, they will automatically believe that it is expected of them to not be successful financially, when they can simply rely on a man for every one of their needs.
A teenager's mind is psychologically vulnerable to whatever they experience or witness during their teenage years. Their mind is incredibility susceptible to external stimuli, which in turn, effects their psychological development and psyche. Thus, when a teenager repeatedly hears and witnesses the images of the phrase Baby Mama they are affected more than what meets the eye. Baby Mama is a sexist phrase that is a product of hip-hop music and Stephens defines it as "a woman who a man has a one-night stand with and that has his child. She may think she has some sort of position or leverage in the man's life, just because she had a child with the man, but all she is, is a baby mama, nothing else. They use the child as a pawn to get money from the man" (2007). Since this term is used vigorously by male and female hip-hop artists, it sends the message that if a woman or young girl gets pregnant, she should not even fathom relying on the man she had sex with because he will not support her. It excuses the male's responsibility and that if she were to get pregnant, do not expect any aide, socially nor financially. When a person loses hope, especially if they are not financially stable, this can significantly diminish someone's psyche and their ability to envision themselves as being successful. Clearly, hip-hop music is not inspiring and is merely degrading and demeaning to countless numbers of groups.
Many believe that it is only the male rappers that are corrupting equal rights between the two sexes, but female rappers similarly send out the same messages. In 2009, Matthew Oware extensively analyzed 44 songs by female rappers, taken from the Billboard charts between 1992 and 2000. His results showed that the majority of the songs had women who self-objectified, self-exploited, and used derogatory lyrics when referring to other women and themselves. The author found that these messages contradict the empowering messages that are conveyed and that they only reproduce and uphold male dominated notions of femininity. This article not only solidifies how negative hip-hip is for women, but also how it is brainwashing women and only slowing the pace of equality between the sexes. When women are constantly hearing and being exposed to demeaning language aimed at them, the shock value is lost over time and they are being conditioned to repeat the cycle.
Although hip-hop superstars have primarily grown up in poverty-stricken communities, they have masterfully utilized the hip-hop industry to become wealthy. Adherents to the genre contend that since these individuals have come from extremely modest backgrounds and have become wealthy, that they are automatically great role models for adolescents that hail from the same environments. However, their respectability is nullified because of the ludicrous and excessive amount of violence that is portrayed in hip-hop songs. One of the legends of hip-hop is the rap group N.W.A. who grew up in economical and social strife in Comptom, California. Along with a myriad of other rappers, they praise violence and gang membership. In their most famous song titled "Straight Outta Comptom," group member Ice Cube raps "Squeeze the trigger, and bodies are hauled off You too, boy, if ya fuck with me, The police are gonna hafta come and get me, Off yo ass, that's how I'm goin out. Goin off on a motherfucker like that with a gat that's pointed at yo ass AK-47 is the tool" (Ruble & Turner, 2000). In this one quote, if someone "messes with" Ice Cube then he will murder them and he is promoting resorting to violence to solve any problem. Plus, he makes a direct firearm reference to not just a pistol, but a hefty assault rifle that is sure to kill. No child or teenager should idolize a person that will use an assault rifle to kill someone just because they did not like the way someone looked at them. He discusses killing or shooting someone like it is part of every day life and that it is fine to use a gun by all means. Also, the majority of hip-hop songs do not advocate peace, instead they use intimidation techniques to sell millions of dollars worth of CDs.
The aggressive behavior does not simply stay in the songs or videos, it matriculates into the rappers' real lives. Most Hollywood celebrities attempt to be positive role models and try to present themselves respectfully in front of the cameras. Usually celebrities act differently in the public sphere than they do in the private sphere, meaning they will represent a certain persona to the fans. However, the majority of rapper's are all-around bad role models, no matter which sphere they are in. For instance, hip-hop artists are often involved in feuds with each other, like the most recent "dissing feud" between artists 50 Cent and Rick Ross. Even though rappers are in the same industry, they do not show respect to each other, which influences hip-hop fans to not show respect to each other either. Several rappers have also been involved in suspicious murders where they lost their lives because of feuds involving the hip-hop industry. A prominent example of this is when hip-hop legend Tupac Shakur was unexpectedly shot, yet there were speculations that fellow hip-hop phenomenon Notorious B.I.G. paid gang members to murder him because of a "dissing feud" between the two (Collins, 2007). The violence against women is another huge epidemic plaguing male rappers' lyrics. An example is Eminem's "97 Bonnie and Clyde" song where he is narrating the murder of his wife while bringing his toddler daughter along for the journey. Exposing his daughter to that kind of a crime, especially the murder of her own mother, is both disgusting and unsuitable for any youth to hear. Adolescent fans become accustomed to this violent behavior and sub-consciously, or consciously, imitate these actions because their role models act like it is no big deal.
Advocates of hip-hop culture continually defend artists' perseverance of utilizing their right to free speech and inspiring youth to express themselves. Even though it is their right as an American to freely express themselves, it is not worth the expense of the youths' innocence. The language in the "majority of hip-hop songs is crude and vulgar" (Baszile, 2009). Every sentence seems to contain at least one cuss word or some alcohol or drug reference. In hip-hop songs, artists recommend the use of drugs and alcohol and glorify the activity of selling drugs. For instance, Gucci Mane describes how he sells and uses cocaine in his song "Bricks": "So icy c.e.o, I'm a fool with the snow, They think I'm puttin' v.v.s jewels in the coke." Not only is he addressing the sale of illegal drugs, but he is promoting the amount of money a person can make if they sell one of the most addicting narcotics. Gucci Mane himself grew up in a poor neighborhood and resorted to selling drugs when he was as young as 12 years old. If a child is also growing up in a financially unstable environment and they witness the millions of dollars Gucci Mane is making, they will most likely not hesitate to follow in his foot steps as a drug dealer. Another drug that is prevalent in hip-hop songs is marijuana, which is considered to be the "gateway drug" because it is the drug that a person tries first, then eventually proceeds to experiment with other narcotics. In Nelly's "Wrap Sumdem" he and three other rappers articulate their love for marijuana and how they smoke it in excessive amounts because they rap, "Weed is actually a medicine for me, you know. Every 4 hours like a prescription I smoke" (Wright, 2009). The drug usage promoted in hip-hop songs does not just stop with narcotics, several rappers have begun to encourage the euphoric feelings of prescription drugs. Rap artist Lil' Wyte's "Oxycontin" is an upbeat song about various kinds of pills and the chorus goes, "Oxycontin, Xanax bars, Percocets, and Lortabs, Valiums, Morhpine Patches, Ecstasy, and it's all up for grab" (Ruble & Turner, 2000). In the rest of the song, he tells his audience how exciting it is to digest 4 different pills all at the same time. Since children and teenagers have easily persuadable and gullible minds, they hear these types of lyrics and unconsciously believe that this type of drug usage is a quality lifestyle. The hip-hop artists do not inform their audiences about the addictive nature of narcotics or about the dangers of a drug deal. If adolescents only hear about the positives of drugs, if there are any, then they are more likely to use because their young minds are being manipulated and brainwashed.
Although hip-hop music was created almost forty years ago, the genre has generated a culture that affects several other sub-cultures within the United States. With this new culture has come debates about the artists actions and the lifestyles they promote. Adherents of the genre believe that hip-hop empowers women's self expression and individualization. Critics contend that the industry simply exploits women sexually and is socially and economically demeaning towards women. Plus, supporters argue that much of the hip-hop artists have become wealthy despite hardship and that the the youth of America can look up to them as positive role models. Critics maintain that the artists only promote and glorify drug usage, alcohol abuse, and violence. Another issue is that proponents believe that hip-hop gives a voice to lower class Americans, yet critics regard the use of sexist language and crude language as an abuse of freedom of speech. Even though the hip-hop culture of America is believed to inspire lower class youth and liberate women's freedom of expression, the music has created negative repercussions for women, teenagers, and children because of the prevalent themes of sexploitation, crude language, drug use, and violence.
