Ashley Brown
April 25, 2009
English 105
WP#5
Save the Peaks
Imagine that you are skiing down the slopes of Northern Arizona's only ski resort, Snowbowl, at full speed. Then suddenly a skier cuts in front of you and you go flying face forward into a huge pile of snow. It is one thing if the snow that you are flying into is actual real snow, but what if it's snow that has been made from reclaimed water. Would it make a difference? What if you were a Native American, who considers the mountain that the ski resort is located on as sacred and that the usage of reclaimed water to make snow is disrespectful? Currently in Northern Arizona, there is an ongoing issue involving using reclaimed water to make snow on the San Francisco Peaks, as well as expanding the Snowbowl resort, between the local Native Americans and owners of Snowbowl. My main argument is that the utilization of using reclaimed water in the production of snow as well as expanding Snowbowl is deteriorating the cultural beliefs and environmental issues in the Northern Arizona region. The expansion of Snowbowl is a desecration of a sacred land site; it will increase the threat to already endanger animals and cause environmental destruction. I will argue from a Traditional point of view as well as from an Environmental point of view.
The San Francisco Peaks, or "The Peaks", is located in Northern Arizona just outside of Flagstaff, Arizona and is the home of the only true alpine zone in Arizona. In 1908, the San Francisco Peaks became part of the Coconino National Forest and is considered sacred to no fewer than 13 Native American Tribes in the Four Corners Region of the United States. Among those tribes are the Navajo, Hopi, Havasupai, Hualapai, Yavapai, Zuni, Southern Paiute, Acoma and five other Apache Tribes. The Peaks are sacred to hundreds of thousands of Native Americans and plays a central role in the religious practices of many of those tribes.
The Peaks are currently in the middle of a legal battle between local Native American Tribe, the owners of Snowbowl and the U.S. Forest Service. The legal battle began in 1980 when the U.S. Forest Supervisor approved to have a road paved that lead into the Peaks. The Navajo and Hopi Tribes filed separate lawsuits arguing that the religious rights of the tribes were in jeopardy. A couple of years later, the two cases were combined to into the Wilson v. Block and taken to the District of Columbia Circuit Court, but the tribes were unable to convince the courts that their religion was being infringed on and the suit was denied. The current situation involving reclaimed water and making snow, a new lawsuit had been filed against the government by all 13 tribes. They are suing on the ground of the Religious Liberty Protection Act (RLPA), which in intended to protect the freedom of religious exercises as it pertains to land use. The case was taken to trail where it was approved to go forth with the construction but went back to trail when the tribes appealed it. In March of 2007, the case was take the 9th District Court in San Francisco, where a panel issued that the unanimous decision to reverse the previous ruling of the approval to make snow from reclaimed water and said that it violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act and does not comply with the National Environment Policy Act.
The Peaks play a significant role in every aspect of Native American life. The Navajos, who call the Peaks Dook'o'osl""d- Abalone Shell Mountain, consider it as one of the sacred mountains that border the Navajo Nation. They believe that it marks the Western most boundary of the Reservation. Navajo legends tell that their Creator placed them on the land between the four mountains representing the four directions. The sacred mountain of the East is Mount Blanca or Tsisnaasjini' - Dawn or White Shell Mountain. It is located near Alamosa in the San Luis Valley, Colorado. The sacred mountain of the South is Mount Taylor or Tsoozil- Blue Bead or Turquoise Mountain. It is located north of Laguna, New Mexico. The sacred mountain of the North is Mount Hesperus or Dibe Nitsaa (Big Mountain Sheep) - Obsidian Mountain. It is located in the La Plata Mountains in Colorado. These four Mountains represent the major parts of the Traditional Navajo religious beliefs, helping them to live in harmony with both nature and the Creator.
The Peaks are associated with the color yellow and it is gendered Female. It has the power to heal the mind, body and soul. According to Navajo Stories it is the home of Talking God, White Corn Boy and Yellow Corn Girl. The Navajos also believe that the San Francisco Peaks is the home of Changing Woman and she can be seen in the mountains from the Reservation. In the Navajo Culture, Changing Woman is the closest personification to the earth and the order of the universe. She represents the cyclical path of the seasons (Ninahaghah"g"") - birth (spring -daan daago), maturing (summer Shi' shiigo), growing old (fall- 'ak'eed) and dying (winter- Haigo), only to be reborn again during the spring.
Traditional Navajos often look to the peaks for advice and practice Traditional Navajo rituals according to the peaks. For example, Navajo have Yei Bi Cheii dances when the "belt" of trees on the bottom of the peaks starts to change colors. They say that if you have one before the trees change colors then you and your family will encounter bad luck. Navajo Medicine men often go to mountain to collect different herbs and plants that they will need to conduct a ceremony or bless someone.
The Hopi's believe that the peaks are the mythological home of the Kachina People and are looked upon with awe and reverence. The Hopis call the San Francisco Peak, Nuva'tuk-iya-ovi or "Place of the High Snows" or "Place of Snow on the Very Top", are the abode of the Kachina People-spirits who come down during the growing season to visit the Hopi Villages and bless them with overflowing harvests, rain and good health. They believe that the ancestral kachinas live in the mountain for half of the year among the clouds around the summit and when they are properly honored through various ceremonies and songs, the kachinas will bring rain to the villages and their crops.
The Havasupai Indians also consider the peaks as sacred. They live in one of the most beautiful inaccessible villages- you can either hike or ride a mule or horse down the 10 mile trail or ride a helicopter to the village. They call San Francisco Peak, Hvehasahpatch (Big Rock Mountain) and consider the Peaks to be the center of the world and their link to the universe. They pray to the gods who still inhabit the mountain and conduct dances and ceremonies to honor them. The Havasupai and Hopis are distant cousin and believe in the same beliefs about the mountains. At one point in time the northwestern slopes of the Peaks were former Havasupai habitat, but they are no longer and are now considered as a wilderness area that is forever free form commercial use.
My first argument is that if the expansion of Snowbowl is approved, it would allow the descerastion of a sacred site to happen. From all the previous information I have presented about the Native American views of the mountain, you are able to see just how much of a central role this mountain plays in the history and practices of the tribes. Many of them pray daily to the Holy People or Kachinas who live among the mountain, or plan to have ceremonies according to surrounding of the mountain. If using reclaimed water to make snow is approved, then many Native Americans will be offended, because of the fact that they believe that their creators live in the mountain and the creators will become upset and not bless the tribes will good crops, health, etc. If Snowbowl is expanded it would require that over 170 acres of trees to be cut down to build an underground pipeline to transport over 180 million gallons of wastewater annually from the aquifer- that is 1. 5 million gallons a day, which is about 300,00 flushes from your toilet. Currently on Snowbowl, the only way to collect water is to wait for the natural snow to melt. Once it melts, it then goes into an aquifer within the mountain and then is pumped to provide water for Flagstaff and the surrounding areas. The tribes fear they the wastewater, which will be used to make snow, will pollute the mountains pure water. They believe that by transporting sewage water through the mountain to mix it with pure water is a desecration of the sacred site. They are also concerned about the chemicals that may show up in the drinking water of the Flagstaff community and the health affects.
My second argument is that if the expansion is passed Snowbowl will increase the threat to already endangered species on the San Francisco Mountains. Snowbowl plans on adding an additional 66 acres of trails as well as upgrading ski runs, and expanding their main buildings. This would require that over 75 acres of forest surrounding be cut and over 48 acres to be thinned out to increase the resort by 47%. By cutting and thinning out the trees in the area, there will be an increase of soil erosion and it will also damage the habit of many of the animals and plants that live in the area, including the endangered Mexican Spotted Owl and the San Francisco Peaks groundsel.
The San Francisco Peaks groundsel is a part of the Asteraceae (Sunflower Family) and it
is only found on the talus slopes in the alpine zone of the Peaks. It is a dwarf perennial alpine plant that grows low to the ground and only grows 3 to 10 cm and has yellow ray flowers. Currently, there are only about 5000 plants that grow on less than 2. 6 square kilometers of the Peaks. There is currently a recovery plan set in place for the plant to help them increase. Right now the only major threat that the plant faces are being trampled on by people who go off- trail hiking. The second threat is from natural disturbances (which rarely occur on the peaks) such as avalanches etc.
The Mexican Spotted Owl lives in areas composed of high altitude conifer and alpine forest. They are an ashy-chestnut brown color with white and brown spots on it abdomen, back and neck and are relatives of the California and Northern Spotted owls. The Owls are 16 to 19 inches tall and 17 inches long. Their usual lifespan is 16 to 17 years in the wild. Currently in the United States, there are approximately 2,100 Mexican Spotted Owls left and even fewer in Mexico. Their current threat is the loss of habitat, starvation and fires. They are often attacked by other owls because of their size and have low reproductive numbers as well as juvenile survival rates.
My third argument is that with the expansion of Snowbowl, it will further increase the amount of environmental destruction to the peaks. The San Francisco Peaks, which is located in the Coconino National Forest, has always had its source of land conflicts. Back in the 1800s, the Peaks were logged and grazed to a great extent. As the beauty of the mountain began to attract visitors, in 1930 the U.S. Forest Service allowed the construction of Snowbowl to go forward, but in 1969 when a proposition to expansion the ski lodge came forward it was meet with opposition from local tribes. In 1979, the forest service approved to build a new lodge, a paved road, additional parking, four new lifts and over 50 acres of new trails. In the 1980's with the new fashion style of wearing "stoned washed" denim jeans became popular, so did the mining on the Peaks. The White Vulcan Pumice Mine opened to supply pumice, which is used to create a "stone-wash" denim effect and in cement and agriculture. The mine remained open until August 28, 2000 when the federal government broke an agreement with the company and decieded to close it. Mining for pumice is one of the most destructive processes; it involves completely removing the top soil and vegetation, it is extremely vigorous process and the land takes years to recover completely.
Another environmental issue that the Peaks face is the danger of wildfires and the effect that previous fires have had. The Peaks and the surrounding areas are still recovering from 1970 Mount. Elden fire as well as from fires that have occurred during within the past three years. The areas that were burnt are still covered with burnt black trees and bushes and in certain areas there are no trees at all. Even with the help of the Forest Service to help replant these trees it's going to take years for them to re-grow. The ground likes as though someone has covered the entire area with black paint; there is no sight of any green plants.
The last environmental issue that plagues the San Francisco Peaks is the infamous bark beetles. Dendroctunus or Bark beetles are the most destructive insects that can be found in a Confer and Alpine forests. Currently, they are the leading killer of Alpine trees on the Peaks. They are known to reproduce in the inner bark of living and non-living phloem tissues of trees. They are known to "drill" through pine bark and dig a gallery in the wood where it will lay its eggs. When the eggs hatch, the larva eats the cambium layer (which provided nutrients to the tree) of the trunk and inject a fungus into the tree to stop the production of sap. Would good is a forest if your cutting down trees to build a larger ski resort or losing your trees to the insects? WE need to protect these precious lands for the future of our planet. Trees are leading absorber of Carbon dioxide on our plant! If we began to cut more and more of them, when what will happened to the Carbon dioxide that is produced by tourist or skier going up to Snowbowl. Where will it go? What kind of damage are WE doing to our planet?
There are other people who think that we should allow the expansion of Snowbowl and using reclaimed water to make snow to go forward, because it would be beneficial to the Flagstaff community. It would mean more money and tourist, which would then result in a better economy in Flagstaff. Some may say that Snowbowl will help boost the local economy, but it will not. Here are a few interesting facts about Snowbowl: 1) Snowbowl does not drive the winter economy. 2) The owners of Snowbowl do no live in Flagstaff. 3) The Forest Service violated the NEPA act when approving the Snowbowl development. 4) Global warming will make Arizona less viable in the near future. 5) Additional water systems will be contaminated in the areas around Snowbowl if artificial snow is made. But in reality if the approval to make snow with reclaimed water is passed, it would serious strain the relationship between the Native American and Flagstaff community. Everyday hundreds of Native Americans commute to Flagstaff for school, work; to do personal errands, shop, go to appointments etc. The Flagstaff economy depends on the local Natives who come in to do business. What if the Native Americans started to by pass Flagstaff and choose to go else where to do their business because the expansion was passed? Everyone in Northern Arizona will be affected in one way or another.
In closing, there are many cons against the expansion of Snowbowl, most having to do with the local Native Americans tribes and the environment. I believe that these two factors play a very beneficial role in the preservation of the Peaks. They need to be kept in the natural way that they currently are and does not need a multimillion ski resort on it. We all must keep in mind all of the wildlife and ecosystem that surround the Peaks. They were probably here before us and require more tools to survive and thrive in this harsh world. At the top of this list are TREES! Trees are our basic survival tool on the planet and need to be preserved to ensure that future generations of people will be able to flourish on the planet. We can help out the planet by saying NO to the expansion of Snowbowl! Stand up for Mother Earth and let her be heard.
