Tavares 9
Public Schools Trump Homeschooling
Noel Tavares
English 105, Section 3
Jacki Belknap
April 29, 2009
With all the debates in the world, education is one of the biggest arguments because it affects our future leaders. With the choice to be home schooled or attend public schools, children have many choices that will either benefit them in a positive or negative way. "Critics of homeschooling attack it on many fronts, arguing that children are not taught by qualified professionals, homes often do not possess the resources of schools, homeschooled children tend to be isolated from their peers and systematic evaluation of childrens learning rarely occurs in the home (Simmons 1994)". Homeschooling is no way to be taught properly, when there are professional educators, and learning in the company of peers the same age.
Being that it is recession; a huge disadvantage of homeschooling is the cost. Some parents believe that homeschooling is cheaper because they do not need to drive their children to school every morning, constently buy their children the latest fashionable outfits, and deal with the fundraisers and extracurricular activities. Even without the stress of having a child in public schools, parents that choose to home school their children end up spending a large sum of money anyway. Homeschooling parents need to purchase textbooks, lesson plans, and other curriculum supplies. With the large expense needed to home school a child, parents need to consider the household income; most homes contain two incomes, so parents would need to figure out if they could survive off one income. One parent will work while the other will stay at home and act as a tutor, which will become a fulltime job for that parent. The average cost for home schooling is approximately four hundred dollars per child each year. This figure includes the cost for field trips, computer software, and project materials. This cost is crucial for the families in which one parent has given up their full-time job to homeschool. For the families who have previously relied on two incomes, this becomes a very serious disadvantage (Disadvantages). As for public schools, all students are given free resources, including free textbooks, computer labs, personal tutoring, access to books in the school library, and activity equipment. Parents who decide on homeschooling needs to consider all of these options considering that public schools provide more resources free of cost.
Many parents do not realize how demanding and stressful home schooling can be, if they do not have the necessary information, they can become easily overwhelmed. Homeschooling takes up a lot of time and leaves little time for parents to take breaks (Pros). Moreover, not every parent-child relationship is capable of handling the demands needed to work well for teaching. It is highly difficult for parents to admit that their child may learn better from someone else rather than from themselves. However, it may be true that sometimes the distance that school provides can be a good thing for the child and parent (Elizabeth). Traditional schooling gives parents a minimum of eight hours, five days a week, where there are no children in the home. Giving the parent time to work, get arrens done, relax, cook dinner in peace, and have adult conversations that they do not want their children pressent for. Homeschooling parents do not have the luxury of having time for themselves while the childern are at school (Disadvantages). The most significent disadvantage for parents is the amount of sacrifice it takes, physically, emotionally, and financially. With the time needed to prepare and teach lessons, organize activities and field trips, as well as schedule opportunities for the child to nurture their friendships and develop their interests outside of their home schooled environment (Disadvantages); this does not give parents much time to rest. With numerous educated teachers in different fields of study and sports options, a child will be able to explore the different subjects and learn which one interests them most in public schools.
Most parents are only educated to a certain level, and therefore are not educated enough to home school their own children. How does a parent expect to teach their child if they are not qualified professionals? With the constant changing in education standards and requirements, a parent can only keep up so much. In public schools, teachers are all highly educated in their field, and are constantly attending meetings and conventions to keep up with the latest education standards, and learning techniques. They are professionals who are trained to work with all types of children, including children with special needs or those lacking in certain subjects.
Public schools offer many specific programs for students with learning difficulties or other special needs, including physical and emotionally challenged (Needlman). Public schools provide professionals who are properly trained to understand the difficulties of children psychology, and children with special needs. Most parents are not informed enough to know how to handle or treat special needs children when it comes to education. Having professionals teach these children, will make life easier for both the parents and child. In the long run, it will benefit the child, so that they can properly be taught to their specific learning abilities. Children with special needs would benefit best from specialized teachers. The support of a reading clinician or a speech-language pathologist, or a school that is obligated to provide these services may be the best situation for these children (Elizabeth). Trying to home school special needs children may become very costly and in the long run damage the child's full potential.
Public schools also provide many different programs that will benefit all children. There are a variety of academically advanced programs for students who tend to be above their classmates or who are fast learners and talented in specific subjects or curricular activities. For the children who may need help prograns there are various therapies, including speech therapy, occupational therapy, and physical therapy; to help children with any type of therapeutic needs. There are also on-site after-school cares or enrichment opportunities, such as team sports, music or art lessons, hobby clubs, etc. that children enjoy, while learning and giving the parent more time if they are at work. These programs are provided by professionals, who are trusting and very good at what they do, so parent knows that their children are receiving the highest quality of learning.
Beginning at a young age, children have many dreams and goals for their future. From being a princess, a bride, a super hero, or a pro athlete; childrens minds wander daily. As a child is reaching the age to start school, 5 or 6 years old, they tend to dream about going to school; playing with other kids their age, riding the school bus, eating in the cafeteria , and having their own desk and chair in a classroom. When a parent considers home schooling, they could be crushing their child's dreams. Parent's interest may also be different from that of their child's. A child may have a strength or interest in a particular subject or activity that the parent does not enjoy as much, so the parent would not spend as much time on this particular activity. At a public school, there is a variety of opportunity for a student to explore different activities and subjects through clubs and extracurricular activities; therefore, a student would receive the attention and gain experience in their particular interest.
Mark Mickelsen, director of communications for the Utah Education Association, said that because of the lack of socialization with other students in their own age group, often these home-schooled students when returned to public schools, cannot handle the social demands placed upon them (Coffman). When a homeshooled child transfers to a public school, they are unable to follow rules or be patient during class time. This is mainly because at home, they can stop doing their work at their own will, and can pratically do what ever they want. The lack of self control will not benefit them in college or in the work force later on in life. However, this is not true of all students who are being introduced to public schools traditions, but it does affect the majority. At times, homeschooled children either feel like they are better than their peers or tend to have difficulty when working with others. They are not able to finish projects or homework on time, because most were taught that they can finish assignments on their own time, and at their own speed. Attending public schools helps childen to learn how to branch out and meet others and learn how to handle different personalities. Also, teaching them how to follow rules is important so that when they get older, they understand that it is important to follow the law and learn time mangement when having to pay bills or work on projects.
The number one argument regarding homeschooling and public schools is the lack or socialization skills when homeschooled. Homeschooling parents believe that "A few hours a week, along with free play time with siblings and neighbors, is enough of that kind of socialization for their children" (Rothschild). This may be true if they live in a neighborhood with lots of children or if they have a lot of sibling, however not everyone does. There are some families that live in areas with no children in the neighborhood, or they might not get along well with their siblings if they have any. What if they do not get along with their siblings? This could cause them to become angry or even antisocial. One big advantage of attending a local public school is the chance for a child to get to know many other children in their neighborhood or town, which make it easier for after-school socialization (Needlman). "The single biggest con to homeschooling, especially from a teenage view point is, they might not get to see friends very often" (Burkhart). Reduced social interaction and how to deal with people is something that is important, and can be somewhat lacking when it comes to home schoolers. "Fortunately, this drawback can be easily avoided with the help of homeschool co-op groups, which are basically associations of like-minded home school families" (Burkhart). These ways alone are not completely sufficient for teaching a child proper social skills. According to a California study by researcher, Dr. Brian Ray, 92% of superintendents believe that home learners are emotionally unstable, deprived of proper social development and too judgmental of the world around them (Haverluck). Parents and educators also believe that the group interaction in schools is key for a child's development. It's about working together in a partnership. Children in public schools for example, may have more opportunity to work in groups as leaders or as followers. These are key factors for a well balanced adult life (Homeschool). "Even with a top-rated education in the home, you can't add the social aspect" (Coffman). Many school socialization advocates argue that homeschooling precludes children from experiencing real life (Haverluck).
Homeschoolers believe that there is usually less stress because the children do not have to rush out of the house every morning (School). Also that homeschooling allows them to choose the time and place to study, as well as what lessons to accomplish and by what date. With these flexibilities, school in the home is quite convenient. However, it is not helping the child learn useful skills needed to succeed in their future. Attending public schools, students are assigned projects and homework that are due by a certain time and date and they must be in class for a set period of time. These rules are in place to teach children how important it is to manage their time. In the work force, one of the most important factors that can make it or break someone is their time management skills. They are expected to be on time and to get their work done in a timely fashion. As the saying goes, time is money and money is time. Being taught these skills and life lessons from a young age, as the child grows, these characteristics will eventually come naturally and be highly beneficial.
"A public school spends more than two hours a day in activities such as lunch, recess, and class changing. There is a lot of time wasted each day that a child could be learning something else" (School); as some may believe. However, others are highly against this and become quite aggressive. If eating, actively playing, and walking from class to class is time wasted, then how does one exercise, get to class, or contribute nutrition to one's body? This argument is very biesed no matter what side of the debate one is arguing for. It is very important for a child to have free time for socialization, exercise, and releasing the energy that has built up from sitting in class all day. It may not be noticeable, but children are learning every minute know matter where they are, even if it is outside playing with their peers or going to a supermarket with their parents.
Homeschooled children have a lot of free time to do nothing. They tend to sit around and watch television and play video games. They do not have a scheduled physical education class and tend to eat a lot. These habits mixed with lack of exercise, may contribute to a child's weight gain, causing them to become unhealthy or even worse obese. This is why it is manditory in public schools for children to actively play between classes and to have health and physical education classes. Children need to learn the impotance of eating healthy and living a balanced life by staying active and getting a lot of physical activity.
Homeschooled children constently have one-on-one interaction with their parents, many think that this will benefit the child because the parents can consentrate on the child's weakness. However, public schools help children personally develop as well by providing personal tutoring by professional educators, who know techniques that will help children learn better. Being taught by multiple teachers helps a child learn different learning techniques and allows them to discover which method they prefer. Having these teachers who care about the childrens future, and loving parents who also care about their childrens future, provides the children with many role models and strong influences.
Children become more independent and more responsible with their behavior (School) when attending public schools because they are able to make their own choices rather than having their parents decide for them. Being able to learn from their own mistakes is the best way to educate one self. Steve Martens who has no positive thoughts toward homeschooling sarcasticlly commented that "keeping their kids from evolution, sex education, or anything that might lead them to think for themselves rather than accept what their parents think" (Burkhart). In this quote, Martens is trying to make a point on how kids need to learn and think for themselves rather than accept what their parents train them to think. If children are never able to think for themselves they will have difficulty living in the real world, where personal decisions need to be made daily. It also affects the children's individuality on their behavior and thoughts which is one of the greatest aspects of people; their uniqueness and different opinions.
Since home schools do not, as a rule, provide the diversity of social contacts that public schools do, home schooled parents find themselves compelled to spend a good deal of time outside of school making sure that their child has socializing opportunities (Elizabeth). Doing this affects the parent's opportunity to socialize with their adult friends. Public schools, however, have more diverse students than any other type of school. Going to a school with people from different cultural, racial, and economic backgrounds can teach children many important lessons (Needlman). The greatest thing about America is the cultural diversity. When being homeschooled, the children tend to feel uncomfortable around other racial ethnicities, which may cause racism. Attending public schools, the children are respectful and understanding of the different cultures causing interracial relationships which is a beautiful thing.
Public schooling is the best choice for children and their parents for many reasons. Giving the parent personal time alone as the child is at school being educated by professionals benefits them both. With the future at hand, public schooling will unite our county as our future leaders are being educated correctly.
