Steve Woodward
Eng105
Erica Jones
4/28/09
Welcome a Change, or Welcome the End
The leading scientists of the past few decades have avidly warned of the dangers of global warming. The startling realization they have recently stumbled upon is that the effects of such a situation would be much more drastic than anticipated. Stubborn skeptics often try to remain neutral in such situations by dismissing science as uncertainty, however two things remain constantly and undeniably obvious, global climate change is a serious issue, and it is caused mainly by human emissions of Carbon Dioxide (CO2).
Global warming is widely attributed to the phenomenon known as "the greenhouse effect". The three key components of the greenhouse effect are the earth, the surrounding atmosphere, and the sun. The sun radiates rays of heat energy which hit the earth, resulting in warmth. The majority of the heat reaching earth's surface is not absorbed however. Instead, it is radiated back towards the sun where it ceases to exist once combined with the overwhelming depths of space. The process of heat absorption and containment is due in response to the atmosphere which surrounds the earth. Particles in the atmosphere known as "greenhouse gasses" are much less penetrable than particles of natural gasses which make up the remaining atmosphere. Therefore, the greenhouse gasses do not allow the rays of heat to be dismissed back into space after reflecting off the earth; such as natural gasses would. Instead, they reflect the rays back towards the earth once more resulting in further heating and an increase in the overall presence of available heat energy to be absorbed by the earth.
The vast majority of the earth's atmosphere is made up of the natural gasses Oxygen and Nitrogen, which account for 99.9% of the total atmosphere (NASA.gov). This means greenhouse gasses make up less than 1% of earth's atmosphere. Therefore, because only a miniscule amount of greenhouse gasses are needed to create such a major effect on the earth's interaction with the absorption and reflection of heat radiance from the sun, even a seemingly irrelevant fluctuation of the presence of these gasses would result in a drastic change in the absorption heating of the earth.
Of the greenhouse gasses present in the earth's atmosphere, Carbon Dioxide (CO2) is by far the most abundant and is steadily increasing each year. CO2 molecules in the air are taken in by photosynthetic organisms such as trees and phytoplankton. A photosynthetic organism is any organism which absorbs CO2 to produce food for itself. As these organisms take the necessary Carbon (C) out of the CO2, they are left with the byproduct of oxygen (O2), which they release back into the atmosphere. The Carbon which these organisms obtain from photosynthesis becomes part of their chemical composition; this explains why all organisms which inhabit the earth are given the title "carbon based life-forms". The carbon based life-forms found on land such as trees eventually die and their carbon becomes absorbed into the soil of the earth. The carbon in the earth undergoes a series of complex organic reactions in which it is then converted into coal. A virtually identical process is followed by phytoplankton in the ocean. As the phytoplankton die they sink to the ocean floor, the only difference is that the carbon from phytoplankton is converted into oil instead of coal. Oil and coal are both pure carbon. Humans then become part of the CO2 cycle as we harvest oil and coal and use it as energy for various reasons such as fuel for our automobiles. The oil and coal that is burned to create energy in cars results in the conversion of liquid or solid Carbon into Carbon in the form of a gas. When gaseous Carbon is released into the air it automatically bonds with the surrounding Oxygen (O2) to create Carbon Dioxide (CO2), completing the Carbon Dioxide cycle. At a glance this cycle seems to be a very simple and balanced equation which could continue to maintain itself indefinitely. However, the time scale ratio between the production of pure carbon and the conversion to its gaseous from by means of human emissions is astronomically asymmetrical. The processes necessary for the corpses of carbon based life-forms to be converted into oil or coal takes over 300,000,000 years, whereas its harvesting and conversion to a gaseous state in the form of CO2 takes only a few days. Because the pure carbon sources have been trapped in the earth for hundreds of millions of years, life adapted gradually to account for the relatively small amounts of CO2 in the atmosphere. Now that ancient carbon is being harvested and transformed into CO2 at a rapid rate, life on earth is forced to undergo significant adaptation in a very minor time frame.
Emissions of CO2 are measured in Gigatons (Gt) per year, whereas 1 Gigaton is equal to 1 Billion tons. All CO2 emissions can be distributed into three categories, Natural emissions of land based plants, organisms found in the ocean, and human sources. Annual emissions from natural sources such as plants and oceanic organisms contribute 210 Gt of CO2, whereas human emissions contribute 7 Gt. Many global warming skeptics have used these numbers in their criticisms, failing to realize a critical aspect of the equation. Because natural CO2 emitters such as trees and phytoplankton are capable of photosynthesis, they therefore must have their absorbance rates taken into account. Theses natural emitters annually absorb 213 Gt of CO2 through photosynthetic conversions, so they actually absorb 3 Gt more than they emit. Humans only emit 7 Gt, but since we are unable to undergo photosynthesis and absorb any C02, it becomes purely excess, making our net emissions greater than those of all natural forces combined. Since photosynthetic organisms in the ocean are capable of absorbing an extra 3 Gt than they emit, they are able to absorb 3 Gt of the 7Gt that humans emit annually, decreasing the direct human emissions which remain in the atmosphere to 4 Gt. The extra 3 Gt that are absorbed by oceanic organisms are not transferred into pure Carbon however. They instead remain as CO2 in the ocean. The extra oceanic absorbance of human emissions appears to many to be beneficial, however scientists disagree. Each year the extra 3 Gt of CO2 which is absorbed in the ocean continues to compound into what is now believed by NASA to be a total of 40,000 Gt. The danger associated with such a vast storage of CO2 is the fact that it is entirely unclear as to how much more can be stored before an overflow leading to detrimental repercussions, which NASA believes is becoming increasingly plausible as CO2 emissions increase as well.
The increase in the presence of CO2 in the atmosphere has led to an increase in temperature by 1 degree Celsius in the past 50 years. This may not appear to be an immediate threat, however even the smallest variable has the potential to increase exponentially in severity when occurring in a complex system such as the environment. This exponential growth is a result of what is known as "the feedback effect". The idea of a feedback effect is based on the theory that an event which is part of a chain of cause and effect that forms a circuit will inevitably cause the effect to effect the corresponding cause, causing each subsequent effect to become more drastic than the last. An example of a feedback effect is the deafening screech of a microphone placed near the amplifier it is plugged into. Every minor audible imperfection that is present in the range of the microphone will be sent through the amplifier and back into the microphone at an amplified volume. This process takes but a slight moment to compound an otherwise inaudible sound into a deafening screech. The feedback effect not only explains the phenomenon of compounding amplification however. The theory of feedback effects explains how something seemingly insignificant existing as an isolated variable such as minor audible imperfections in a microphone, or in the case of global warming; slight increase in temperature, soon becomes a substantial factor in creating an exponentially larger effect. It is an important aspect of the simplicity of destabilization due to minor imperfections in a complex system. The term "global warming" itself is misleading because it fails to address the imminent implications associated with minor change. A more appropriate term to help distinguish the actual problem would be "global climate destabilization". The environment can be thought of intricate machine in which every part is reliant on the other. Even the slightest imperfection in the machine has the potential to create a different effect on the part preceding it, causing the rest of the machine to once again feedback onto the slight imperfection leading to the collapse of the entire machine.
An example of a compounding variable that could easily lead to the disruption of an entire ecological machine is an increase in temperature on an important area of the North Atlantic Ocean known as the "ocean conveyor belt". The ocean conveyor belt is an immense oceanic current which is responsible for a vast majority of the containment of Carbon molecules in the ocean. As the current approaches England and northern Europe it beings to surge strongly downward, pulling billions of gallons of water to the ocean bed every second. As the water is pulled towards the bottom of the ocean it brings along with it many corpses of the oceanic carbon based life-forms which consist mainly of carbon. This explains how the ocean is able to maintain such a significant amount of CO2 and carbon based life-forms. The reason the water sinks is because of its salty composition which contrasts that of the waters near Northern Europe. However, a very minor increase in temperature could result in the melting of ice on land in Northern Europe, causing fresh water to flow into the ocean and dilute the salty composition of the conveyor system. If this system were to shut down, as many scientists fear may occur very soon, it would result in a feedback effect in which the carbon that would normally be sunk to the bottom of the ocean would instead remain on the surface where it could easily combine with the Oxygen in the air to create a significant increase in CO2 concentration. The increase in CO2 in the atmosphere would be far too detrimental to be reversed.
Many multinational corporations have denied all evidence suggesting the threat of global warming in order to protect their interests. The implications of climate change as a global threat would result in a severe decrease in the emissions of CO2, which are caused heavily by various multinational corporations around the world. The most avid in their attempts to disprove global warming is the multinational oil giant, Exxon Mobile, Responsible for handling more oil than most countries. If global warming is proven to be a serious threat to the environment, Exxon would face the possibility of bankruptcy because their massive investments of the pure carbon sources would be severely reduced. Exxon has avidly denied all evidence that points towards the realization of global warming , until February 13, 2007 during a World Energy conference in Houston, where Exxon's chairmen Rex Tillerson finally accepted the undeniable evidence, stating "there is no question that the world's climate is getting warmer; the question is what to do about it". If the largest contributor in the world to greenhouse emissions can accept the undeniable evidence supporting global warming as well as their role in it, it is absolutely implausible for modern skeptics to remain in a state of neutrality when the world is at stake
Even the Pentagon has accepted abrupt climate change as a legitimate threat to our modern way of life. In a very detailed, yet surprisingly uncensored document labeled "An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications on United State's National Security" states "Abrupt climate change may cause human carrying capacity to fall below usage of the eco-system, suggesting insufficient resources leading to a contraction of the population through war, disease, and famine". Another unsettling statement made in the document reads "As abrupt climate change lowers the world's carrying capacity, aggressive wars are likely to be fought over food, water and energy. Deaths from war as well as starvation and disease will decrease population size, which over time, will re-balance the earth's carrying capacity" (Pentagon 2003). This report is an intricately verbose prediction of what the leading scientists believe will happen if emissions of CO2 continue to rise at the rate in which they are now. The earth's "carrying capacity" is the ability in which the earth can sustain life. The report suggests a significant decrease in the amount of life that will be able to survive on earth with the increase of CO2 emissions leading to global climate change. Enough people will have to die to compensate for the drastic reduction of resources, therefore "rebalancing the earth's carrying capacity".
This scenario can and must be avoided at all costs. An increase in the presence of CO2 shows a relative increase in global temperatures. Therefore drastic reduction of human emissions must be carried out in order to maintain a stable temperature in which the earth can sustain life. Reduction of emissions by individuals may help slow the process of the phenomenon, but the only way for the crisis to be completely averted is for major policy changes to be made. Many groups such as Exxon and the Pentagon have accepted the threat of global climate destabilization, yet have not accepted any policy changes to account for such a crisis. The issue of global warming has recently become a topic of interest regarding politics in which the left and the right hold very different views of the situation and outcome. I cringe at the thought of a catastrophe such as that of global warming being dismissed as fiction on the basis of political standing. The reality is everyone must be advocates of change, or else we will all surely be victims of it.
