Tobacco Advertising 1
Tobacco Advertising
Justin Carpenter
English 105
Ms. Clark-Sanchez
April 26, 2009
Tobacco Advertising
In the world of advertising there is much debate about whether or not tobacco companies should be allowed to market their products. Here in the United States tobacco ads have been banned from television and radio; however, magazines are still fair game for big tobacco companies. For large tobacco companies such as Philip Morris USA and R.J. Reynolds, advertising has been a great tool for their success. Through the use of fictional characters like Camel Joe and the Marlboro Man, these companies have been able to appeal to younger generations and get them using their products. However, the apparent youthful advertisements from these companies have not gone unnoticed. In recent years, organizations such as "Truth", an anti-tobacco organization, have been promoting the disuse of all tobacco products. Anti-smoking and anti-chewing ads have become very popular, being shown in all forms of media such as television, radio, magazines and newspaper, in hopes to reach out to the youth and discourage the use of these products. It is important, though, for these advertisers to understand the youth and realize what appeals to them. There are three main methods that every anti-tobacco ad chooses to take which include: Fear appeals, social norms, and industry manipulation. During the course of this essay I will explain the impact that tobacco advertising has had on the country and how anti-tobacco advertising is making an effort to counter that. Also, I will discuss several organizations that are working to promote the anti-tobacco movement. The youth of this country are exposed to pro-tobacco ads and tobacco use every day, and that is why it is important for advertisers to know how to send unforgettable anti-tobacco messages to the younger generation.
Just like most businesses, the tobacco industry uses advertising as a tool to sell their products. However, because of the dangers associated with their products this has caused much controversy. Authors of the article "Measuring Exposure to Pro- and Anti-tobacco
Marketing Among Adolescents: Intercorrelations Among Measures and Associations With
Smoking Status" state that "Numerous studies have implicated exposure to tobacco-related marketing as one of the risk factors for smoking" (J. B. Unger et al., 2001). Furthermore, they go on to explain how smoking had increased among young men around 1912 after the introduction of Camel cigarettes and women with the Chesterfield campaign of 1912. (J. B. Unger et al., 2001). Luckily, these numbers have dropped greatly due to known health related risks that were mostly unknown at the time. Oftentimes certain tobacco ads will target a certain group of people and sometimes that means the younger generation. Tobacco companies know how to appeal to the younger crowd in attempts to start them on their product. This has many people outraged in the United States and even in other countries including Canada and across Europe. The United States government decided to do something about it in 1970 when they passed the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act. This law banned any advertising of cigarettes on the television and radio; however, smokeless tobaccos were not taken off the air until 1986. The United States was not the only country to ban tobacco advertising, Canada joined them. In 1997, Canada passed the Tobacco Act which set rules about where tobacco companies were allowed to run ads. This act stopped tobacco companies from sponsoring any major sporting events and did not allow the companies to advertise in places where children could enter (Advertising ban survives, 2007). However, in the United States tobacco companies are still given permission to advertise in most magazines.
Figure 1 shows that tobacco companies do the majority of their advertising in magazines, spending nearly $300 million in 2003. It is clear that tobacco advertisers are now only able to reach a portion of their audience since the Cigarette Smoking Act. Luckily, the United States recognized this a long time ago and did something about it.
In recent years many organizations and cancer charities have pushed for anti-tobacco messages on the air. They have been successful in that hundreds of ads have been created and are increasing in popularity. These messages are typically aimed at youth in order to prevent them from smoking before they ever start. Studies have shown that in 1998 less than 1% of 11-year-olds smoked on a regular basis whereas nearly 21% of 15-year-olds considered themselves regular smokers. It is clear that an important factor in keeping children from smoking is to turn them away from it as early as possible. (Eadie, Evans, Devlin, Stead, 2007). This is why it is important for anti-tobacco advertisers to target the younger generation. One major contributor to the anti-tobacco movement is the Tobacco Prevention and Control Program. This program has helped reduce Washington States youth smoking rates by 50% since its start in 2000 (Black, 2007). Figure 2 depicts smoking rates across the state of Washington which was surely affected by anti-tobacco advertising which became increasingly popular around 1998. Another organization that made a strong effort in the fight against tobacco was the American Legacy Foundation. Even though they were denied from several networks, the foundation continued on with their $150 million anti-tobacco campaign (Goetzl, Teinowitz, 2000). The ads created by the foundation all had a central tag line which was "there is only one product that actually kills a third of the people who use it. Tobacco" (Goetzl, Teinowitz, 2000). Furthermore, with the fourth highest percentage of smokers in the United States, Ohio has also decided to take action (Neff, 2003). The Ohio Tobacco Use Prevention and Control Foundation, created in 2001, has gone to such lengths as to asking MTV to stop showing videos that "glorify" smoking and also creating radio advertisements (Neff, 2003). A study done by the Research Triangle Institute shows that adult smoking rates in Ohio have dropped from 27.7% to 26% since the campaign was started in 2001 (Neff, 2003). I believe it is organizations such as these that really understand the importance of anti-tobacco advertising. As important as anti-smoking and anti-chewing ads are, it is equally important that the advertisers are able to appeal to the younger generation.
Just as many pro-tobacco ads do, anti-tobacco advertisements must be able to appeal to a younger generation to prevent them from starting bad habits. Most anti-tobacco ads will choose between using several different methods that include: Fear appeals, social norms, and industry manipulation. A fear appeal is a method that invokes strong emotions from the audience such as consequences of smoking. Often times these ads will show graphic pictures or video that will essentially attempt to scare the person watching into not smoking or chewing. This method is arguably the most effective method to use when creating an anti-tobacco advertisement. According to the authors of the article "Effects of Anti-Smoking Advertising on Youth Smoking: A Review", they claim that "advertisements which elicit strong emotional arousal, typically those that graphically portray the adverse consequences of smoking, often rate highly among teens and adults, and are associated with increased intention not to smoke" (Flay, Giovino, Nichter, & Wakefield, 2003). Another method used by advertisers is referred to as social norms. Advertisements that use this method often focus on what other people, such as a spouse or a friend, will think of the person smoking (Cohen, Gold, Shumate, 2007). Its objective is to get smokers to believe that smoking is not seen as a positive social norm because it is a disgusting and unhealthy habit. It also makes an effort to persuade the smoker that smoking is not socially acceptable. Finally, the last method that anti-tobacco messages may use is industry manipulation. Its goal is to "encourage young people to reject tobacco and to harness natural youth rebellion and channel it toward rebelling against the tobacco industry" (Eadie, Evans, Devlin, & Stead, 2007). In other words, industry manipulation makes an effort to expose how tobacco companies are evil. The organization known to be most popular at using this method is called "Truth". They run many different ads stating the different chemicals that go into making a cigarette. Furthermore, the Partnership for a Healthy Mississippi has also dished out their own advertisement involving industry manipulation. The ad consists of a chimpanzee locked inside of a cage inside a laboratory of a tobacco company. This ad symbolizes the mistreatment of animals that tobacco companies use to test their products (Teinowitz, 2000). All of these methods are a great way for advertisers to appeal to a younger generation and counter any pro-tobacco ads they may encounter.
Anti-tobacco advertising is an important tool in reducing the smoking rates across the country. The youth of this country are bombarded with tobacco use every day and they should be aware of the dangers that go along with it. I believe the ad industry is very aware of this problem as the American Association of Advertising Agencies (AAAA) has made efforts to sponsor anti-tobacco ads in the past (Teinowitz, 1997). Through the use of fear appeals, social norms, and industry manipulation, advertisers can connect with the younger generation hopefully keep them from using tobacco. So far, these anti-tobacco messages have significantly decreased the smoking rates in many places and that is why people should support these advertisers.
