Chris Fencl
Mr. Bird
English 105
April 27, 2009
The Reasons Why to Fund Stem-Cell Research Paper
Many people have suffered the loss of a loved one to an incurable disease. A disease is defined incurable when modern medicine has no way to stop it, like long-term paralysis because nerve tissue cannot be replaced. Or can it? Science unravels new mysteries every day. One of the more recent discoveries is stem cells. Stem cells are cells found in most multi-cellular organisms with the ability to renew themselves through mitotic cell division then differentiating into a wide range of specialized cell types. Translating this to everyday English, stem cells are blank cells which can change into different kinds of cells depending on the environment they are in. They can change into more than one type of cell and they can survive in many regions throughout an organism. Theoretically, if a stem cell, which is a blank cell, can become a type of cell that is slowly dying out, like a nerve cell, could it not replace those cells and stop the degradation? Theoretically, yes it could do that. Stem cells could replace cancer cells, nerve tissue, bone marrow, or anything that is defined incurable.
Stem-cell research sounds great but it is not being well funded by anyone. The main reason behind this lack of funding is because usually in order to acquire stem cells, an abortion must happen to obtain them. The abortion controversy is a morally grey issue with both sides having equal and fair points. But abortion will continue as long as unprotected sex occurs, especially with teenagers. Abortion should be avoided at all costs to protect the sanctity of life but if fetuses are going to continue to be aborted, then finding the good in a bad situation is necessary. If abortion is going to continue, why not make constructive use of the fetuses to potentially help mankind? If we use those aborted fetuses, we could possibly make an unfortunate situation a little less grim. The incurable, like brain cancer, could potentially be cured. It is a tragedy that a fetus did not get to be born, but let us not let this calamity go to waste and take advantage and the potential good that can be found in this disaster. Stem-cell research should be funded due to its potential medical benefits, versatility of its scientific applications, and to strengthen ethical standards in biological science research.
The stem-cell research debate has been an ongoing battle between those who are pro-choice and those who are pro-life. Stem-cells were discovered by Canadian scientists Ernest Mc Culloch and James Till in the 1960's who defined stem cells and identified their location. One scholar from the Stem-Cell Information Website states, "Stem cells are cells that have the remarkable potential to develop into many different cell types in the body. Serving as a sort of repair system for the body, they can theoretically divide without limit to replenish other cells for as long as the person or animal is still alive. When a stem cell divides, each "daughter" cell has the potential to either remain a stem cell or become another type of cell with a more specialized function, such as a muscle cell, a red blood cell, or a brain cell (http://stemcells.nih.gov/info/faqs.asp)." These two scientists revealed to the world that all cells in multi-cellular organisms begin as stem-cells, blanks cells that are meant to become many different kinds of cells. Stem cells change into their different forms through the influence of their physical environment, essentially becoming the cells that are in that environment. Every cell in an organism on this planet began as a stem-cell but changed with the environment to become the diverse range of cells that an organism contains. Stem cells can be found anywhere in the body of any multi-cellular organism.
If a stem cell can become any kind of cell, could it become a type of cell the body is lacking? Yes because it has been proven first that mice injected with stem cells into their nervous system are able to grow back lost nerve tissue. Stem cells can be found in many places. The two main sources stem cells come from are embryonic stem cells which come from fetuses and adult stem cells which come from throughout the adult human body, mainly through skin cells. So what is being done currently for advancing medical stem-cell research? An editor from Stem Cell Research News interviewed George Q. Daley, M.D., an investigator for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at Children's Hospital, Boston, who said, "Our findings provide the first proof that cells from human blood can morph into stem cells. Making pluripotent stem cells from blood, which is one of the easiest tissues to obtain, provides an easy strategy for generating patient-specific stem cells that are valuable research tools and may one day be used to treat a number of diseases (http://www.stemcellresearchnews.com/)." Stem cells are not always obtained from embryos or adults, but can be found in other places. Therefore, stem-cell research can be done without aborting a fetus. Not only can stem cells be obtained without a fetus but it can be done without harming anything. Why should we not fund stem cell research if it could be safely obtained and could fix unsolved problems in the human body?
Stem-cells can be found almost anywhere and created under safe conditions, but some people are not convinced it is really worth this much trouble. It is still largely unknown if stem-cells are able to do all of what they can do in theory. Heather Rooke, Ph D., an editor for the International Institute for Stem Cell Research, wrote an article about the scientific breakthrough of the year called reprogramming. Reprogramming is the process where stem cells are 'reprogrammed' to become what they are intended to become. In her article, she states, "The term reprogramming has been coined to describe the derivation of induced pluripotent stem cells or i PS cells; where a cell with a specialized function (for example a skin cell) is 'reprogrammed' to become pluripotent, that is, able to form all cell types of the body. Reprogramming can also be used to describe the conversion of one type of specialized cell to another type of specialized cell." Reprogramming has been around for about three years now and serves as the trump card for funding stem cell research, as it implies it could make cells do almost anything. The practice of medicine is built from a cellular level up and if doctors are able to perform work at a cellular level, diseases like cancer and paralysis one day can be treated over the counter at drugstores. If the research is funded, scientists would be able to answer the question whether or not stem-cells are worth the trouble and if they are the miracle cure they could be.
Stem-cell research has very recently begun to be considered to be legal and publically funded in the United States but it is still has many walls to tear down in order for the research to begin. President Barack Obama has begun to remove barriers preventing responsible scientific research involving human stem-cells. In an effort to discover the potential stem cells have for humanity, the President has legalized the research for the first time in over eight years. Barack Obama has put restrictions on what can be done. In the Federal Register, the President stated:
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (Secretary), through the Director of NIH, may support and conduct responsible, scientifically worthy human stem cell research, including human embryonic stem cell research, to the extent of the law. Within One Hundred Twenty Days from the date of this order, the Secretary, through the Director of NIH, shall review existing NIH guidance and other widely recognized guidelines on human stem cell research, including provisions establishing appropriate safeguards, and issue new NIH guidance on such research that is consistent with this order. The Secretary, through NIH, shall review and update such guidance periodically, as appropriate (Obama 3).
Although he legalized stem cell research, President Obama has been a limit on it with consistent inspection in order for the research to stay within good moral and legal bounds, exactly what should happen so the research is not useless or unethical. Science that does not benefit mankind is not new science at all. Setting up ethical standards and research restrictions is necessary not only for bettering mankind but also for mankind to maintain their humanity. A restriction on research and periodic guidance is the first step in a positive direction for funding ethical stem cell research that benefits all of mankind.
Stem cell research has numerous scientific applications outside of the medical field. Though most stem cell research will occur in biology, it does branch off into chemistry and physiology. Funding stem cell research has applications outside of fixing the incurable diseases and outside of fixing a biological problem. Stem cells could improve our knowledge of biochemistry and genetics that no other study has discovered so far. A series of encyclopedias called Methods in Enzymology talk about the scientific versatility stem cells possess. In Volume 418, the editors' state:
Stem cell research is the confluence between cell and developmental biology. It is shaped at every turn by the maturing knowledge base of genetics and biochemistry and is accelerated by the platform technologies of recombinant DNA, monoclonal antibodies, and other biotechnologies. Stem cells are interesting and useful because of their dual capacity to differentiate and to proliferate in an undifferentiated state. Thus, they are expected to yield insights not only into pluripotency and differentiation, but also into cell cycle regulation and other areas, thereby having an impact on fields ranging from cancer to aging (5).
Stem cell research can benefit anything that is composed of cells and is alive, not necessarily just benefiting humans. Funding stem cell research could help humans live a longer life expectancy, harvest and reuse cells, and grant us mastery over our own genetic code. The only thing stopping these discoveries is the funding necessary to complete the research behind these mysteries.
Stem cells are not restricted to be found in just the fetus but are found throughout the adult human body. Stem cell research is not being funded because most people believe it requires an aborted fetus to complete. Many people confuse stem cell research to be only in fetuses. But stem cells can be found in every human being, making it possible and safe to fund stem cell research without promoting abortion because stem cells can be extracted without performing an abortion. The Methods in Enzymology encyclopedias discuss the nature of adult stem cells and their role in stem cell research. One of the editors says, "Adult stem cells are found in most tissues of the adult organism; scientists are beginning to learn how to isolate, culture, and differentiate them into a range of tissue-specific types (and are thus considered multipotent)." Stem cell research is safer and more morally acceptable than many people think it is. Stem cells are not restricted to embryos because they are found in all multi-cellular organisms and throughout the human body. If you support stem cell research, you are not supporting abortion or murder.
There are many uncertainties in stem cell research. It is a relatively new field of study currently with many questions and few answers. Scientists have recently collaborated to find ethical standards to do their research. Many people forget that scientists are humans like everyone else, with a conscience who do want to do the right thing but like everyone else are unsure what is best. The National Research Council and Institute of Medicine wrote a small book about guidelines stem cell researchers are required to follow in their research. It says, "The guidelines do not cover research that uses nonhuman stem cells. Many, but not all, of the guidelines and concerns addressed in this report are common to other areas of human stem cell research, such as (1) research that uses human adult stem cells, (2) research that uses fetal stem cells or embryonic germ cells derived from fetal tissue." People often misunderstand that researchers want to do good and are not doing these things out of malice. Stem cell researchers want to help the world by curing diseases, not creating a disease of mistrust and misunderstanding between mankind.
The difference between embryonic and adult stem cells differs not only in public debate but in scientific laboratories. The difference is not well known because adult stem cells and embryonic stem cells, though very similar, have different capabilities that cause the two to be studied independently of each other. The National Research Council and Institute of Medicine wrote a book called the Guidelines for Human Embryonic Research which addresses the scientific and ethical reasons why the two different kinds of stem cells must be studied independently. The text states, "There are important biological differences between embryonic and adult stem cells. Embryonic stem cells show a much greater capacity for self-renewal, can be cultured to generate large numbers of cells, and are pluripotent- they have the potential for differentiation into a very wide variety of cell types. In contrast, adult stem cells appear to be capable of much less proliferation and, in general, have a restricted range of developmental capacities; that is, they can differentiate into only a limited array of cells." The reason why many Americans are unaware of adult stem cells is because they are not as useful research specimens as embryonic stem cells. Still, funding only adult stem cell research would still lead to possible cures for cancer and paralysis. Therefore, funding stem cell research can be done without any morally grey matters of murder or bodily harm.
The main argument against stem cell research is it is an unethical practice. Many people in today's world believe in both religion and science equally, like accepting evolution and creationism to be taught equally in our schools without emphasis on one over the other, but not all of the American public believes both and usually picks one over the other. Since this dilemma, scientists across the nation have conglomerated to create a new field of study called bioethics, or ethical standards in biological research. Dr. Robert M. Veatch of Georgetown University is one of the pioneers of bioethics and he wrote a book in 2000 about the birth of bioethics. In the book, he says, "The moral problems with manipulation of sperm and egg cells are often believed to be less troublesome than are those arising from manipulating a late-term fetus or postnatal infant. It is important to know why. It must be that, no matter how we attribute value and moral status to sperm and egg cells, we view them has having a moral standing that is different for that of the late-term fetus or postnatal infant. If we can identify what it is that is responsible for this perceived shift in moral status, perhaps we can understand better the ethics of the moral treatment of the fetus and when full moral standing accrues (Veatch 29)." Researchers are creating moral standards to do their studies while paying the respect the specimen deserves separately of arguments against biological research. Researchers are people just like the protestors who oppose funding stem cell research. They have moral standards and are trying to respect life just like the protestors. While protestors are against abortion because it kills unborn children, researchers are against fetuses going to waste because the research could save millions of people from potentially incurable diseases.
The controversy of stem-cell research has two main sides: pro-choice and pro-life. However, regardless of how logical one side may be, the person giving up the fetus is the woman and her body is her right. What happens in the future of stem cell research is really up to the woman and what she believes is right to do with her fetus, whether it is having an abortion or giving birth. A group of researchers wrote a book called Embryos Ethics and Women's Rights that explore the ethical rights woman have regarding their bodies and whatever comes from it. Many researchers are concerned with how people respect life. One of the researchers, John A. Robertson, says, "However, the embryo might still be accorded value as a symbol of human life generally. I want to make a distinction between owing the embryo respect by virtue of its existing characteristics, and according respect because of what it might become. While the embryo in itself may not yet be a rights-bearing entity, it clearly has the potential to attain the characteristics of persons, if certain contingencies occur. Persons may choose to invest the embryo with meaning as a symbol of human life generally, even though justice does not require that we protect it in any particular way. Particular efforts to demonstrate respect for the embryo as symbol, however, must meet constitutional standards." Even though the fetus may not have rights yet, the women who give up the fetuses to research do. Whether we give fetuses respect for it possibly becoming a person or what it can do for humanity, scientists are demanding fetuses to be respected as people and not letting their chance at life to go to waste. They are encouraging women and everyone else to respect their fetuses and be responsible for how each fetus could impact our world.
Stem-cell research should be supported and funded because of the potential medical advantages it has, the flexibility of its scientific functions, and the benefits it brings to strengthening biological science research moral standards. Funding stem-cell research would lead doctors to better understand and treat patients with crippling and disabling diseases and potentially cure them. It would advance a range of different technical applications outside of medicine due to its scientific versatility. Funding stem cell research would demonstrate ethical biological research and strengthen many people's faith that scientific studies can be morally acceptable. When a fetus is denied life, it is a horrible tragedy, no question about it. But if these tragedies continue, let us not let their sacrifice go to waste and hope that their forfeited lives may be able to save others. Funding stem cell research would allow their tragedy to become a light in dark times.
