Women in the Corporate World 1
Viewpoint Paper: Women in the Corporate World
Heather Copeland
Ms. Clark-Sanchez
English 105
April 2, 2009
Women in the Corporate World
Ever since the 1920's women were able to work, however they could only work certain jobs. Since then, the advancement of women has been on the rise. This includes the workplace and what positions they can hold or advance to. Many women have found ways around obstacles and made it to the top of company chains. The obstacles women face in the business world are among the same obstacles they face every day when it comes to living an ordinary day to day life. Such obstacles are stereotypes, family obligations, and being a minority. Being a minority as well as a woman makes it harder to do the things that "white males" can do such as living the American Dream when it comes to succeeding. Women are usually held at a lower standard than men and are not believed to be able to accomplish the same things as men. These obstacles in the wider world led to the obstacles and hardships they now face in the business world. The advancement of women in this specific world has been a very hard thing to accomplish. However, by allowing women to overcome these obstacles more than just women will benefit. This will always be a major issue in the minds of women because it is their hardship to overcome with their personal ability to do it. Every woman has a different hurdle to jump over when it comes to their profession because not all women are the same and not all women are going for the same job. This is also a major issue to men because they don't want their jobs being taken by women. The success of women depends on how they break through the famous glass ceiling and how they are affected by the things that try to stop them.
Women have fought for many rights throughout the past century in the U.S. such as voting rights and working rights. They have found their way through the hard times of the past and still come out of every situation and achieved what they were going for. Some obstacles they face in the business world today are the typical stereotypes about women not being as smart and not having ideas as good as men's. They also face sexism by mainly male executives who do the hiring. It's a very well known opinion that the age of women is one of the main factors in getting a job. If you are older, you may not get the job because people may think that your ideas are old fashioned and you already have a set idea of work ethics that you have learned from previous jobs that may need changed and they are not willing to help change it. Also, if you are a younger, fresh out of college woman with "good looks", you may get the job because the male executive hiring you thinks you are cute and just wants you around to look at regardless of your experience or education level. Other stereotypes are that the woman should be at home raising a family instead of working all the time. Therefore, a woman may not be hired because having a family may take time out of their work or may influence how they do their work. These are just a few examples of stereotypes that may or may not be true in each particular case. Women have shown throughout the past that stereotyping against them may not be a good thing because they can still accomplish what they want to accomplish, with or without the obstacles.
Even though stereotyping has affected the way women get jobs, once they do reach that top executive level they are unstoppable. "There were matriarchal societies where women had high statuses, were preeminent as cultivators and were glorified as goddesses" (Lewis 2008). In the past women were held to such a high esteem and were known as the ruler of the family and could do anything. In the past when things were harder for women, they held up to this stereotype by not going into the workforce with all their ability. "Once women are in the executive hierarchy, they do well in terms of ranks" (Helfat, Harris, Wolfson).
Source: Dawn Prochnow. Unacceptable Progress
The chart above shows how steady the increase in women as executive officers is. Since 1998 the number of women in that specific job position has risen 9% by 2003. The rise has been steady. There wasn't any drastic incline or decline. This shows that women are taking a turn for the better when it comes to being in a higher level position. This trend is a very good one because it represents how women are becoming more prominent in the corporate world.
When being interviewed by an already established top executive, women worry about whether or not they have enough education or the right education to get the job. This plays a big role in being hired because the majority of those who hire are men who have at least a bachelors' degree. Even if women have the right educational background, some males who hire them may not see that because they want to believe that men are better than women and look past it to the men that have either a higher education or a better experience background. Studies have shown that women are more likely to be better at school because they tend to take their grades and assignments more seriously than men. It has also been shown that towards the end of terms, men are apt to slack off more. Women also make it one of their goals to get to know their professors, so they find more ways to get better grades. This may be through extra study groups or meeting with their professors during office hours. In fact, some researchers have discovered "As teenagers, men are more likely to drop out of high school, commit suicide, or be incarcerated. Such difficulties can have echoes in college men" (Terjesen, Singh 2008). In the past, more men graduated college then women. "Today, there are about 1. 35 women graduates for every man" (Wessel 2002). Both men and women go to the same schools and get the same educations, but why is it that women are getting shut out more often than men when it comes to being a top executive? This question poses a major opinion in the eyes of everyone, which is why it is harder for women to get those same jobs as men when they have the same schooling.
Once women finally reach that top executive position, they still face some obstacles. One of the major concern is pay gaps. "Pay is an outcome of the employment exchange relationship, and women are generally weaker partners in a business and industrial world designed by males for male breadwinners" (Tamar 2006). Ever since people can remember, men have been known as the breadwinners of the family meaning they go to work and bring home the money. This is how women got the stereotype of being the family person and staying home with the children. So, once women finally got into the workforce, it was hard to determine how much they should get paid for what position. So, naturally they got paid lower because of their lack of education compared to a man's education. "In 2006, the typical woman earned 77% of the typical man's wage" (Wessel 2002). Now, this may seem like a big percentage, but it really isn't. In the chart below, it shows the median earnings of men and women between 1960 and 2006. A man's salary was above $30,000 while a women's was below $20,000.
Source: Lane Kenworthy. The New Laffer Curve
The numbers in this chart show that women's pay is steadily increasing while men's pay is steadily leveling out. However, men's pay is still significantly higher than a woman's pay.
In 1964 the Civil Rights Act was passed. This act prohibits workplace discrimination against minorities. "Sex discrimination under Title VII includes discrimination based on pregnancy, sex stereotyping, and sexual harassment" (Civil Rights Act of 1964). Under this law and this specific title, women can file complaints when they feel that they have been discriminated against in the workplace and essentially sue the company that they feel used the discrimination. The Civil Rights Act also established the Equal Pay Act which "prohibits sex-based pay discrimination between men and women who perform under similar working conditions" (Civil Rights Act of 1964). This specific law was set in place in 1963, but to this day women are still not getting paid the same amount as men. It might be an incentive for companies to raise the amount they pay women because by not doing so, they can be sued.
"Two facts matter to businesses: only women have babies and only men make rules" (Schwartz 2001). Many think that women run things based on emotion and their heart. This is true, but there is more to it. Women don't run a business by bossing people around. Sure some do, but most do not. Women run things with inspiration and motivation. A lot of women start programs that motivate their employees to do better work and to put more into their work day. Men tend to boss their employees around telling them what to do and how to do it. Women also inspire people by doing a lot of work themselves. Men are shown by the media as always sitting behind their desk taking calls all day long. "Men exhibit take-charge vs. Take-care behaviors" (Lewis 2008). Men tend to set the rules and sit back and watch rather than make sure their employees are on track on not behind by helping them.
Recently, women have found ways to avoid corporation altogether. One example of this is Girls, Inc. This is a way for young women to work in groups within their state and make business plans to present to a major company. "The goal isn't to get the young women to actually launch these businesses, but rather to get them to think about entrepreneurship as a career" (Tozzi 2008). This gives young girls incentives to avoid corporations and start their own businesses. This gives them the upper hand, because as they get older they can actually take their own business plan and put it into action. this should scare major companies into hiring more women to show that they support women in the workplace, which will then show young women that they should not be afraid to go for what they really want which may be a top executive in a Fortune 500 company.
Companies want executives who put their all into the company including their time. For some women this poses a problem. There are two types of women, career-family and career-primary. Career-primary women are like most men. They put their jobs first and are more likely to be single and childless. They put so much time and energy into having a job and running a company that they don't have time to have a family. This way nothing interrupts their time with their job. Career-family women have serious careers and a family. They can't put as much time into their work load as career-primary women, but they still have some time to put into it and the talent to succeed. With this, companies find it harder to hire women because they want people who commit all their time to their work. The upside to a career-family woman for a company is that fewer hours worked results in lower salaries and the company will spend less on overtime. However, they may spend money on maternity leave which is not a loss because they would pay the women to be at work. The company just does not get extra work out of it and has to assign more work to more people. These two different types of women play a huge role on stereotypes because they define women by two categories which add to the opinions men have against women.
Entrepreneurship should come down to one thing, "it should not matter what size, shape, color, or sex the entrepreneur might be" (Greene, et al 2008). Entrepreneurship is known and defined as creating and starting of a business. Since women are beginning to own more businesses, corporations should be worried that these businesses will eventually become bigger companies like their own which will in turn create more competition for them. "The number of women owned companies is growing faster than the total number of firms" (Tozzi 2008). If corporations want less competition and want to be the big company, this can be done by eliminating stereotypes and allowing women to rise up in a company without worrying about a glass ceiling."The number of women-run businesses is rising 60% faster than those run by men" (CBIC World Markets 2005). This growing number should show men that women are good at running businesses and can essentially help their business. In the past few years, the United States economy has declined drastically. This means that businesses are not performing at what they should. "In nations where women have advanced, economic growth has been steady. By contrast, in countries where women have been restricted, the economy remains stagnant" (Jalbert 2000). In order for the economy to have a chance at getting better, women must be able to rise above the famous glass ceiling. "Recent surveys conducted in several countries by the National Foundation of Women Business Owners (NFWBO) indicate that women-owned firms involved in the global marketplace Women Entrepreneurs in the Global Economy have greater revenues, are more optimistic about their business prospects and are more focused on business expansion than women-owned firms that are domestically oriented"(Jalbert 2000). By allowing more women to be involved in the business and its process the business will expand, raise more profit and be able to go more global than before. In order to have a better company and preferably a better economy, women must be a part of the whole process.
Women will always face hardships no matter how far the glass ceiling is raised in the corporate world. Opinions will always be changing when it comes to companies hiring women as executives. Whether women are hired or not, there is normally a barrier set by the companies that will only allow women to get so far because the executive has an opinion or idea about how women should be or what position they should work in. Stereotyping against women, or anyone for that matter, can be a bad thing because it sets standards that women have to overcome, making it harder for them to overcome and break through that glass ceiling. This leads to a power struggle and more men becoming threatened by their jobs being taken over or their pay decreasing because people finally realize that everyone should be paid around the same amount of money. Therefore, women have a hard time coming up in this world and men should look at their own opinions as being wrong and reassess how women should be treated in the corporate world. Eliminating stereotypes means that women will benefit, but also companies and the economy will benefit and essentially grow. Women have the right just like anyone else to be treated with and earn the same respect that men get.
