Mc Griggs1
Mica Mc Griggs
April 30th 2009
Kacie Beagen
Gay Rights
Questions about sexual orientation have been asked for centuries, and people have different answers for every question, there is no scientific evidence to support many of the theories surrounding homosexuality. However the most Supreme Being of the entire universe even God the omnipotent has given a clear and straightforward opinion about acting out homosexual desires. "Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination (Leviticus 18:22). This short but powerful scripture is all that millions of people throughout the world need to support the opinion that men were created to be married to women, and not other men and visa verse; it's also enough for me. Christians are not the only religious group of people to feel this way about homosexuality, Jews, Muslims, and Hindus, also agree with Christian opinion on the issue. Participating in homosexual relationships is a sin, and is not practical for human beings.
If you look at the anatomy of men and women it is clear to see that men were created by God to have sexual relations with women. The sexual organs that men and women have were created to procreate life this can only happen through the process of sexual intercourse between a man and a woman, whether you believe God created man or that we evolved from apes this is still our natural design. Male and female sex organs fit together, they were meant to interact.
Although the sex organs of males and females fit together perfectly, and God has openly stated his opinion about homosexuality; some people have chosen to act out the sinful desires of their hearts. I don't believe that homosexuals choose to have these attractions however I also do not believe that they are born with them either; no one has been able to prove that there is a biological or chemical difference in homosexuals and therefore they have no real excuse for acting out such behavior. Many doctors have spent years studying homosexuals and their overtly sexual behavior, and many people believe that with therapy these unnatural sexual feelings can be repressed or even changed (Yarhouse).
The National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuality better known as NARTH has been an avid advocate for homosexuals who seek change, these brave people choose to learn to control their feelings and more importantly their behavior. "There is no such thing as a "gay gene" and there is no evidence to support the idea that homosexuality is simply genetic. However, biological influences may indeed influence some people toward homosexuality; recent studies point to prenatal-hormonal influences, especially in men, that result in a low-masculinized brain; also, there may be genetic factors in some people -- both of which would affect gender identity, and therefore sexual orientation. But none of these factors mean that homosexuality is normal and a part of human design, or that it is inevitable in such people, or that it is unchangeable. Numerous examples exist of people who have successfully modified their sexual behavior, identity, and arousal or fantasies (NARTH)." I have a friend who is in a change therapy program in the valley, and he has been going to therapy for about a year and he has really started to notice the change in his feelings. His feelings towards other males as not yet begun to subside however he has been able to control his behavior and has not had any sexual contact with any males since he started his journey; even more promising in the fact that he has started to develop romantic feelings towards females, he is dating a girl right now and he truly enjoyed kissing a female for the first time in his life. At the rate he is going I know that he will reach true change, just like his mentor who was gay in high school, and through therapy has reached change and is now happily married to a wonderful woman. My friends mentor is not a miracle this change is possible, although it is much like a drug addiction in that each day is a struggle, however he is happier than ever before.
Although change is possible we will never be able to help all homosexuals, our society has decided that homosexual behavior is natural and should be embraced. This has created new issues that people have never had to deal with before, gay rights, marriage, adoption, beneficiary benefits. Marcia Hams and Susan Shephard were the first homosexual couple to be legally married in the United States, the state of Massachusetts began the path to the desecration of marriage on May 17th 2004 (Altman). When Massachusetts decided it was right to redefine marriage other states began to contemplate how marriage should be defined in their own states. There has been several court cases surrounding gay marriage, in 1996 the United States took a stand on protecting marriage when the Supreme Court passed the Defense of Marriage Act was passed. Many citizens have pressured legislators to pass gay marriage laws (LA Times).
The most recent and definitely most controversial piece of legislation was California's proposition 8, this bill was put together in order to amend California's state constitution and define marriage as between a man and a woman. In the year 2000 California citizens voted yes on Prop 22 which illegalized gay marriage. This piece of legislation was a statute that California voters thought would protect traditional marriage, and it did until May of 2008 when four California State Supreme Court Judges overturned the ruling calling it unconstitutional. How could this unjust action take place in America, the people had spoken and four men were able to overrule their decision to keep marriage a sacred institution ordained by God? The only way to right the wrong would be to put the issue on the next elections ballot, so in November of 2008 Proposition 8 became the most important issue on the ballot. If passed an amendment to the constitution of California would be made stating the states definition of marriage as between one man and one woman only (Wetztein).
If the proposition were to fail marriage would be desecrated and anyone could be married, this would eventually lead to legalizing polygamy and could even legalize marriages between children, or even children and adults. These are just a few of the consequences of this proposition failing, there are many more; priests and other Christian pastors could be forced to perform same sex marriages in their churches. This is outrageous no one who is clearly against gay marriage should be forced to perform a sacred ritual against their belief system. When gay marriage became legal in Massachusetts teachers began teaching children as young as second grade about gay marriage and how life would be great with two moms or two dads. When parents complained and took the issue to the court system judges ruled that parents had no right to have a say or be informed on what was being taught in the classroom. This type abuse of power is completely unacceptable; public schools are to answer to parents who are the tax payers that keep these schools running, not having a say as to what is being taught to your children in a public school is a complete and utter outrage (Kennard).
The other issue that was present for voters to consider was that under section 297. 5 of the California Family Code couples engaged in domestic partnerships have the same rights as far as benefits as married couples. So why the need to redefine this sacred institution ordained by God; marriage was set up for the purpose of procreation, not so everyone could participate (Wetztein).
On November fourth 2008 the people of California had the opportunity to make their voices heard Proposition 8 won by a landslide. In Arizona the same issue was also on their ballot, Prop 102 defining marriage as between one man and one woman passed. These two states took a stand to defend traditional marriage, now their children are protected, their churches are protected, and this sacred institution is now protected from all the deviants who want to desecrate it.
The other side of the argument is that marriage is a civil right that should be granted to all law abiding, taxpaying citizens. However if people want to "rights" although marriage is not a right, they need to go about it in a different way. When the decision was made to protect traditional marriage in California the gay community and their supports were up in arms, a few days later they held a not so peaceful protest outside of the Mormon temple in Los Angeles. Although the Catholic Church and other Christian sects supported Proposition 8 financially, just as much as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saint (Mormons) did it seemed as though the Mormon Church had single handedly denied gays the right to be married. People crowded around the gates of one of the most sacred buildings to the Mormon people and began to scream and chant profanities at the building. "Tax the Mormon Church", "F word the Mormon Church" and so many other profanities that were animalistic. These people claimed that the church had broken tax laws, however when questioned on which laws were broken not even the president of the gay and lesbian coalition could name which laws were broken. Many of the protestors even tried to climb over the gates and break into the sacred temple. Even celebrities were caught on tape protesting outside the temple, Janice Dickinson, Drew Barrymore, and Whoopi Goldberg, were yelling profanities towards the Mormon people. This type of behavior is not the way to convert people to agree with your opinion; maybe these people should take a lesson from the example of Dr. King who got his point across peacefully and actually making changes. Screaming profanity is not the way to go, all that protest did was reiterate why the citizens of California voted the way they did, it did not help the gay community (LA Times).
The people of California and Arizona made a smart choice in November, other states are going to have to take a stand sooner or later, let's just pray that they will choose to protect the sacred and holy institution of marriage.
The other big issue that Americans are starting to have to ponder and make decisions on is gay couples adopting children. Should gay couples be able to adopt and raise children? There are many opinions surrounding the issue, and many people feel that this issue is even more important that the issue of gay marriage, because there are children's lives to be considered. Those in favor of gay couples being granted the opportunity to adopt and raise children are of the opinion that why does it matter what the makeup of the family is as long as the children have two loving supportive parents. Understandably it is incredibly important for children to have two loving parents, but it is just as important that one is a male role model and one is a female role model. Studies have shown that children gain character traits from mothers and fathers, children need both parents present in order to learn these gender specific traits (Adamczyk). Boys learn how to treat women from their father's interactions with their mothers; girls learn how to be treated in relationships by their fathers, because they have been loved and treated well by a man and will demand the same treatment from men in romantic relationships. These are just of few of the traits that are learned in two parent heterosexual homes. Heterosexual two parent homes have much lower rates of teen pregnancy, drug use and depression (George).
It is not right for a child to be purposefully deprived of a mother or a father, the most important parent to a child is the same sex parent, and children should not have to live a deprived life. Many critics say two dads or two moms is better than none, however homosexual households could end up to be just as damaging to a child if not more so than not having parents at all. Imagine for a moment a child that has been raised in a homosexual house hold going to school and trying to make friends, when the other children find out that this boy or girl has two dads or two moms, just try to imagine the ridicule. Kids are constantly looking for differences in other kids, imagine being a chubby child, or dark skinned, or have freckles, now add two moms or two dads; this child's social life is now turned from awkward to a living hell. Is this right? The answer is no, it's not, it is abuse, please let's not legalize this type of child abuse.
The other issue here is if homosexuality keeps on the path it is going, it will become normal. The only way procreate life is between and man and a woman as I stated earlier, What would happen if gay couples keep adopting children? Imagine one hundred years from now we could have more homosexual couples than heterosexual couples which would lead to more people dying than being born; this could lead to the earth's inhabitants becoming extinct. This is a bold statement, however if someone were to really ponder on it they would see that it is a real and frightening possibility.
All of the states have different laws regarding gay adoptions, however Arkansas was one of the first states to make a clear stance on gay adoption, it is against the law in the state of Arkansas. Just as states have started to take stands on same sex marriage, the states also need to start making decisions on same sex couple adoption, and hopefully the states will follow in Arkansas footsteps (Barth).
Gay rights and homosexuality in general have given Americans topics for thought and discussion, which is what is needed, when the facts are laid out on the table it is much easier to make decisions. Americans must now start taking a stand lets protect our traditions, religions, and most importantly families. It's about time to stop sitting on the fence and choose a side, one that will protect our children's future. Think, ponder, pray, and take action; protect the American dream that our founding fathers had for this great nation, a nation that has been truly blessed by the hand of God.
