Tiffany Anderson
April 28, 2009
English 105
Holly Richards
Long-Argumentative Paper
"Tornadoes: Is technology up to pare with unpredictable/ uncontrollable weather?"
The wind howls outside, as the clouds begin to creep in silently. While many are sleeping, a devastating disaster is approaching and brewing in the clouds above their homes. The sky growls with thunder and strikes out with lighting at anything within its path, this is only the beginning. However, this lightning thunderstorm, takes a frightening turn; the air about the city changes and the rain is quickly turns into large hailstones the size of golf balls that has the potential of ripping holes through roofs and through windshields. The wind picks up; going up in terrifying speeds and begins to uproot trees. This becomes the beginning of a severe storm. The whole atmosphere just freezes in time as the wind stops and it seems as though life besides humans has gone missing. The scent of sulfur before the storm covers the air with a mist as it takes its worst turn. Developing rainstorms have strong lighting, as the storms often destroy houses and other establishments. They happen not only on a global scale, but local as well. The winds boost and destroy houses and the hail from the storms cause property damage, which leaves the town in shambles. Although there are sirens they are often muffled by the sounds of high-powered winds. People scramble out of bed and hurry to areas where there aren't any windows, like basements or safe rooms. Tornadoes are the most destructive weather forms in society, unpredictable and hard to determine why they form. They can start with just the simplest of rainstorms that can turn deadly.
The Doppler Radar system is the current detector for locating any developing severe storm. However, the position of the Doppler is higher off the ground and closer to the troposphere. The troposphere can identify dew points, rising temperatures that fall and weather that is taking place. When the Doppler identifies the storm the storm is already in progress and the advanced warning systems are only allowing twelve-minute reaction times for people to get to safety. By lowering the Doppler's closer to the ground where tornadoes develop from the ground up, it could help siren readiness faster and saving the lives of many.
Tornadoes are deadliest and most unpredictable weather forms that have ever been tracked on a radar system. Unlike hurricanes that can't be monitored for a longer periods and determined at the direct location it is going to hit. In spite of everything they can take place in the day or at night or even in the winter from recent studies. The main question that many meteorologists are still determining is why do they form at all? However, what they currently know is all "tornadoes go through similar stages in development" (Keller 254 "The first is "dust-whirl stage," As dust is slowly picked up off the ground, it then creates a funnel cloud from the thunderstorm in the progress. The second stage is called, "organizing stage," the supercell that has a developing tornado inside begins to rotate and intensifies. The third stage is the, " mature stage," this is a damaging state where the funnel cloud widens and pull up into a vertical position perfect for the structure to develop from the updrafts and downdrafted air. The fourth stage is called, "shrinking stage," where the tornado beings to tilt and picks up speed and causing damaging destructions that may end deadly. The final stage is called," decay stage," this is when the tornado finally weakens slowly start to diminish" (Reynolds 136).
Thunderstorms that cause cool-dry air, which can be unstable, then causing the winds to shift creating an updraft funnel to spin faster thus a tornado is now in pursuit. A tornado can be identified as, "a violently rotating column of air that is in contract with the ground" (Douglas 2007). Seen in Fig. A, it shows the formation on how tornadoes begin out as a wall cloud that is low hanging in the air. Then when cool and warm updrafts meet they cause circulation, or a vortex, creating a funnel cloud, thus is the structure of a tornado.
Fig. A.
One important aspect of tornadoes is the supercell or wind duration. Supercells are the main cause of rotation to develop a tornado. "These cells are the most violent of all storms causing mass amount of rain, lightning strikes and large amounts of hail to be produced in the updrafts"(Dunlop 83).
Each tornado is determined by the Fujita Scale, "meaning the damage and microburst from the downdrafts of the storm" (Douglas 2007). The ranges of the intensity of this microburst are from EF-0 to EF-5. Seen in Fig. B, The change in the numbers adds up to the wind speed and the amount of possible damages.
F-0
65-85 mph
The breakage of tree branches and signboards
F-1
86-110 mph
Roof uplifts and moving vehicles to be blown off the road
F-2
111-135 mph
Mobile home demolishment and boxcar overturned
F-3
136-165 mph
Severe damages to roofs and small walls to be torn off and trees in forest to be uplifted and thrown
F-4
166-200 mph
Devastating damages to homes to be completely ripped apart and cars to be thrown some distance
F-5-"The hand of god,"
+200 mph
Everything in it path is left looking like a war zone; nothing is left standing
(Fig. B, Fujita Scale Keller 256)
The heavy winds that gain speed throughout the circulation going clockwise, is the main cause to the destruction to properties, crops and other validities. Debris is a large amount of the injuries and deaths per year. However as seen through the Fujita Scale, debris is increased with the velocity it picks up. The winds are a huge cause in the production, but imagine large scrap metal flying at you 100 mph fatalities is likely in this path.
The current use of technology used for locating and determining strong severe storms are: Doppler Radar system, the Doppler on Wheels and weather balloons, probes, remote controlled planes, sirens and hailstone samples. The most recognizable although is the Doppler Radar found on local weather channels relying the ten day forecast. The Doppler Radar is commonly used for monitoring and predicts the weather for public safety or just weekday weather forecasts. " Antennas send out electromagnetic radiation that has a wavelength. clouds, raindrops, ice particles reflect these electromagnetic waves back to a receiving antennas" (Keller 2008). They are generally located on the top of radio satellite towers in the majority of every county, but not all of them. They have the ability of only reading about a hundred mile radiuses for detecting on coming weather.
Watches and warnings are put on using the Doppler Radar systems to locate the potential developments of storms in the region. They keep people up to date on the intensity of the progressing storms and to send out signals for the sirens when a destructive or life threatening storm has upraised. Watches are identified as, " possibility of a tornado or a tornadoes, or developing in the near future" (Keller 2008). Meteorologist and local television stations keep the public informed by closely monitoring them. Warnings on the other hand are, " a tornado has actually been sighted or detected by weather radar" (Keller 2008).
Despite weather is never one hundred percent positive and can change spontaneously at any given time the room for scientific experiments to test the limits of science research like so many times before. Some believe that it will make a difference, such as, Kevin Droegemar a meteorologist from the University of Oklahoma. He believes that the lack of warning times that are false is the cause of the location of the Doppler Radar satellites. "We have reached our limit.radars are only put in certain locations they are not everywhere. (Lucas). Including the lack of data it can read from a long distance, right now it is only about a hundred miles. That range is not very far so in a way the National Weather service have guess a large range of possible severe storms developing and the high area with the degree change is the one chosen. The Doppler is the best use of detector, but the weather is recording is already happening, the satellites are neither fast enough nor accurate. In result it can only giving small amounts of leeway for radar analysts to put out the warning time. "Tornado prediction remains frustrating unreliable, with the average warning time of only thirteen minutes and a false-alarm rate of around 75 percent" (Frankel, 2009). Droegemar is currently trying an experimental test involving the lowering of the satellites closer to the ground since tornado happen from the ground up. It is of now that it is a non-cost experience but he hopes to one day have an," half hour before they occur (tornadoes). we need to see closer to the ground where we don't really observe, he says. The data he hopes to one-day spot directly when and where a tornado will strike, but as of now even a thunderstorm is hard to predict; unfortunately science hasn't reached that far yet. A colleague of Kevin's, Josh Wurmer, a member of the Center for Severe Weather Research in Boulder, CO and former storm chaser on the Discovery Channel. He believes that "25% of supercell thunderstorms form tornadoes, but some don't" (Lucas). So roughly one out of every five supercells have the potential to create a tornado. If Kevin is right with this experimental project it could accurately locate a supercell and possibly increase the warning times to twenty to third minutes instead of twelve to fourteen minutes. The main objection for all meteorologists is to warn the people and he may just be that person to boost that cause.
Every year roughly one thousand of these beautiful, but deadly weather phenomena's take place. As seen in Fig. C, the cold air from the Rockies and the warm air from the Gulf of Mexico is carried up in the central portion of the United States thus overlapping and creating, " Tornado Alley."
Fig. C.
swiping from Texas up north through the Canadian border. The most well known state is Oklahoma, from a data stating the numbers of tornadoes that hit from 1950 to 1994, Oklahoma ranked second. Texas rated 5,490 tornadoes where Oklahoma had 2,300 tornadoes for the time frame (Douglas 2007). This data demonstrates that although Texas ranked first the most tornadoes within those years, it shows that Oklahoma is still a clearly dangerous state to live within the Tornado Alley. Due to being closer to the Gulf it has the perfect set up for these lines of storms. Even with the current global warming condition it is said to have intensified these storms to produce many at once, even up to twenty in a week.
As a result the technology that is recently being used isn't always accurate, but weather is uncontrollable and can be hard to determine with some of the resources available. People don't understand that science has come a long way with information that we now know that we didn't know back in the nineties. We use what got and go from there, everyday new developments are found so it's only a matter of time for the unbearably hard question has a solution. I'd like to think that every science has a hypothesis and a thesis and by testing them you find your solution, even if you're wrong the first couple of times. Every year tornadoes get stronger and harder to detect, not all tornadoes are created equal in a sense. The Doppler Radar has helped save lives in the past and will do so until newer devices are put to the test. Technology like the weather can always fail or change course so you use your best intuition and try to save as many lives possible, however you can't save everyone. Currently in Lincoln, NE the local university (UNL) has $11. 9 million study to taking place for a five-week trial. Starting in May to June, this will be the first time since aircraft was set from the sea. The study, called Tempest, involves a remote-control plane in which will be set into supercell of the tornado getting readings that have never been recorded. However, due to the risks of damage the aircraft will not be flying directly into the tornado but where as into the stream of air feeding it. "The goal is to improve tornado forecasting so people have more advanced warnings..fewer false alarms." The instrument should be capable of reading, "temperatures, humidity, and pressure. The cost per place up to $25,000 and has the speed of 50 mph" (Omaha World Herald). The locations on which they planes to take off convently are on the planes of Tornado Alley. These states include: South Dakota, western Iowa, eastern Colorado, Nebraska, Kansas, the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma.
Even with storms prediction currently not as accurate as many meteorologists wish the new development experiments taking place may one day be the breakthrough in science history. I hope that one day I am one of those people that can help contribute to these public safety causes. Weather that doesn't have a known cause is a beautiful site, but when you imagine the destruction its may have at the end of the tunnel new perspectives arise. That is why I am pro-placement of the Doppler Radar to be close to the ground. It takes just one person to think of an idea and to have a significant outcome.
Work cited
Douglas, P. (2007). Restless Skies: The Ultimate Weather. New York, NY: Sterling Publishing.
Dunlop, S. (2008). Guide to Weather Forecasting. Firefly Books Ltd. Buffalo,
New York. p 83.
Engeriser, A. Tornadoes and Volcanoes. Tornadoes and Volcanoes Web site. Retrieved March 9, 2009, from http://lakeharbormiddle.stpsb.org
Frankel, L (2009). Funnel Vision. Discover: Science, Technology, and the Future, 35-39
Gaarder, N.(2009 April 9). Exploring uncharted air at fringe of a twister. Omaha World Herald, A1-2.
Jeananda, Col. (1996). Tornado Alley. Enchanted Learning Web site. Retrieved March 9, 2009, from http://www. Enchanted Learning.com
Keller, E. & Blodgett R. (2006-2008). Natural Hazards 2nd edition Earth's Processes as Hazards, Disasters, and Catastrophes. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
Lucas, T. (Director). Nova network. Hunt for the Supertwister pt. 2 [Video]. Nova network http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LGr UFCR04w8
Olsen, C. (2009, February 19). First line of storm defense. Omaha World Herald, A1-2.
Reynolds, R. (2008). Eyewitness Companions: Weather, Forecasting, Weather Phenomena, Climate Change, and Meteorology, Dorling Kindersley Limited: Met Office, UK, pp 136
