Todd Gardner
English 105
Hannah Pralle
Suicide of a Young Country
As land of the free, home of the brave the grand U.S of A. is a testament to freedom and democracy. This country is an example all around the world eyes are watching us; eyes of jealousy, hate, admiration, love and hope. We are the baby who has quickly and forcibly matured into an adolescent, and a very powerful one at that. It is yet to be seen if we are to successfully continue onwards in our journey to adulthood. Will we overstep our boundaries; will all the risks and gambles we've taken pay off? As of right now, we are starting to see some of the negative consequences of some of our decisions, and in one area in particular, education. Public schools all across America are cutting programs to save money, in order to satisfy the strict and measly budgets that are permitted them. The effects of these ever shrinking budgets are starting to surface, and they aren't pretty. It is not simply these budgets that are suffocating creativity and hope of the young ones that are quite literally our future. It is the flawed values and priorities that our country upholds.
The ancient city state of Athens has been referred to as the cradle of Western civilization and the birthplace of democracy. Not only did the Athenian people value the idea of the people ruling and governing themselves, but they also valued imagination, creativity and the arts including music. The indent that was left by Ancient Greece is immeasurable in its vastness and in the number of ways it has influenced how we live today. It can be seen in our society in multiple ways, in the way that our government is organized, and also in the way that our country has been modeled. It can be seen in how we elect officials and the people who lead us, rather than living under a King or Queen.
Our American ideals and priorities have come a long ways, and veered far from what they were, and what they should be. It seems as if everyone in America will do anything to "succeed" in life. In fact, the very definition of "success" that we foster and uphold today is far from what it should be. Appearance is nearly everything today; if you appear successful.you are successful as far as everyone else is concerned. Let me paint you a picture of what success is in America.
White picket fences and piles of credit cards glued together with mortgages and debt are what make up success in my modern day America. Oh wait, I almost forgot the oversized chrome wheels on my brand new Hummer H3. Let me tell you with my badass six miles per gallon engine purring and heated leather seats supporting my 300 pound frame I feel on top of the world. My perfect family is decked out in Hollister clothing and my wife sports a wedding ring worth $35,000. I'll be paying that off for another 20 years, but.it's only fifty dollars a month! What a steal. My child attained the necessary scores on his standardized tests to enter college and maintained a 3. 5 grade point average all throughout high school. My son loved to play the trumpet in grade school and art was his favorite class until the school cut the programs to make ends meet. My son has known he wanted to be a business major since he was 9 years old so he could "bring home the big bucks like Daddy." I couldn't be prouder and best of all we all look good, by that I mean we look better than everyone else. I have "successfully" reached the epitome of "success" as defined by my fellow Americans.
Isn't it sad that these days making money is the focus and the "purpose" of life? Without money Americans find it difficult to attain or feel happiness. This drive to attain large amounts of money and look successful does nothing, but undermine our future. Our children hardly stand a chance. Even when they are at very young ages music and art is being muffled and strangled out of them. In the competition between arts and music, and subjects like math and English the more creative subjects are losing. People are constantly coming up with new ways to teach their young children addition, and subtraction so that they can "provide" their child with a "head start" on first or second grade. This is pathetic, the first grade has already become a pressured and stressed environment. How far can this delusional process go? We can only expect so much from small children, it is not fair to rob them of their childhood. It is wrong to steal away and cancel children's dreams and possibilities before the children have even considered them. The next Michelangelo could be in the process of being smothered by multiplication flash cards right now, while his finger paint set is being thrown in the trash.
American students need to reach high scores in the basic or "important" subjects mainly math, science and English in order to amount to anything culturally, obviously there is a small percentage of people who manage to slip away from this and become successful actors, artists and musicians. These people however are usually already naturally talented at whatever they do and have studied and or worked on their skills outside of an institution or school. I imagine that they also found it difficult to continue on their path with so much social and literal opposition. The opposition of schools not offering classes pertaining to their future, and if the classes were available they were considered "electives" and only help acquire credits necessary to graduate. Also, out of these classes many do not truly challenge the students or value a thorough education of the subject. The title of "elective" doesn't let much of an official tone to such classes, and as such can be discouraging to those who wish to pursue one of these subjects as a future career.
There are numerous studies where the results definitely support keeping music and art courses in public schools. According to one study done in 1990 there is a direct correlation between SAT scores and how many years of art students take. The more years and the more arts that a high school student takes, the higher the SAT scores tend to be. One very interesting study done very recently in Kansas found that the socioeconomic level of the school district and students has no correlation to the effect that a high quality music program has on the scores of students on standardized tests. It is absolutely silly and counter-productive to remove programs that are proven to raise the scores and performance of students.
A common misconception or belief today is that there are "real" classes and those classes so nebulously referred to as "those other" classes. Many people think that you would use and exercise more of your brain in a math or science class than in art or music courses. Actually about ninety percent of your brain's motor control capabilities are devoted to your hands, throat and mouth. Experts have concluded that through playing a violin the entire brain can be stimulated, putting that culturally accepted myth to rest.
Music and art are not simply hobbies, or the careers of a select few. They are universal languages; they are able to bridge language barriers, political boundaries, and cultural differences in general. Music and art are very special things that all humans can appreciate even if they are deaf or blind. Such individuals can still appreciate and be affected by the movements and ideas that are so commonly transferred by music and art. In some cases art and music even play the role of the catalyst, the small spark that ignites a reaction. This is becoming truer with the advancements made in the field of technology. Information sharing is reaching ever greater heights through use of the internet and cellular phones. Truly things that unite us all as humans should not be placed in such a trivial last place on America's priority list.
Cutting music and art programs is a simply ridiculous and destructive idea. Studies have shown that students who play a stringed instrument or take art classes do better in other subjects and perform much better in standardized tests. If music and art classes are cut from public schools there will be many, many children who do worse in school. This includes doing worse on the ever important standardized tests, what will happen? Make the tests easier? All this does is lower expectations, and demand less of our children.
Removing these vitally important art and music programs will create a generation that is extremely ill prepared to take hold and secure the future of this country. If we continue down this road we will spread stagnation like wildfire, hindering our ability to truly succeed as a culture, and as a country. By removing arts and music education we are sealing our own fate as a country.
