Barnhart 1
Morgan Barnhart
April 29, 2009
Extended Argument
Michele Beier
Reasons for Allowing Underage Persons to Drink
At the age of eighteen you are considered a legal adult; meaning you can vote for political leaders, buy tobacco products, enlist into the military, make decisions on your own without first the consent of parents, and you are free to do as you want with your body, such as getting tattoos or piercings. Nowhere in that list does it mention that you can drink alcohol. This seems quite unreasonable because turning eighteen for many teenagers defines freedom from their parents, becoming responsible and dependent on themselves, and making their own decisions about their lives. In this paper I will demonstrate why I believe it is in the United States' best interest to lower the drinking age to eighteen.
Turning eighteen brings with it many responsibilities. Turning eighteen means you can now purchase your own car; purchase an apartment, house, condo, or anything of the like; purchase and pay for your own credit card; and decide the country's future leaders. Responsibility is one thing that many people think teenagers lack. To counter that, I know many teenagers with a credit score better than most grown adults and they pay for everything with their own money, not their parents. If we are trusted to decide the country's leaders and are pushed and urged to vote in presidential elections, then why can we not drink. If we are "responsible"
Barnhart 2
enough to be trusted to make the decision for our country, why can we not make decisions in our own lives to drink alcohol? We can make the decision to smoke tobacco, which is way more harmful to your body than alcohol will ever be. We can purchase our own places of residence. Is that not responsible? Living on your own, when you are eighteen, and affording it is not responsible? I beg to differ. Being responsible means being accountable for your actions. I have to admit though; some teenagers are not in any way responsible. But putting the future of the country in their hands is something we want to give them and any teenager. Putting their own life in their hands with the ability to purchase and legally smoke cigarettes is more reasonable. Letting them drink alcohol is not part of being responsible though.
One of the most disturbing facts about the alcohol consumption age is that young men and women are allowed to enlist in the military and risk their lives and shed blood for the nation but are not allowed to consume alcohol. Figure one is a picture of the front lines of the army where we can put eighteen year olds. This is completely unjust because if they are allowed to fight on the front lines for the country and put their life on the line, they should be able to consume alcohol. Soldiers are considered mature and are looked up to to defend our nation, but even at eighteen, when they are allowed to enlist without a parent's signature, but they are still not allowed to drink alcohol. And for what reason? There is no logical defense against that. My boyfriend has been in the military since he was eighteen and he says that shipping out to go fight for this nation without being able to drink alcohol and celebrate his leaving was one of the hardest things for him. Watching all his buddies drink and have fun, he just felt like he was missing out. It just does not seem fair, he goes overseas to give us and let us keep the freedoms we have, but yet, he still does not get to fully enjoy those freedoms. The United States is founded
Barnhart 3
on freedoms; freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of basically everything. Alcohol is legal in the United States, unlike in the 1920's, but the freedom to drink it is limited. Seems like it goes against our country's moral beliefs.
Prohibiting the sale, use, or consumption of any product will not prove to be fully effective. In January 1920, the states ratified the eighteenth amendment, prohibition, which placed a nationwide ban on the manufacture and transportation of liquor. By the mid-twenties congress realized that the amendment had not been as successful as they would have liked. With this observation came improved enforcement. Money for this improved enforcement was increased from $6. 3 million in 1921 to $9. 2 million in 1925 and finally to $13. 4 million in 1930. During this period, bootleg alcohol became popular to make and drink since alcohol was banned, people would come up with other ways to get the "forbidden fruit". It was noted however, that the amount of consumption had decreased in the early stages of prohibition. As this states, you cannot prohibit the sale, use, or consumption of a substance because people will violate this law. People will always do what they are told not to do, it is human instinct. Eighteen year olds, even twenty year olds, will drink. They will get alcohol from anywhere they can. Getting a fake identification card, getting a bum to buy it, getting their friend who is twenty one or older to buy it, there are so many ways around this law it is ridiculous. But the repercussions if you are caught, to put it lightly, suck. You have a court date, a parole officer, community service, and fines. I feel that the penalties are not even great enough to make an underage drinker never to do it again; they just make you paranoid about drinking at parties.
Barnhart 4
More and more, underage drinking is becoming accessible to minors in more settings. Especially in college, where kids are away from their parents, most likely, for the first time and now have a sense of responsibility and, best of all, freedom. With this new found freedom kids are getting completely inebriated and making risky decisions they generally would not make while sober. 1,700 college students aged eighteen to twenty four have died from alcohol related deaths each year, 599,000 college students get unintentionally injured while intoxicated a year. When a person has drank too much alcohol their body will shut down involuntary actions like breathing and vomiting which leads to alcohol poisoning. Seizures are also an after-effect of alcohol poisoning. Alcohol poisoning is one of the leading causes of death in underage drinkers. Figure two represents what can happen when a person gets alcohol poisoning. I personally have a friend who this occurred to and had to be hospitalized because of a seizure from alcohol poisoning. Thankfully, she is alright and well and had very little negative effects on her life. Many people are afraid to call emergency services when someone is in danger because they do not want to get in trouble with the law. In order to avoid this, they try to give the person in need the proper attention and care which may end up fatal. If they would have just called emergency services they could have kept the person alive but for the fact that they are drinking illegally, they do not want to get in trouble. This is one reason why the drinking age should be lowered. It would save more lives because people would not be ashamed or scared to call for help.
Flavored alcoholic beverages are aimed at today's youth internationally by marketing and advertising. Figure three shows what a wine cooler looks like. Even though underage drinking is not allowed in the United States, in many other countries it is. By creating these new beverages that are flavored to the likes of the youth, the alcohol companies may not realize it, or
Barnhart 5
it could possibly be intentional, that the flavors are aimed at the youth, pressuring them into trying them. These flavored alcoholic beverages are designed to make the transition from soft drinks to alcohol easier for young people. The flavored alcoholic beverages mask the taste of the alcohol and have relatively low alcohol content but still enough so that it has an effect on an inexperienced, or even first time, drinker. In 1991, the United States Department of Health and Human Services conducted a survey on underage drinkers to see how young they started drinking. Conducted on 956 seventh through twelfth graders, the findings were unreal. It found that junior and senior high school students drank thirty five percent of all wine coolers sold in the United States. It also found that wine coolers were the favorite alcoholic beverage among forty two percent of students that drink. The studies were conducted in other countries as well and the findings were just as bad, if not worse.
Driving intoxicated is unsafe, and very costly in Arizona, because the possibility of killing or injuring another human being is extremely likely. Your reaction time and motor coordination is slowed by alcohol. When drinking was legal at age eighteen in certain states, many people did not think twice about driving drunk. My mother was of legal age to drink during this time period and continuously tells me stories about how her and her friends would drink at bars and then drive home. If a police man pulled them over, there were no consequences, he would just tell them to make it home safely and have a good night. The society has changed drastically since then. Many people may argue that teenagers are still maturing at 18 and they're bodies are not capable to handle alcohol. In fact, the National Institute of Health states that the brain is not fully developed until you are twenty five. So either way, twenty one or eighteen, your body is still maturing and the damage done is the same.
Barnhart 6
Another very common argument is that lowering the drinking age will mean higher alcohol related automobile fatalities. When this was measured, the vehicles were not put together very well and were not sturdy in any way. Now-a-days, the vehicles are as safe as can be and are sturdier and better built than even twenty years ago. Figure four shows how many airbags are put into new cars. Thanks to the invention of airbags in every possible part of new cars, injuries are still possible but are way less common than when the legal drinking age was eighteen. Legal actions for driving while intoxicated have been revised in the past twenty to thirty years to really crack down on drunken drivers.
Purchasing tobacco is now legal when you turn eighteen. Tobacco is the number one leading cause of preventable death killing 438,000 people a year. 23.9% of eighteen to twenty four year olds smoke cigarettes, which is the highest of all age groups. Although eighteen to twenty one year olds can make the decision to smoke cigarettes and take years off their life, they are still unable to make the decision to consume alcohol. So, we can let them smoke tobacco which is horrible for the environment and other people, and even worse for a human body, but we cannot let them make the choice to drink alcohol. Being an adult means that you can make your own decisions and do what you think is right and make decisions that affect your life. In my opinion, choosing to drink alcohol is not as bad as smoking tobacco.
I am not saying to just completely let eighteen year olds go out and drink at bars; I mean to say that making them go through alcohol classes and receiving some kind of award for their commitment to be a safe drinker is more reasonable. Implementing a system for each age, eighteen through twenty one, which will let them have more freedoms of drinking. Since sixteen
Barnhart 7
is the legal age to drive, having two years' experience of driving before turning eighteen will be beneficial. Becoming eighteen will mean that they will have gone through the alcohol classes and will then have a breathalyzer put into their car as a deterrent to drunken driving. Turning twenty one will mean that one; the breathalyzer is taken out of their car, and two; they are free to make the decision on whether to drink and drive or have a safe sober ride home. This seems more feasible than to just say no drinking until you are twenty one. I am friends with many twenty one year olds and they are all just as "immature" as eighteen year olds. Sure, they may be farther in college, or have a well paying job, but they drink and drive more than anyone and that is by far one of the most dangerous things a person could do.
Barnhart 8
Figure 1:
Figure 2:
Figure 3:
Figure 4:
Barnhart 9
