The Influence of Race, Class, and Gender
1
The Influence of Race, Class, and Gender on Acquiring a College Education
Stephanie Smead
English 105
Victoria Clark-Sanchez
27 April 2009
The idea of "The American Dream" is still held in today's American society, but how reachable is this goal? Receiving a college education is possibly the first major step to living "The American Dream" and some people have a better chance of doing so than others. Over the decades education policies in the United States have changed significantly in higher education. These changes have been the result of federal budget cuts as well as state decisions that have changed the requirements for financial aid. Both of these factors considerably affect the access to a college education for students from low-income families. Since the creation of affirmative action, it may appear that all people, minorities or poor, have equal access to a post-secondary education as a white rich student. However, over the past few decades this has not been shown to be true. Despite a general belief that anyone can go to college, anyone can get a good, high-paying job, and anyone can live "The American Dream," this is far from true, which affects the truth in the latter. Many studies have been done on this issue over the past decade or so and all of the results show the same thing; blacks and Hispanics as well as students from low-income families are less likely to go to a four-year university than a white, high-income student. Not only does race and class affect one's access to a college education, at times gender does, as well. These factors must be eliminated in order to allow social mobility as well as equal opportunity in the labor market. Allowing all students access to a college education gives each and every child an opportunity for success in their future. There are several types of education policy reforms and these reforms have impacts on both poverty and social issues. Education policies have changed in recent years in an attempt to lessen the influence these factors have on a student's access to college. However, some of the policies established lowered low-income students' access as well as eliminated the chance for financial aid for some. The world's growing mindset about equality is not as prevalent as it would appear to those who are not actually experiencing difficulty accessing a college education. Many inequalities still exist such as those limiting access to education for minorities and students from low-income families.
Part of the reason minorities and low-income students have less access to a college education is the policy reforms. One type of reform is Expenditure Reform. This reform occurs when a government decides to redistribute funds from higher education to lower-level education institutions or increasing the coverage of private schooling in certain low-income areas (Tiongson, 2005). This reform may lower a low-income student's access to college because funds have been taken away from high education institutions, leaving them with less money to give away in forms of student financial aid. Also, increasing private-schooling in low-income areas seems a bit ironic. Giving private-schools in low-income areas more funds would allow them to give more financial aid to students in need; however it is unlikely that a majority of the low-income students in the area would attend the private school. Another form of education policy reform is Financing Reform. This reform includes a government introducing, and in some cases, eliminating user fees for education. There is also a system within Financing Reform in which funds are aimed directly at those who demand education rather than the educators. These reforms appear to be helpful because they impact the distribution of education and very soon after they are implemented enrollment in education increases greatly. However, Expenditure and Financing Reforms target basic education and do not benefit the poor consistently. Basic education reforms are what you may call "pro-poor" because they lead to more education for poor families. However, these reforms do not assist low-income students because they are not helping them receive access to a higher education (Tiongson, 2005). Some of the reforms are beneficial to the poor because they may eliminate user fees for schools, give low-income students more access to higher quality schools and improve the quality of their education; however they are not helping these students beyond basic education (Tiongson, 2005). Finally, these reforms are more unsuccessful than they are successful because they result in loss of resources and quality teachers due to the elimination of user fees and education may still be too expensive for some families to afford even after the reforms have been implemented (Tiongson, 2005).
The 1960s through the 1970s showed promising outlooks for the American people to receive a college education. Financial aid and the ability to choose which college you wanted to attend skyrocketed in these years and then after the 70s colleges became much less accessible (Orfield, 1990). In the 1980s financial aid packages were cut, there were cutbacks concerning civil rights within schools and the government would not assist with funding for schools because they claimed that the students and schools themselves were "asking too much of government" (Orfield, 1990). Ever since this period increasing access to college education has been a struggle as tuition costs are always on the rise and financial aid was just not growing nearly fast enough to keep up. From 1980 to 1989 the cost of tuition at a public university increased over thirty percent and the cost of tuition at a private university rose almost fifty six percent while total aid given from 80-89 only went up ten and a half percent (Orfield, 1990). Also, the necessity of a college education has grown a large amount. It is now expected that every student who graduates high school will go on to receive a college education in order to receive a sufficient income. The need for higher degrees is also increasing; one may need at least a Master's Degree to get an adequate job once they enter the work force. Not only is it difficult to receive ample financial aid for college but at times it is difficult just to be admitted to a good school.
Possibly the three most prestigious universities in the country, Harvard, Yale, and Princeton have very high standards for what students they admit to their institutions. Not only do you have to have great test scores and perfect grades but you have to come from a well-to-do family. The standards of these fine institutions reflect the separation of classes in society, rather than attempt to change them by allowing deserving, yet lower-income, students into their schools (Swartz, 2008). Although HYP are great universities and would therefore require high tuition to afford great professors and resources, there should still be a level of fairness when it comes to who is allowed to attend these schools. Parents of high income families express the importance of education to their children from the time they begin school and make it a priority for their children to continue their education after high school. It is clear that these families have more opportunities when it comes to higher education simply because of money and this is reflected in the student population at schools like Harvard, Yale, and Princeton. Although HYP has expanded its diversity concerning gender and race it has not done much to diversify on a socioeconomic level, "the Big Three are no more open today to the lower socioeconomic reaches of society, than they were during the 1950s" (Swartz, 2008). The diversity of race, class and gender in the college population is a constant discussion since it seems there will never be equality.
Race has always been, and most likely always will be an issue in the United States. Things have certainly changed from the way they were in the early twentieth century and earlier when blacks were not allowed to use the same restrooms or drinking fountains as whites, but discrimination and segregation still exist today. Blacks also had separate schools from whites, but in 1954 it seemed that education would be equal for everyone when the Brown v. Board court decision banned segregation in schools. Students of every race can be found in most schools now. However, when it comes to college, blacks and Hispanics are still less likely to go to and graduate from a four-year university. The 2005 Census showed that "thirty percent of white adults had at least a bachelor's degree in 2005, while 17 percent of black adults and 12 percent of Hispanics had degrees" (U.S. Report: Racial disparities continue, 2006). Even when black men enroll in college only 35 percent of them graduate within six years whereas 59 percent of white males and 45 percent of black women who enrolled at the same time will graduate (Alexander, 2004). But why are minorities less likely to attend college? An article from The Associated Press discusses the issue of homeownership in relation to attaining a higher education. The article states that owning a home allows the homeowner to generate wealth and equity that could be used to finance a college education which would allow the college graduate to buy their own home and send their kids to college and so on. Also, buying a home allows the buyer and his or her family to live in a home in a good neighborhood with good schools (U.S. Report: Racial disparities continue, 2006). With the ability to acquire wealth through homeownership, blacks and Hispanics have higher chances of sending their children, or themselves, to college. However, whites are still more likely to own a home than blacks and Hispanics with about 75 percent of white households "owning their homes in 2005, compared with 46 percent of black households and 48 percent of Latino households" (U.S. Report: Racial disparities continue, 2006). Blacks and Hispanics have higher rates of living in poverty as well as significantly lower incomes than whites.
Among the inequalities present in the education system, immigrant minorities are also less likely to gain a college education. Immigrant families are more likely to be living in poverty and the children in these families attend poor, unsafe, inner-city schools. New York City, New York has the highest amount of immigrants than any other city in America. Many factors affect whether or not a student of an immigrant family will fail or succeed in school. For example, how often they're late to school, if they cut school often, if they have received a D or F on a report card as well as family influences. How often a child eats dinner with their parents a week and how many times parents help their student with homework a week highly influences the way the child will do in school. Living in poor neighborhoods and attending public schools increases a student's risk for academic failure, making it more difficult for most immigrant students to succeed in school and attend college. Minorities and immigrants have a higher rate of living in poverty as well as lower average family incomes which all affect their chances at attending college. Overall, minorities are less likely to succeed in school and continue their education after high school "risk for academic failure, and the results indicate that without considering any contextual factors,
Source; U.S. Report: Racial Disparities continue
adolescents of families originating from the Caribbean, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, and South America, as well as native-born Black and Hispanic adolescents, all had a significantly higher risk compared to native-born White adolescents" (Han, W.J., 2008).
The levels of poverty, race as well as socioeconomic status influence the chances a student has at acquiring a college education. Along with race, other factors that lower a person's likelihood of continuing their education after high school, class plays a large role. With financial aid and school loans as well as government grants available to assist students in paying for school, attending college seems possible for everyone who wants to go. However, financial aid requirements have changed in the past along with constantly rising tuition costs. Financial aid has changed in recent years and now is given out mostly based on merit, rather than need. This means that a person from a low-income family, even though they need financial aid to attend college, may not receive it because they do not have as high of grades or test scores as a person from a middle or upper-class family. These changes further decrease a lower or working class student's chances at obtaining a college degree, "low-income people and other disadvantaged groups have faced decreasing access to opportunities for post-secondary education" (Zhan, M., Schreiner, M., 2005). Students from low-income families are more likely to attend two-year community colleges than four-year universities where as high-income students almost always attend four-year universities and 25 to 38 percent of the time attend private four-year institutions (Haveman, R., Smeeding, T., 2006). Although community colleges are a great way for low-income students to further their education after high school it can be seen as a divider between classes, "the community college [contributes] to minority students limited access to higher education" (Henriksen, J.).
Source; The Role of Higher Education in Social Mobility
Class and income have great influence on acquiring a college education. Sometimes children of poor families are required to work through high school to help support their family and many times they must work full-time after graduating high school rather than continuing their education. Not only is social class an issue concerning education in the United States, it is present in many European countries such as Spain, Portugal and Italy. Even in these countries, and the European Union "social class has a significant influence on the continuity of young people in the education system" (Calcero, Jorge, 2008). However, in European countries, particularly Spain, there is another factor that has an effect on furthering ones education after high school; gender. In Spain, men have a higher risk for failure and dropping out of secondary school whereas women have much higher rates for college attendance and reception of college degrees. For the United States, there are some suggestions for policy change that would reduce the influence of class and income on college attendance. First, by emphasizing college level coursework in secondary school as well as showing a link between high school and college from the very beginning of a student's education it would level the playing field for all students (Haveman, R., 2006). Also, by limiting financial support by the federal government for private school students it would allow more students in need the opportunity to attend college with financial support (Haveman, R., 2006).
Of all the things that should be equal not only in the United States, but across the globe, education is the most important. Allowing every person the opportunity to receive a college degree regardless of their race, nationality or socioeconomic class gives every person a chance for success. Allowing every person this opportunity embodies the idea of equality and their right to the pursuit of happiness. Although today's world is still full of inequalities that limit blacks and Hispanics, as well as immigrants, access to a college education and gives the rich more while the poor continue to struggle, there are changes that can be embedded in the education system to allow any person who desires it, a college education. Education reform policies have been put into action in the past without much success but they have given us knowledge on how we can improve education policy in the future. Giving every student the same information and access to education will create many opportunities for success and wealth. The world of absolute equality in education will not be seen for many years but there is hope for these changes to come.
