Taking Away Reality 1
Running head: TAKING AWAY REALITY
The Persistence of Reality Manipulated by Technology
Genevieve Clayton
April 30, 2009
Northern Arizona University
Henri Cartier-Bresson (1952) said that 'our task [as photographers] is to perceive reality. We must neither try to manipulate reality.nor must we manipulate the results in a darkroom. These tricks are patently discernable to those who have eyes to see' (Reaume, 1995). Photography was made as a new form of art that made it possible to capture reality through a lens, keeping a moment in time static forever. Different art style such as painting and drawing were always subjected to the artists' thoughts and unique hands and eyes, so reality could be portrayed but never correctly. When photography was invented, however, there was a new certainty in the art that viewers would eventually take for granted. It is as if the ability of man to 'improve' his material being must inevitably lead to the destruction of his awareness to fundamental truth (Ovenden, 1972). Through the development of new programs such Adobe Photoshop, technology has removed photography from its purest form of simplicity, altered the perceptions of observers and artists alike, and hindered the use of traditional creative techniques used in photography.
The CEO of Adobe Systems, Shantanu Narayen (2005) said that "with unparalleled integration between milestone releases of After Effects, Adobe Premiere Pro, and Photoshop CS2, Adobe Production Studio saves users time so they can focus on their creative challenges." With that said Photoshop, to some people, is a technology that takes away from the focus of what photography is meant to represent. Although photography is a creative art, there are indiscernible limitations placed on it to maintain the true nature of simplicity through natural creativity from the eye. Released to the public in 1990 by brothers Thomas and John Knoll, Image Pro, later changed to "Photoshop" would become out of favor with contemporary digital photographers because of the abundance of unnecessary manipulation techniques offered.
Photographer Edward Weston (1995) believed that photography is meant to "indicate a fully integrated understanding of the aesthetic problem before exposure." Many people take this statement as the fact that a true photographer, as an artist, should mentally have the aesthetics, such as composition, lighting, and form, pre-planned out or at least recognized prior to taking a picture. It would be unfair to take a picture that it not aesthetically up to par, and then manipulate it to a liking of his or her own. Because of manipulation techniques like this being possible, there is difficulty when viewing a photograph and being able to appreciate it to its fullest extent. It is no longer a pure form; the true image being captured does not imitate what was real and therefore fake. When looking at photography as creative art, having fake qualities diminishes the value that once was. There are ways to manipulate an image with the camera itself, such as "unusual angles, dramatic lighting, and idiosyncratic cropping" (Savedoff, 2000). These ways of altering keep an image a true representation, but seen in a different way from the beginning. Extreme altercations between the truth and fake cannot be justified in this way, and Photoshop is to blame.
Diverse circumstances can change the way we see the world around us, making the familiar strange to our sight (Savedoff, 2000). When Photoshop brings aspects such as the ability to change someone's eye color, completely removing an object from the frame, or adding something that never was what do people end up believing? The fake image, not what truly was there to begin with? Without an explanation, people will believe anything presented to them. Commonly said, a picture is worth a thousand words, but if those words are lies, then there need be an explanation. Photography, in its raw form, is meant to represent what is and what isn't. Having to guess what really is from isn't, having to explain a photo rather than letting it explain itself, takes away from the viewing pleasure. When looking at a photograph, one does not have the chance to conjure up their own opinion and enjoy the aesthetics when they are distracted by manipulations that are unnecessary. Manipulations take away from the viewing pleasure of photography, which is meant to be viewed at ease. There is no success in a photograph when it has to be questioned on the formality and familiarity it is usually meant to represent, questioned due to someone taking advantage of digital manipulation.
Figure 1. Adopted from blogshop.com
In figure 1, it can be seen that Photoshop altered the image of a young natural looking woman, into what society likes to see. Media is a main culprit in the use of extreme altering in advertising, and for that society is to blame. Many people want to see the best image possible, even if it is removed from the truth. The media leads people to believe what is seen, a lie. Through the use of Photoshop, mainstream media has major effects on society. It is a doubled edge sword in a way. For example, fashion in society wants to see an exaggerated beauty that is nonexistent in reality so media caters to their liking. In return, society strives to be unnatural like the images they crave, and in the end blame the media for the pressures of look beautiful, and cannot succeed. The media uses Photoshop to change images from pure and natural to fake and unnatural. Society uses the media's examples to remove themselves from pure and natural and place beauty on a pedestal that is, in essence, nonexistent in reality. The quality and beauty technologies can give to an image could be one main reason young women feel pressured into looking like the Photoshopped images of beauty. It is hard to accept reality when the reality one wants is made up in the first place.
Figure 2. Adapted from photo8.com Through history, people such as Anzel Adams have documented events and realities that some find hard to see. It is hard for sheltered people to see the reality of war, poverty, disease, famine, and tragedies. One example is called "The Falling Man". On September 11th, 2001, two planes had hit the World Trade Center and the towers had started to collapse with people still inside.
Loved ones were forced to make a decision between waiting to lose their lives to a building or to take their own lives, by jumping out of windows. One photo, figure 2, was taken by an anonymous photographer and was seen on news papers later that week. It was very controversial and the photo was removed from official sites and publishers were forced to apologize for essentially taking away the dignity of the falling man, and becoming personally involved with a personal choice of a victim. Others argued that it is necessary to show the humanity and reality of what was going on inside those buildings while others watched safely from a television room at their home. There is not, never will be, and should not ever be a sugar coating on something that is, to some, too harsh to handle. Some will say, all or nothing. In photography there are ethical issues at hand, like that of the falling man, but the fact is that it is fact, to take it in or not is a personal and ethical choice of those viewing.
Although a photograph is no less an interpretation of the physical than a painting or a sculpture, its uncanny precision, recording all within its compass with equal fidelity, reveals that which the eye neglects (Ovenden, 1972). The ability which photography gives society is a special one, one that is an exact reflection of one single moment in time, untouched by anything but light. Taking advantage of that ability has taken away the true ability of the simplest tool, the eye which promotes the precision and records that one moment in time. The perception that photography presents to its viewers is that of one person noticing something that everyone is capable of noticing as well. It is available to everyone, but what makes photography special is that it can show so much more than a fleeting moment. It shows all possible aspects of a fleeting moment, however complex or simple they may be. Taking the time to take everything into account is why freezing time is such an amazing thing possible with photography. The realizations that photography can present to a viewer was already there, but not recognized until it is paused in time. The complicated effects that Photoshop can bring to an image are not recognized, because they were never there, they are not part of time. They are not part of real photography, and are not real talent.
The alignment of an eye with a lens, which is aligned with a fleeting moment, all at once creates a rush with the click of the shutter. The actuality of thinking, "wow that was it, that was the one" is something to be proud of, personally. Now, in contrast, not being able to be proud of a raw photo, but being able to say "wow, this is crap, but I can always change it in Photoshop", takes away from the true talent developed by many photographers. Learning about the history of photography, one would find amazing photographs by photographers such as Edward Weston, Henry Cartier-Bresson, Annie Liebovitz, and Richard Avedon. All of these people are known for their talent, they did not have Photoshop available to them, yet people are still learning about their incredible photography. True talent is the ability to "take a picture, not make a picture", says Richard Avedon. Evoking emotion in a subject, capturing what is real, and making it look staggering because of one's talent to do so, is what makes a good photographer. Photoshop is abolishing the untainted talent that is developed through time, or was already in existence. Manipulation can be done by the hand, camera, lights, and numerous other cohorts, but when a mouse can do all the same, how can it be considered talent? One cannot build on or grow off technology that is better than their own organic and genuine, their personal, valid technology sincerity to an art.
Some will argue against these points, that Photoshop is a new, improved way to build upon what is, to fabricate a new way to view photography. Creative techniques such as moderating contrast and brightness, as well as manipulating a malfunction of the camera itself, such as weird color changes in an exposure as seen in figure 3, can be improved to a point of balanced aesthetics.
Figure 3. By Genevieve Clayton
A good picture can be made into a great picture with the use of simple modifications. Carly Strauss (2009), a photography student at Northern Arizona University says that "being able to change and enhance original photographs is becoming an asset to all photographers. Changing the color contrast, editing out red eye, or lightening or darkening a photo shouldn't take away that photo's right to be considered a great photograph. A great photograph is still a great photograph, despite touchup's and minor corrections." With this said, change is inevitable, and with change comes improvements. Some would say that film is limited and cannot grow, however photography Professor at Northern Arizona University, Jerry Foreman (2009) says "there are disadvantages to digital as well as every other type but each has it's own advantage too." So should the ability to manipulate in necessary cases be an advantage or a disadvantage? Lack of time is a main point in the argument for Photoshop, "what I miss I can make up for in Photoshop" is one mentality. Some would argue that if the editing is limitless, the photographer, in return, cannot grow as an artist.
In ending, Photoshop has had many effects on photography, in many different aspects of the art. Within photography, a clear representation of the world continues to be eroded by artists moving away from the photographic (Reaume, 1995). Through the development of new programs such Adobe Photoshop, technology has removed photography from its purest form of simplicity, altered the perceptions of observers and artists alike, and hindered the use of traditional creative techniques used in photography. The ambiguity of the depiction of an image matches the uncertainty about the status of an image (Savedoff, 2002). This so called post-photography age, is happening before everyone's eyes and creating somewhat of a chaotic jumble of what is a blur between true photographic art and digital fallacies of what photography is meant to be. Ask now, before "post" becomes reality removed, is Photoshop and other digital manipulation technologies taking over the quintessential photographic art of yesterday and today? Will tomorrow be a confirmation that technologies are becoming more capable of "talent" than the human eye and hand?
