Stephanie Hansen
Belknap
Extended Argument
April, 15 2009
Designer Babies
Designer babies 2
The ability to create children is unethical. People should not be able to choose if a child should have a certain color eyes or hair. Designer babies is this exact thing, babies are being created to be without disease and to "save" their older sibling. Parents should not have the choice to decide what the child should look like or if they are meant to save their older sibling.
Background
Genetic testing is taking a persons genes and examining the genetic information that is in the persons cell (Hunt, 2005). The genetic information can then be checked for certain diseases and mutations in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence of a certain person's genes. A genetic mutation is when a segment of the DNA is taken out and the pyrimidines and purines no longer fit together. In order for researchers to figure out if a child has a genetic disorder or mutation, a full view of their DNA is needed in several small pieces. The discovery of DNA as a sequence of a persons genes occurred in 1871 (Miller, 1996). In 1943 the double helix shape of DNA was discovered by Watson and Crick. A double helix shape of DNA is a coiled structure of DNA that is held together by Hydrogen bonds as seen in figure 1. DNA sequence is a full view of the pairs the pyrimidines and purines in a genetic code (Nucleotide, 2007). Pyrimidines consist of cytosine (C) and thymine (T) and purines consist of guanine (G) and adenine (A) in a DNA sequence. These phosphate groups bind pyrimidines with purines together to form a DNA double helix shape, as seen in figure 1 (Nucleotide, 2007).
Figure 1: The double helix shape of DNA.
Gel electrophoresis is a mechanism that is used to separate DNA by its molecule base, it was developed in 1970 (Miller, 1996; Biology, 2009). The gel electrophoresis test breaks apart the hydrogen bonds and then into small segments of DNA using an electrical current. There is a positive and negative side to the electrophoresis box, since all of the DNA molecules are negative they will move to the positive area. The smaller the fragment of the organism the faster the organism moves down the gel (Biology, 2009). The researcher will then look at the shorter DNA strands and run through the information in the genetic sequence. Genetic testing is usually done to pregnant women over the age of 35 to test for Down syndrome. This is because Down syndrome is more likely to occur in babies whose mothers are older than 35. Down syndrome the disease is when there is an extra chromosome on the 23rd chromosome (Miller, 1996). There are several other prenatal tests that parents can do to get a prediction of their child's risk of contracting a certain disease from birth or the mother (Hunt, 2005). The prenatal test gives a full view of the child's 23 chromosomes. A chromosome contains DNA that is the blue print for every organism in the body. One little mistake in the chromosome can mean that a child can have a disease. Genetic testing especially designer babies may be a great use of science, but designer babies should not be allowed to be done.
Designer Babies
A designer baby is a child that is created by biotechnology to meet the parents expectation (Miller, 1996). Designer babies can have a broad spectrum of different possibilities. A designer baby could mean a saviour sibling, creating a child without their parent's disease, or a child that is created with certain physical features. The saviour sibling is one kind of designer baby, that is created to save the older sibling. Through the use of the umbilical cord or the bone marrow of the saviour sibling the older sibling can be healed of a certain disease (Sheldon, 2004). The creation of a child without their parent's disease is done by taking the parent's DNA and replacing it with chemically altered DNA that does not have the mutated gene that cause the disease. Another form of designer babies and the most controversial types of designer babies is when the child can be created to have certain physical features, including a certain sex.
Saviour Sibling
Several diseases that affect children do not have cures except by receiving new tissue that matches their own. Saviour siblings is where a child can be created to have matching tissue to the sick older sibling. Through preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and human leucocytes antigen(HLA) a tissue type is made that matches the older siblings needs exactly. PGD is used to select embryos carrying mutations that cause severely disabling disorders (Klitzman, 2008). HLA chooses specific embryos for implantation (Sheldon, 2004). Together these things help to create the proper tissue for the saviour sibling. Upon the birth of the saviour sibling parts of the umbilical cord is given to the older sibling and the rest is saved incase it is needed in the future. This way, another saviour child is not needed if the child gets sick again.
This might be helpful, but what if the saviour sibling does not heal the older sibling or the older child dies before the saviour sibling is born. What happens to the saviour sibling? There are endless possibilities of things that can happen to the saviour child, the older sibling, or the parents. The parents could be so upset with the child not being able to save the older sibling that the child is neglected and even possibly abused. No one knows what the parents will do to the child after he or she has been born no matter if the older sibling is saved or not. A parent could even kill the saviour child. They could be good people that just let their emotions take control of them. Also, what about the emotional state of the saviour sibling when they know that they were created to save the older sibling and not for love. The child will have so many problems. Imagine how he/she will feel about the older sibling that is loved for being themselves, where as the saviour sibling is loved for their tissue or blood. Children should never grow up feeling like they are only there to be of service to the older sibling and parents wishes for the older sibling. Parents have no right to play God. A parent should never be able to choose if their child should be created to save another child or not.
A Child without Disease
Besides a designer baby being a saviour sibling, a designer baby can also be incapable of contracting certain genes (Hunt, 2005). Parents who have a certain disease or know that they are a carrier for a certain disease can rest assured that their child will be immune to this disease. Chromosomes from the parents are taken and the genes are separated in to specific lengths. The separate genes are then stained and looked at under a microscope. The genes with specific mutations are removed then the chromosomes that have not been removed are placed into the embryo (Sheldon, 2004). In Nigeria, researchers are trying to give children a chance to be born without malaria (Ajayi, 2008). A parent could even choose the child's sex in order to not contract a specific disease that comes from a sex-linked gene that one of the parents have (The Fertility Institute, 2009). The parents will no longer have to worry about if they are transmitting their disease to their child.
Even though children born without a disease is a wonderful thing, there are always other ways. Researchers are currently working on a cure for certain diseases while the child is still in the womb (Miller, 1996). A child could be cured of a disease before birth, instead of being created without the disease. Parents have another way to save their child from a disease without having to create a child in a laboratory. Creating a child in a laboratory is dangerous. Genes are very delicate and can easily be mutated and damaged. Instead of the child being created without a disease, they could be given extra mutations creating even more problems. Mutation creates a broad range of problems from physical deformities to diseases. To put this in a different point of view, think of the book Frankenstein. Even though this book is fictional, Frankenstein created a monster when he really intended to just make a regular human being. The book portrays it differently then the movie, but something went wrong in the creation and a monster was created. This is a possibility of something that could happen when creating a child. He had every good intention, but things can go wrong. No one is perfect. Do people really want to put the creation of a child in a person who is not perfect? There is so many mistakes that can be made when leaving creation of a very delicate things to researchers. The example of the monster from Frankenstein may be a bit drastic, but something close to that can happen. There are endless possibilities of deformities that can happen.
Looks
A designer baby can also be made to look a certain way. Parents can choose what they want their child to look like. For instance, the mother could want a daughter with blue eyes and brown hair. The mother wanted this so that she could have a girl in the family, because her other children are all boys with blond hair and brown eyes. Also a parent could want a child that looks exactly like them. The options are endless when it comes to what the child could look like.
There is nothing wrong with genetic testing, but creating a child to be "perfect" is unethical. Genetic testing can discover a disease in a child and can be given medicine while still in the womb (Miller, 1996) A child should mean the world to someone not something made in a laboratory.
On a different note, this makes people Hitler's in a way. He wanted everyone to look a certain way and now people are doing that exact thing. Several people think what Hitler did was awful, yet they are pretty much willing to do the exact same thing with their own child. Do we really need everyone to look the same? Everyone is unique in their own way and that is what makes them, who they are. Why should children have to all look the same? Will parents not be able to tell apart their own children?
Court Cases in other Countries about Designer Babies
The United Kingdom (UK) and Wales have already had trials on the concept of designer babies and whether it should be legal. In April of 2003, the UK decided that saviour siblings should be allowed, as long as genetic counseling was done to insure that the parents were doing this for the right reasons (Dyer, 2003). Then in Wales a jury of 16 teenagers ranging from the age 16-19 did a citizens court case about designer babies (Iredale, 2006). The outcome of the trial was the same as the trial in the UK. Twelve out of fourteen people agreed that people should be allowed to create saviour siblings as long as it is not for chivalrous reasons and would be useful to society (Iredale, 2006).
Other countries may have already had court cases, but that does not mean a thing. Both court cases allowed saviour siblings and designer babies to be created as long as it was not for chivalrous reasons. How are people suppose to know if the parents are creating a child for chivalrous reasons or not? People that are really dedicated to certain things can pretend to not wanting to create a child for chivalrous reasons.
Genetic testing in a prenatal stage is okay, but creating a child is unethical. Human beings are playing the role of God. Parents and researchers should not have the right to decide what a child should look like or even their disease. Also, a saviour sibling might be a good invention, but no one knows what will happen to both the saviour child or the child that needs saving. If an outcome happens to not be positive the saviour child could be severely punished for it. The saviour sibling could be neglected, abused, or even worse killed. Parents are made murderers when they may not even mean to, they just let there emotions over take them. Do we want the United States to be full of "gods" and murderers?
