Reid Sanchez
Eng 105
Betsy Jo Divine
4/27/09
The Introduction of Rehabilitation Into the American Penal System
For 21 years, Veronica Compton-Wallace woke up in an eight by twelve foot cell to a vapid white ceiling and four colorless brick walls. Her days were planned for her, she is told when to eat, when to drink, and when to exercise. Veronica's life is just as dire and mundane as all the other 737 inmates at Washington Corrections Center for Women located in Gig Harbor Washington (Washington State Department of Corrections, 2007). She was convicted for attempted murder and was a key component in the Hillside Strangler case in California, a series of killings that Keneth Bianchi and Angelo Buono committed in the 1980's. Veronica was convinced by Bianchi himself to commit a murder. As an inspiring actress and a talented playwright, her time in prison cut Veronica's career short (Wallace, 2002). During her incarceration, Veronica scrutinized the United States penal system. Her unique insight from inside the system inspired her to write a revolutionary book entitled Eating the Ashes: Seeking Rehabilitation Within the US Penal System. Her book argues that the system's lack of rehabilitation is detrimental to our society. For decades now, the role of the American criminal justice system has been to prevent crime as opposed to just punishing crime. With repeat offenders nearly reaching the 70% range, our current system is failing to achieve that objective (U.S. Department of Justice, 2002). In order to uphold the responsibility of our criminal justice system, we must focus on rehabilitating prisoners and reform the systems current objective of punishment.
Criminology, the study of the nature, cause, and prevention of crime, is a relatively new discipline. The criminal justice system in the United States is rooted in early European philosophy and is a result of an immense collaboration of many criminological theories. These theories range from biological and sociological factors regarding crime, as well as how we define crime and choose to respond to it (Ball & Cullin & Lilly, 2006). The earliest theories of criminology suggest that criminal behavior is a rational choice, an act of free will by the offender. Other theories recognize the mitigating factors in the occurrence of the crime. Certain events or experiences drive someone to act out a crime, conveying that no humans have complete free will (Ball & Cullin & Lilly, 2006). This collaboration of theories is responsible for making our criminal justice system how it is today. The underlying goal of all these theories is to find the cause of crime and devise a way to prevent it from happening. Prevention, not punishment, is what our criminal justice system should be focusing on. No matter what the cause of crime is, whether it be sociological, biological, or an act of free will, it is up to our society to create a system that effectively counters, and deters deviant behavior. Prevention of crime is the cornerstone to developing a safe and efficient society.
To understand the mentality behind our current penal system we must look at one word in particular, penitentiary. Penitentiary is derived from the Latin word meaning "remorse" (Jaffree, 2009). In Philadelphia, in the late 1700's, the emergence of a faith-based group called the Quakers reshaped the American prison system. Prior to the Quakers, prisons were dirty, overcrowded, inhumane, and void of any form of rehabilitation. The Quakers viewed the role of incarceration in a new light, and they anticipated that with complete isolation from the outside world, a prisoner would be able to repent their wrongful action and become truly rehabilitated (Costelloe, 2009). This new idea of repentance and rehabilitation quickly spread, and soon the first state penitentiary system in the US was established at the Walnut Street Jail in Philadelphia (Jaffree, 2009). This system caught on across the United States throughout the ending of the 18th century sparking a wave of prison reform. Shortly after the Quakers, the establishment of Auburn Prison in New York introduced an intensive work schedule for its inmates. The "Auburn System" sought after rehabilitation through hard work and solitude (Jaffree, 2009). These two systems were the precursors for the reformation of inmates, unfortunately these waves of innovation did not last long. Soon the prison population became too high to effectively achieve the goals of the Quakers, and repentance and solitude were lost in the evolution of the penal system. As for the Auburn Prison, work detail still exists in most modern day prisons and is the extent of any form of rehabilitation. These two schools of thought established a promising base for rehabilitation but were cut short and proved to be dead ends in the fast paced emergence of Criminology. The Quakers and the Auburn system are the first historical attempts towards rehabilitation in America, and date back to the 18th century, rehabilitation has hardly been revisited in the past two hundred years.
In Eating the Ashes, Veronica Compton-Wallace defines rehabilitation as "emotional healing and cognitive well being," a concept that can be encouraged through any degree of positive or constructive intervention (Wallace, 2002). The rehabilitation process would construct efficient members of society and reintegrate prisoners into the real world in a healthy way, but programs proven to be a scarce and sometimes nonexistent within prisons today. Currently less than ten percent of prisons in the US have a consistent rehabilitation program up and running (Costelloe, 2009). In place of rehabilitation, the US has ordained a system of harsh punishment carried out through isolating prisoners from society. This sounds similar to the Quakers form of rehabilitation but differs in the fact that the prisoners aren't isolated from each other. This is an important aspect of the Quaker's theory, and is completely neglected. Showing that the current prison is focused on removing prisoners from society, but not returning them back into society as reformed individuals. We have created a system based on the relationship between the length of the punishment with the seriousness of the act, while ignoring the fact that this principle has no effect on deterring crime. Studies done at the University of Michigan indicate that due the fluctuation of crime rates and sentencing ordinances, "crime effects policing and punishment as much as the other way around" (Waldfogal, 2007). Since the correlation between a certain crime and the time served for that crime is not rigid and known-to-all, the length and severity of punishment does not deter offenders. This concept, widely recognized by criminologists, deems our current outlook on prevention completely improficient. Punishment is not the goal our criminal justice system should be pursuing.
Critics argue that rehabilitation is a "soft punishment" and is not fair to the victims of the crime. It is important to recognize that the prisoners will still be incarcerated during the rehabilitation classes and still be isolated from the outside world. Introducing productive, positive aspects to a prisoner's life does not change the fact that they are deprived of everyday luxuries that are common in the free world. The fact of the matter is that humans, by in large, respond to psychiatric therapy treatment. Johan Lehrer, a Contributing Editor at "Scientific American Mind" wrote a book on the development of the emotional and rational parts of decision-making called How We Decide. He states that the brain has the ability to be trained, just like a muscle. The book summarizes and interprets many studies of brain activity and translates certain stressful decision-making processes through psychoanalysis and brain functions. Concluding that it is a critical life skill to balance the emotional response with the logical and analytic part of the brain, and with professional help it is very possible for humans to achieve this balance (Lehrer, 2009). Considering that crime is in fact a decision making process, whether it be mitigated by complex factors or complete free will, Lehrer's principle can be applied to the criminal mind. Rehabilitating prisoner will not only benefit the safety of society, it will also keep prisoners out of prison. With our current prison population at 28 percent above capacity, it is time to work on decreasing that number (U.S. Department of Justice, 2002).
It costs in between $22,000 and $24,000 a year to hold a prisoner in custody (Adler, 2008). That is quite a large sum of money considering the US has over 7. 2 million prisoners currently incarcerated (U.S. Department of Justice, 2002). And that number is increasing every year. One of the reasons it is increasing is because our penal system has a 67.5% recidivism rate. Meaning over 2/3 of incarcerated prisoners will reenter the prison system within three years of being released (U.S. Department of Justice, 2002). Considering these statistics, it is easy to see that our currents system is not as economically efficient as we would like to think. Let's say that instituting rehabilitation throughout prison in America only decreases the recidivism rate to 50%, a mere 17.5% decrease. Within the next three years there would be 1,130,400 less prisoners than there would be at 67.5% recidivism. At $24,000 per prisoner per year, that is upwards of 27 billion dollars saved, and that's only if recidivism drops a small percentage. The chart bellow shows the percent of recidivism compared to the cost of returning prisoners. If rehabilitation lowers the recidivism rate to the percentages on the left, the cost of returning prisoners within three years will decrease dramatically. Rehabilitation will reduce the rate of recidivism, bringing our prison population back down to a manageable rate.
Figure 1 Percent recidivism compared to cost of returning prisoners Calculations based on data found in Criminal Justice: An Introduction (Adler, 2008)
During a short period of the late 1960's, criminologist's outlook on rehabilitation became extremely askew and crossed the line into the category of cruel and unusual punishment. This leads some skeptics to believe that rehabilitation could be potentially dangerous. The early ideas of crime being a product of evolutionary throwbacks and biological oversights consumed the prison administrations in the late sixties and early seventies. As a result, prisons set into action a series of inhumane procedures that has associated the word rehabilitation with a dispiriting ambiance. Frontal lobotomies and the forced sterilization of inmates in American prisons mirrored the eugenic principle of the Hitler's rule and have left a dark cloud over our criminal justice system (Ball & Cullin & Lilly 2006). As previously stated, the study of criminology is a relatively new discipline. The advancement that criminologist and theorist have made in these past forty years is astounding (Ball & Cullin & Lilly 2006). We can quite safely say that, in the twenty first century, the physical altercation or forced surgical procedure on inmates will fall snuggly under the category of cruel and unusual punishment rather than rehabilitation. It can be assured that frontal lobotomies will never be revisited in the penal system. Within the last four decades the rights of prisoners have drawn attention from the masses and in turn revised to fit more tolerant standards.
On September 9, 1971 a series of events unfolded that lead to a complete reformation of how prisoners should be treated. Within the previous decade, racial tension and prison rights protest were effluent among political hot topics. The poor condition and overcrowding of prisons sparked an outrage inside and outside of state prisons. The predominantly African American prison population questioned the ethical integrity of the prison's bureaucracy. Tension finally boiled over when a prison riot broke out in the Attica State Penitentiary in New York. The event started when three prisoners escaped there cell, and took control of the prison's main nerve cell that controlled all the automated doors to the complex. The riot quickly grew out of control when forty hostages were taken by prisoners outside to the main recreational field. The enraged company of inmates demanded to speak to the governor of New York, Nelson Rockefeller. The mob wanted to negotiate converting the prison to a federal prison, in order to receive better living conditions. Inmates insulted the "racist administration" of the prison and demanded the removal of the current superintendant (American Experience, 2000). At the time of the riots the inmates were allowed one shower a week, one roll of toilet paper a month, and not to mention that the prison was operating 40% above occupancy. The cell was merely inches taller than an inmate standing straight up and also laying down flat. The riot was forcefully contained by a brutal massacre on September 14th. State troopers were ordered to reclaim the facility. Within one hour, 2,200 lethal missiles, 3,000 rounds of gunfire (including shotguns), and tear gas took the live of twenty-nine inmates and ten hostages. State troopers were responsible for all of these deaths, including the hostages (American Experience, 2000). This brutal riot, as well as the law suites that came after, brought prison rights to the public eye for the first time since the existence of the penal system. A wave of political reform instituted basic human rights into the prison system to ensure that nothing inhuman was occurring (Adler, 2008).
One problem that is common among many prisoners is their adjustment to the free world. When in prison, inmates adjust to what is called a "Prison Culture" (Adler, 2008). Whether this process is brought from the outside in by the criminals themselves, or bred within the prison walls, prison life is riddled with violence and paranoia. Prison culture is so different from the outside world that it has even adopted it's own language. Terms like polly annas, white hats, and wishy washys are common to describe the personalities of the prison guards. Prison tattoos and gang markings add to the underground culture of prison. Not to mention the roll of a prisoner, they are told what to and when to do it. Leaving the transition to the real world an even more difficult task. The prison lifestyle is so unique that some prisoners feel the urge to return to prison (Adler, 2008). The presence of a progressive rehabilitation program will give the prisoner the ability to adjust to the free world in a healthy manor. By taking these prisoners out of the culture they have created for themselves and introducing a dynamic lifestyle, the prisoners wean into the free world will become easier. Thus creating a safer environment for the general public as well as the prisoners themselves.
Another negative aspect of prison culture is the conglomerate of violent or criminal mindsets. In 1939, Edwin Sutherland, the most influential criminologist of our time, came up with the theory of Differential Association. This theory is one of the most tested theories to date. Differential Association Theory suggests that crime is a learned behavior. Crime is actively learned by a criminal from someone close to them (Rosenfeld, 2007). When convicts are that closely confined, and have no positive outlet, they tend to share ideas an teach each other their particular skills and criminal techniques. When released from prison, inmates come out knowing more than when they came in. This could be an explanation for the 67.5% recidivism rate. If prisons could focus on channeling these inmates thoughts towards positive progress, and occupy there mind with become a law-abiding citizen, they would be less likely to share ideas between each other.
Our country has battled with overcrowded prisons and high rates of crime for long enough. It is time to create a system that will uphold the goal of our criminal justice system to prevent wrongful action. Rehabilitating the prison population into efficient and productive members of society will greatly better the standard of living in the United States. Rehabilitation is the key to the success of our penal system.
