Harmful Effects Linked to U.S. Military Deployments
Every year many young men and women join the United States Military in hopes of helping this country be a safer place for their families and friends, and aspiring to create a better environment for the future. Once they sign the contract with the branch of military they desire to join, they then become soldiers. As soldiers, they may be ordered to deploy to a different country. The places they may be ordered to deploy can vary in levels of hostility. The current controversies occurring in Iraq and Afghanistan tend to stimulate a more hostile environment than in other locations. The experiences soldiers endure in these hostile areas could cause several emotional stresses, which could lead to psychological problems. Families and significant others of these soldiers can also develop psychological issues brought about from the stresses of their loved ones being deployed to hostile environments. Military deployments may be a necessity to protect our way of living, but the stresses endured by soldiers and their families during deployment can cause various harmful effects that can impair their normal life functions.
The largest problem associated with military deployments is the effects they could have on soldiers, their families and/or significant others psychologically. Some of these psychological problems include having various trust issues, emotional stresses and depression. These psychological issues can also lead to problems such as child abuse, and a detachment in relationships from being away from each other for a long period of time. The most common psychological problem soldiers develop during deployments is Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.
Military Deployment Linked to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
A major psychological problem commonly developed by soldiers during deployment is Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can occur following experiencing or witnessing a terrifying event or ordeal in which grave physical harm occurred or was threatened. People who suffer from PTSD often relive their experiences through nightmares and flashbacks, and feel detached or estranged. These individuals can also have difficulty sleeping and concentrating, often feel irritable, are constantly on guard, and may be easily startled. The effects of PTSD can be severe and last long enough to impair an individual's daily life. (http://www.medterms.com/) The events experienced during military deployments can cause many soldiers to develop Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. The length of deployment and multiple deployments can also increase the chances of a soldier developing PTSD. According to an article on PTSD and the military, soldiers exposed to military combat have a high chance in developing PTSD because of the horrible and life-threatening events they experience day in and day out. These soldiers may have witnessed friends and other people get shot or killed, and may have had to shoot or kill someone themselves. (http://militaryspot.com/) According to an article on soldiers suffering from PTSD, one in eight returning soldiers suffers from PTSD. Studies show about twelve percent of soldiers deployed to Iraq develop PTSD, and about six percent of soldiers deployed to Afghanistan develop PTSD. (http://www.msnbc.msn.com/) Posttraumatic Stress Disorder is a major problem associated with military deployments. These soldiers who suffer from PTSD or other psychological problems could develop severe mental health issues, which could eventually lead to suicide.
Military Deployments Linked to Suicides
Suicides are also a serious psychological effect linked to military deployments. Typically, suicides have mostly been reported during or after a long deployment, or resulted from multiple deployments to a hostile place, such as Iraq and Afghanistan. According to an article on suicide rates in the U.S. Army, many of the soldiers who commit suicide suffer from some form of posttraumatic stress disorder. Most suicides occur after the soldier has come home and many of these individuals suffer from repeated flashbacks of combat experiences and other severe reactions, which could be what leads to their suicide. (http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/suicide) Soldiers experience several different and similar events from each other during deployment, depending on where they go. Some locations soldiers are deployed to are more hostile than others. Cristain Laguillo, my boyfriend and former Army National Guard soldier, believes soldiers who are deployed to more hostile areas may experience worse events than others. Some of these soldiers see death day in and day out, and even had to kill someone themselves. These are the kind of flashbacks that could cause serious psychological issues, which could inevitably lead to a soldier's suicide. (Laguillo) According to the article on military suicide rates, the number of Army suicides significantly increased in 2008 compared to previous years. There were 128 confirmed suicides in 2008, which is the highest number ever recorded since the government started tracking suicides about thirty years ago. (http://articles.latimes.com/) Although, soldiers are the individuals who deploy, the effects of their absence during deployment could cause their spouse to develop psychological issues, which could lead to their suicide as well.
Spouses of enlisted soldiers on deployment, also develop psychological issues due to the absence of their husband or wife, which could lead them to attempt or commit suicide. According to the article on the potential effects of spousal military deployment, men whose wives deploy, rarely suffer from extreme depression that would cause them to try to commit suicide; however, many women whose husbands deploy, develop severe depression, which could lead them to suicide. Another reason military spouses would attempt to commit suicide is due to post partum depression. (http://www.selfgrowth.com/) Post partum depression is severe depression after delivering a baby and happens to many women, even women whose husbands are with them throughout their entire pregnancy. Spouses of military soldiers are more prone to develop post partum depression because their husbands may deploy during or after pregnancy, which leaves them to go through most or all of their entire pregnancy alone. The absence of their husband after birth could spike their depression level even higher and cause them to try to commit suicide. (http://www.selfgrowth.com/) Suicide is the most damaging effect regarding military deployments, however, an increase in child abuse has also been linked to military deployments.
Military Deployments Linked to Child Abuse
Child abuse is another serious issue that has proved to be an effect of military deployments. According to an article on military deployment stress tied to child abuse, "Children of U.S. Army soldiers face increased risk of maltreatment while a parent is deployed away from home." (http://pn.psychiatryonline.org/) A study on child maltreatment conducted in September 2001 until December 2004, proved child abuse in families of soldiers were forty two percent higher while military spouses were deployed than when they were home. The study on child abuse included physical abuse, emotional abuse, and neglect. During the study, they found that female civilian parents composed the majority of child abusers. Male civilian parents only made up a small fraction of child abusers. (http://pn.psychiatryonline.org/) This could be due to men and women may experience and cope with the stress of their spouses' deployment differently. The study also showed that male soldiers back from deployment were larger offenders of child abuse than female soldiers back from deployment. (See diagram below for statistics on child abuse in regards to military deployments.) Kerina Ward, an enlisted Army soldier, believes the reason male soldiers are bigger offenders of child abuse is because men are involved more in combat than women, which means they are exposed to violence more often than women. Combat specialties such as Infantry and Special Forces are men only jobs, and dangerous jobs in the military. These men are exposed to violence regularly, which could cause them to become violent themselves. (Ward) Child abuse is a serious issue related to military deployments, however, the stresses of separation during deployments can also lead to relationship problems between soldiers and their spouses.
Military Deployments Linked to Trust Issues in Relationships
Soldiers, their families, and/or significant others, can also develop general psychological problems brought about from the stresses of separation during deployment. Deployments can cause many stresses on the soldier gone and his or her loved ones. These stresses can make an individual develop trust issues, which in turn causes relationship problems. Cristian was deployed to Afghanistan a year after we had started dating. We were happy before he left, however, while he was in Afghanistan, we both started developing trust issues with each other. We accused each other of certain actions put in our heads from witnessing several other military relationships fail. Many soldiers and their spouses or significant others cheat on each other while the soldier is gone on deployment. The reality of knowing this can cause a person a great amount of stress and depression. Witnessing how often these relationships around us were failing caused us both to develop trust issues of our own. According to Cristian, only he and one other buddy in his Army unit still had girlfriends at the end of their deployment. He had witnessed at least twenty other relationships, and even a couple of marriages end by the time his unit came back home. He believes that more than half of these relationships ended because of trust issues. (Laguillo) Military deployments can have damaging effects on relationships while soldiers are away, however, the time lost during deployment can lead to much worse than just trust issues.
Post Deployment Issues From Time Lost
When a soldier comes home from deployment, he or she might come home to find their lives are going to be completely different than they were before deployment. With all the time lost while they were deployed, many changes associated with their normal life can occur. Many soldiers come home to find they no longer have the wife, husband, girlfriend, or boyfriend they had before. Some soldiers already know from phone calls or letters during their deployment that their spouse or significant other has left them, but the reality of this does not become real until they come back to an empty home. Mike Facemier, an enlisted Army soldier, called his wife often while deployed until one day she told him she did not want him calling anymore, and that she wanted a divorce. (Laguillo). Then there are other soldiers who think they are coming home to their loving spouse or significant other, but when they get home they find out otherwise. Many spouses and significant others wait until the their soldier comes home to tell them they are leaving them. I believe they do not want to tell their soldier spouse or significant other during deployment because they are not sure how they would react to the news, and are afraid they might do something foolish. John Mariana, an enlisted Army soldier, came home from a deployment in Iraq to find his wife he had been with for eight years is leaving him for another man. This was very hard for him to deal with. (Mariana) For a soldier to come home knowing they will be alone, or to come home to find out they are going to be alone could be a tough adjustment for them, however, losing a loved one may not be the only thing lost because of their time away on deployment. They could also come home to find out they no longer have a job.
With all the time lost from deployment, soldiers could come home to find they no longer have the job they had before they deployed. Some soldiers have a job before deployment and come home to find out the company they worked for went out of business, which leaves them jobless. This happened to a couple of Cristian's friends when they came back from deployment in February 2008. (Laguillo) A soldier can also come back to the same place they worked before, but the position they were in had to filled while they were away, which forces them to have to work in a different position they do not want to work in. This happened to Cristian. Before he left on deployment, he worked at Home Depot as a Line Manager, when he came back, he had to work as an appliance sales person, which he did not enjoy. These post deployment issues from the time lost during deployment could cause psychological problems or stresses, especially if they lose their spouse or significant other. These soldiers who develop psychological problems need to make sure they are seeking out help from the several counseling programs available to them.
Government Helping in Transitioning Soldiers Back Into Civilization
When soldiers come back from a deployment, the possibility of them having problems reconnecting back into civilization is fairly common; however, they are told when they are debriefed after deployment that there are people and organizations out there available to them for help if needed. There are organizations and counseling programs on base for face-to-face, or group counseling, and there are other sources a soldier or family member could call for help, such as the Military One Source. Military families can even seek help from trained professionals off base, such as doctors, psychologists, or psychiatrists. (Laguillo) Although, there are all these resources available to soldiers and families after deployments, many military families are not taking advantage of these resources for help.
Many soldiers come back from deployment and may have problems adjusting back to civilian life, but do not seek out the help available to them. A survey done on the mental health of soldiers who fought in Iraq found that less than half of the soldiers showing initial symptoms of mental illness made an effort to get help because of the fear of being stigmatized or hurting their careers (http://www.msnbc.msn.com/). I believe people in general have problems admitting when they have problems, but soldiers coming back from war with issues brought on from deployment especially need to realize without seeking out help, they are only hurting themselves and the people they love. Alicia Jimenez, a civilian who was once engaged to an army soldier, said after her fiance came back from deployment he was different. He became really depressed and was having nightmares often. She told him to get help, but he would not. She ended up leaving him some time later because he would not get help, and because he eventually became a person she could not even recognize anymore. (Jimenez) When soldiers come back from deployment, it can be hard for them and their families to reconnect. These soldiers need to make sure they are seeking out help from the available resources if they are having problems transitioning back into civilian life.
Military deployments can cause various harmful effects on the lives of many soldiers and their families. Soldiers and their loved ones can endure many emotional stresses during and after deployment. These emotional stresses can lead to psychological problems, which could forever alter the lives of the soldiers and their families. Many soldiers commit suicide because of the horrible events they experience during deployment. Many spouses also attempt suicide because of the stresses they experience while their loved one is away. The psychological issues and stresses brought about from deployments can also lead to child abuse and various trust issues, which can eventually lead to families separating, or relationships ending. Any of these soldiers and their family members who may be suffering from any psychological problems should seek out the help available to them, because without help, they are only hurting themselves and the people they love. I believe military deployments may be a necessity in maintaining our standard of living, but I also think the effects they have on soldiers and their families are often overlooked when analyzing the cost of maintaining freedom.
