Charlie Boyer
Betsy Jo Divine
English 105
4/16/09
Illegal Immigration and the United States Economy
In 2006, a total of three million illegal immigrants entered the United States, adding to the estimated fifteen to twenty million illegal foreigners already present in the country (Barlett 2). The issue of illegal immigration raises various questions and opposing viewpoints regarding the impact it places on the economy, health care, and education system. Many United States citizens view illegal immigration as a victimless issue that helps our society. Others feel it undermines the law stating immigrants must gain citizenship in order to live in the United States. Illegal Immigration harms the U.S. economy by increasing federal, state, and local government expenditures by means of welfare spending, health care costs, and education to illegal immigrants (Krikorian 167).
The United States welfare system places a large financial burden on the government each year. Welfare was originally developed in 1924 to provide assistance to the least advantaged American citizens. However, its focus has instead grown to include large numbers of poor illegal immigrants who lack the means to efficiently support themselves (Krikorian 169). Many illegal immigrants are uneducated, making it hard to find decent jobs once they come to America. Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration studies, states that in 2005 about 30 percent of all illegal immigrants in the workforce lacked a high school education, nearly quadruple the rate for native-born Americans (Krikorian 170). In most developed countries, people who have very little education generally earn very low wages, making it difficult for advancement in the work place. Therefore, many illegal immigrants continue living in poverty once they make it to the United States, while having no other choice but to rely on benefits the American government provides them with. "In 2005, immigrants were nearly half again as likely to be in poverty than natives-17 percent of immigrants had incomes below the official poverty line, compared with the 12 percent of native-born Americans" (Krikorian 170). Based on the percentages given, poor illegal immigrants account for a large amount of people living in poverty in the United States, and therefore are receiving a large amount of government welfare support.
Despite many illegal immigrants paying taxes, including federal and state income taxes, research shows that the revenue generated by illegal immigrants tax payments is generally outweighed by the costs of benefits provided to them by the government (Mc Cuen 77). Based on their extremely low incomes, which effects the amount in taxes illegal immigrants pay, many must rely on government services such as Head Start, the Special Supplemental Food Program, and school lunch programs which do not require legal citizenship (Mc Cuen 76). Nearly half of the illegal immigrant population is eligible for welfare programs based on their current living situation. Illegal immigrants may apply for programs which require citizenship such as Aid to families with dependent children (AFDC) and food stamps based on the status of their U.S. citizen born children. Although it is the child qualifying for the program, many families take advantage of the support it can provide to the entire family (Krikorian 172).
Elderly illegal immigrants are also coming to the United States to take advantage of the welfare program. Many elders learn about the benefits it has to offer and realize they far exceed the programs available in their countries of citizenship, and therefore use it as a retirement plan (Mc Cuen 78). Immigrants not only hear about the benefits by word of mouth, but sources such as, "What You Need to Know About Life in America," a publication sold in Taiwan and Hong Kong that offers insight into welfare benefits in the United States. The majority of illegal immigrants coming into the United States have suffered from economic difficulties in their previous countries of residence. However, the U.S. welfare state is not an appropriate system when it comes to the issue of supporting a large inflow of millions of uneducated illegal immigrants. It was not designed to support such great numbers of people, and is therefore placing a great strain on United States spending costs (Mc Cuen 79). The funds that are going to welfare could instead be going to the strengthening of the United States economy. American citizens are paying taxes with their hard earned money, which in turn is going to the government to help pay for welfare.
Heath care among immigrants has provided another issue of interest. The United States spent more than $2 trillion on health care in 2006 for illegal immigrants, with expenditures coming from the government on all levels (Kirkorian 172). This process drains the money from the U.S. economy into the hands of unlawful immigrants. The main problem with health care arises when illegal immigrants are uninsured. One study estimated that from 1980 to 2000, illegal immigrants have accounted for one third of the growth in the number of uninsured adults (Krikorian 172). Without insurance the government and tax payers must pay for the illegal immigrants who cannot afford the costs. Nearly half of the people in immigrant families are uninsured or on Medicaid (Krikorian 172). Medicaid which is the federal-state program for the poor and people with disabilities places a large burden on the economy ("Rising Health Care" para 6). Taxpayers pay for a portion of the costs for emergency department visits and Medicare prescription drug bills of illegal immigrants (Krikorian 173). The following table shows how the illegal immigration population accounts for the greatest percent of uninsured living in the country.
American taxpayers are paying to support illegal immigrant mothers who are delivering babies in hospitals across the country. A number of the states also have special taxes or general revenues to support emergency and trauma room systems providing care to illegal immigrants. This issue is placing stress on hospitals that are becoming overcrowded with illegal immigrant patients. Money and time are being used to take care of illegal immigrants, while less attention is being given to legal American citizens who may need treatment. Jeff Spade, vice president of North Carolina Hospital Association, says, "the burden of the uninsured immigrant is huge, it's exploded the amount of work that they have to do"("Rising Health Care" para 9). Therefore, this affects the entire U.S. taxpaying population, and has negative affects toward legal citizens who are being treated with lower standards in hospitals due to the overcrowding.
One point that needs to be taken into account is the amount of money spent on bilingual education programs for illegal immigrants. Most illegal immigrants come to the United States only knowing the language from their previous country of residence. Therefore, when they enroll in school they must learn English. This entails setting up expensive ESL programs. Most of the costs for programs such as Limited Education Proficient, come from the local and state governments who are already struggling to support the current legal American citizen population ("FAIR" para.2). A recent look at California found that programs for "limited English proficient" students cost an extra $1,756 to $3,505 per student which includes costs for instruction, administration of teachers and staff, and student support (Baker, Markham 661). The money that is being used to pay for extra immigrant programs, should instead be going into the improvement of American student education.
Another negative effect of illegal immigration on the United States economy is the service of education provided by the government. Many times when immigrants come to the United States they bring with them large families and young children. Illegal immigrant women also tend to be in their childbearing years, and therefore have a great possibility of raising more children once they arrive in the United States. These children are enrolled in school and as a result cause overcrowding. In many situations this can lead to deteriorating quality in the overall education (Krikorian 175). The U.S. Department of Education found 22 percent of public schools to be overcrowded based on enrollment of illegal immigrants. Overcrowding is not the only problem, as expenses are very high for certain education aspects. "Education of illegal-alien students cost the state's $12 billion a year, and when U.S.-born children of illegal aliens are added, the cost more than doubles to $28. 6 billion"(Kirkorian 176). Overcrowding and extra spending tends to occur in schools where minority populations are high, and school lunches are free or low priced. "California was estimated to have spent $7. 7 billion on education for the children of illegal aliens, nearly 13 percent of the state's total education budget" (Kirkorian 175). This negatively affects the native born citizens who are enrolled in school, as more money is taken away from their education and instead transferred to help struggling illegal immigrant students.
Although Illegal Immigration greatly harms the United States economy in terms of government spending, some feel immigration is a positive aspect to the American way of life. Opposing viewpoints see illegal immigration as a means of strengthening our economy by performing jobs most Americans would refuse to perform. Jobs that involve hard manual labor in which many Americans would rather not exert their time and effort into (Williams 93). However, this is not the case. Illegal immigration floods the job market with low skilled workers which in turn creates a loose labor market (Arpaio 28). Illegal immigrants are actually hurting poor low-skilled American workers who are seeing their wages drop as more immigrants expand the range of people competing for jobs appropriate to their skill level ( Mc Cuen 78). The National research Council found that the poorest tenth percentile of American workers suffer a 5 percent cut in wages because of immigration.
The opposing side also mentions how illegal immigrants pay some taxes which benefit the economy. However, when considering the fact that American citizens are paying for illegal immigrants welfare, health care, and education through tax dollars the trade is not equal by any means. It is unfair to make U.S. citizens pay for benefits to those who have no legal right to be here. Also, Americans do not consider the fact that it is a common practice for illegal immigrants to send the money they earn in the states back to their home countries. "Remittance" is the process of transferring money earned by an illegal foreign worker back to their home country. The University of Iowa, Center For International Finance And Development, published a study stating that in the United States it is estimated that 70% of illegal migrants remit funds on a regular basis (Krikorian 170). This is a concern because these funds should be staying in the United States to help pay revenue taxes to help the overall economy. Instead of the money staying in our country, it is instead being sent to other foreign countries. This does not benefit our society in any way, but instead takes money away and spreads it to other locations.
The issue over illegal immigration is a situation that will never be completely solved. The chart above shows the extent to which Illegal Immigration is spread across the United States. Instead, the issue must be controlled. It is a case of such complexity that only small steps can be taken to help with the overall bigger picture. History has shown that no matter what is done, illegal immigrants will always be in the country. The only way to efficiently deal with the problem is to shrink the illegal population through consistent law enforcing tactics. The United States needs to reduce the illegal population by deporting more illegals, deter the settlement of new illegals, and make it hard to obtain fake citizenship verification. Some suggest the Social Security card should be designated as the only authorized employment eligibility document instead of having thousands of different birth certificates and other documents that can now be used as evidence of eligibility (Mc Cuen 37). The welfare system has grown to such an extent that is would be nearly impossible to remove it completely. The United States, instead, needs to make it more difficult for illegal immigrants to acquire jobs and government benefits when they arrive. This in turn will hopefully dissuade more illegals from coming to the United States. Research has shown that most illegals are relatively recent arrivals and therefore more likely to respond to increased enforcement of immigration laws based on the fact that they greatly fear being discovered and sent back to their own countries. It has been argued that tighter controls on employment could cause a forty percent drop in the existing illegal population over a period of five years, just based on the fear of getting caught (Krikorian 218). A new modern idea toward stopping illegal immigrants from obtaining identity fraud is an electronic system that would verify immigration status by scanning and determining whether the identification is correct. A similar system is currently being used by the Department of Homeland Security, however it does not allow scanning and is very expensive. The current system only matches the name, date of birth, and social security number. This makes it somewhat easy for illegal immigrants to obtain fake identification and get away with it. The government should implement a system that allows illegal immigrants to be detected more easily when trying to obtain welfare, education, and housing benefits (Krikorian 218).
In conclusion, the U.S. economy is being affected by illegal immigration by placing financial strains on all federal, state, and local levels. The greatest challenge our country faces is the ability to reduce the illegal population over time and keep it at a reduced state. A low level of illegal immigration will help the United States in more ways than one. Our country needs to find ways of living with and managing the situation of illegal immigration at hand, instead of making the false assumption that the United States can make the entire issue disappear completely.
