Steuter 7
Caitlin Steuter
Ms. Belknap English 105
20 April 2009
Ban the Banning of Books
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. To Kill A Mockingbird. Go Ask Alice. Harry Potter. These are only a few of the hundreds of books that are being challenged and banned in both school libraries and classrooms all over the country. Some of these books are classics that we read in junior high school, ones that our parents read when they were children. They are on school curriculum lists everywhere. Teachers recommend these books to their students because they help teach valuable life lessons. However, there are people that feel the need to rid schools of these wonderful books. Who are they? Parents! Mostly conservative, religious parents. Sixty one percent of reported book challenges are made by parents (Book Banning). These book challengers are such a small population, and it is incredible that they are getting their way with this. How is it that a few organizations of concerned parents are able to challenge and successfully ban so many books, yet the rest of the population is willing to sit back and do nothing to stop it? Perhaps some do not care. Perhaps some do not have children and they do not realize the impact it can have. Perhaps some are simply unaware that book banning is happening at all. Book readers everywhere need to be informed of this growing problem. It is time to stand up and defend America's right to read.
The First Amendment states that all United States citizens have freedom of speech and press. This allows people to write and speak freely on any topic including religion, global warming, as well as less complex subjects. Suzanne Kauer, a teacher says, "Everyone has the right to read, view, hear what they want, everyone has the right not to read, view, or hear what they don't want" (56). This applies to everybody in America, including children and teenagers. However, censorship on children's and young adult books has become a major problem in elementary, junior high, and high school libraries throughout the country.
To challenge a book means to attempt to remove or restrict materials from public view. To ban a book means to actually have the material removed (Banned Books). Censorship occurs when a book is taken away or banned from a classroom or library, and the students are unfairly restricted from their access. It is fair to say that parents have the right to protect their own children from certain material, but what permits their authority over other children? Suzanne Kauer states politely, "I don't think one parent ought to decide that what doesn't work for his or her own child won't work for the rest of the class or school" (57). If parents are adamantly opposed to a book in the curriculum, a simple letter to the teacher asking for the assignments alternative text would suffice. This will prevent the book in question from being removed from the program.
Many books are challenged because of obscene language. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn was challenged because of the use of the word "nigger" throughout the book. Parents think that reading curse words is going to have a huge impact on what their own child says in everyday life. Other titles that have been challenged due to the use of offensive language are The Color Purple, The Chocolate War, Olive's Ocean, TTYL, and The Perks of Being a Wallflower (Book Banning). Yes, the characters in these books curse, but so does a lot of the current population. Children are more likely to encounter swearing in and outside of the classrooms than in the books they read. Also, subjection to offensive material, such as cursing, will not always result in usage by that individual. Some books, such as The Perks of Being a Wallflower, are challenged for more than one reason. In this case, in addition to foul language, it was challenged because of sexually graphic scenes.
Sexually explicit material is likely to get a book challenged or banned as well. Parents worry that certain material is not appropriate for particular age groups. Though this is true in some obvious circumstances, such as not allowing elementary students to read Playboy, restricting them too much will only make them more curious. Many people know from their own childhood experiences, that when an adult says "Don't touch that" or "Don't go in that room while I'm gone" they are most likely going to do it. Therefore, children and teens will go in search of this material through different sources such as the Internet and potentially other students. Similar to cursing, parents worry that reading this material will encourage young readers to indulge in sexual activities. But this is not necessarily true. As Kauer says, one can be "in the world but not of the world" (57). One can enjoy the book for what it is without acting or believing as the characters in the text do. Restricting access to books can make children, especially young adults, feel weak or incapable of handling the world. In other words, adolescents may feel as if their judgment cannot be trusted, and they are incapable of making their own decisions. This is not how anyone should feel. People of all ages should feel that they are strong and can judge things for themselves.
A seventeen year old girl in Texas experienced censorship first hand. She found Marcus Blake's new book called Sex Games in the high school library. The book was brought home. Her father, J.R. Crawford, found her reading it and immediately took action to have it removed from the school district. He, and other members of the Parents for Christ organization, believed that the book was inappropriate because it had the word "sex" in the title, and the cover was erotic. Crawford was determined to have this book banned in order to prevent children from becoming morally corrupt (Censor the Book). What he failed realize was that the story between the covers was one of finding true love, and what one will do to get it. What seventeen-year-old girl does not want to explore the journey of true love? The father's reaction to the book was very hasty. He did not look beyond the picture and words on the front cover and in turn, completely missed the meaning of the story inside. It is possible he did not take to heart the saying "never judge a book by its cover." Unfortunately, for his daughter, the students in the district, and others throughout the state, the book was removed from school libraries. In addition, it was also removed from some university libraries, public libraries, and bookstores because of fear of controversy (Censor the Book). Throughout this ordeal, the books true meaning remained undefended. Corresponding with sexual material, parents also challenge age appropriateness.
One of the fine lines of book censorship includes age appropriateness. How is it determined which books are correct for which age groups? Books are being censored by parents who think that the material within them is not age suitable. On this occasion, they feel that the content is too mature for the readers it is assigned to. When a child is told not to read a particular book because of this reason, it is very possible that the child or teen will be turned off to reading all together (No to Age Banding). The needs and tastes of the reader must be considered before permitting or denying the right to read the book. Some more gifted students are especially vulnerable to this kind of censorship. Gifted students, students whose IQ's are above 130, are usually passionate readers. Studies have shown that gifted students read three or four times as many books as the average student (Seney, 28) and they are also more adventurous in the kinds of literature they pursue. These students read at a more sophisticated level than their peers. If parents are challenging and banning books based off of age appropriateness, they are severely cutting off the needs of these specific students (Seney, 28). They are already limited with the books in the curriculum, so what happens when even more books are taken off the shelf? They may stop reading altogether. Kelsey Marie, a Professor at the College of Scholastica, says "A balance must be struck between age and access, but on the whole, intellectual freedom is the overriding principle" (27). Parents often become guarded when their children read books that contain different religious beliefs and values as well.
When ideas within a book conflict with parent's beliefs, it is likely the book will be challenged. Books such as Bridge to Tarabithia and The Golden Compass have been challenged because of the different religious view points. People will attempt and continue to attempt to suppress anything that disagrees with their own beliefs and values (Banned Books). Restricting children to one view will only delay the teaching process. "I don't think that students should read books that portray their particular religion.exclusively; that kind of relativism seems as dangerous as fitting everyone into the same mold. After all, one of the best reasons to read is to understand other people and places," says Suzanne Kauer (58). The book Fahrenheit 451 is about the burning of books in a future American city. The reason the books were burned within the text was because they presented too many different ideas, which caused more problems and disagreement in society. Literature had become too complex and too many beliefs and values clashed. As a result, the government decided to completely ban and burn all books. Could this be what our current society is heading for? After all, it all began with the censoring of a few books. Then, after books, what will be censored and banned next? Movies? Music? Will there be anything left to show for our individuality?
A number of books that are challenged by conservative parents are books that have encouraged many children to read, such as the Harry Potter series. When I was in the fifth grade I despised reading. I thought it was a waste of time. One day, as a prescription to my boredom, my mother led me to the couch and handed me Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone. She said I could not get up until I had read a few chapters, so I reluctantly opened the book and began reading. Initially I was confused and bored, but soon I realized I was able to relate to Harry in the sense that neither of us were popular and we were both waiting for something to happen in our lives that would make everything better and more exciting. With the first mention of magic we both got our wish. Harry discovered a new world where anything was possible and I got to accompany him on his journeys. In a way, I discovered a new world as well: the world of books. From then on, I have become a dedicated reader. A literature fanatic. If books such as this one are able to bring child and book together, why would anyone, especially parents, want to take that away from their own children? These parents should be embracing the fact that their children have found a joy in reading, even if it has magical creatures and witchcraft. Parents need to look past the fact that these books are full of magic and look at the good things they promote such as friendship, love, and trust.
Unfortunately, many parents are against these kinds of books that contain magic, witches, and wizards. The conservative, religious parents encourage the idea that magic in all forms is evil, and that people are to have nothing to do with it. Berit Kjos, a Christian writer, says "It makes me uncomfortable when children are immersed in topics that make witchcraft very exciting. It can be very confusing for them.it is much tougher for children, with less biblical knowledge today, to evaluate good and evil." From my own experiences with fantasy books, I have found the opposite to be true. It very easy to identify good and evil, and it has nothing to do with the magic in the story. It was made clear that "evil" included lying, cheating, and killing, and "good" included friendship, honesty, respect, and love. Mark West, a professor of English with a specialty in children's literature says, "They [the parents] don't see it as fantasy. They see it as real. A small group of Americans can't accept fantasy that way. They really do care about the books impact, so they go against others' legal rights," (Dunne). When book censorship begins to affect other people's access, legal rights need to come first, so how are these small groups of people getting away with banning all these books? I say enough is enough.
Thousands of books in the last few decades have been challenged and banned from school classrooms and libraries all over the country. In fact, in the year 2007, there were 420 challenges recorded by the American Library Association (Book Banning). The banning of books is violating Americans First Amendment rights. The crazy thing is that the people successfully banning these books are such a small group, a tiny portion of America's population. How can we stand by and let our children, our younger brothers and sisters, and our little cousins' rights be stripped away? It is time to stand up to these parents, and defend the books they are trying to hide from us. We must protect these books from banishment and defend their true meaning.
