Hill 8
Marcus Hill
Jacquelyn Belknap
ENG 105
23 April 2009
Should College Athletes Get Paid?
A heated debate that has been happening in college sports over the past several years is whether or not college athletes should be paid. There are numerous reasons why people think that college athletes should not receive salaries. College athletes go to school for two reasons: to receive an education and to participate in sports. Parents may fear that the child's life may be ruined due to the payment interfering with their education and athletics. Fans of collegiate sports may lose interest because the game will lose its authenticity that it holds over the National Basketball Association (NBA), National Hockey League (NHL), National Football League (NFL) Major League Baseball (MLB) or any other professional sports. Anyone who is in the work force may be upset that students/athletes are getting paid far more than they are and have not earned it. Workers may also be infuriated by the fact that many athletes are already compensated for what they do on and off the court, field, ice, or where ever they play. It would not be fair to receive cash when college athletes get a free education along with numerous other benefits. In today's society with the falling economy, athletes should not be paid.
Education, books, academic advising and several other advantages are given to student-athletes. They have many distinct advantages that no other student on campus has. Many argue that this is fair enough payment for a student-athlete. Participants in Division I sports are allotted several luxuries that should count as "money" in this case. A softball coach from Wesleyan College believes that athletes are already "compensated". Athletes are offered perks such as free room and board, free medical attention even for something such as the common cold, free tuition and books, free apparel from the school sponsor and free academic advising, which is not offered at all schools (USATODAY). The cost of all of these expenses totals to around $80,000 per year. This is just for one individual athlete. Over four years that would be an approximate total of $320,000 for one single athlete! Student athletes are not entertainers; they are exactly what their names imply. Paying student-athletes in cash would probably have dramatic affects on the college game.
There are numerous characteristics that distinguish college sports from professional sports. Some fans of the college sports enjoy watching them over professional sports because of the heart, hustle, determination, and intensity that drive many of the college athletes. In an interview with Terel Hughes, he stated that he enjoyed college over the pros because "In the pros, any team is capable of beating another team on any given night. In college sports, this just isn't the case. It's an amazing thing to watch when a team who has no chance of beating a powerhouse wins the game." In sports there is a term to describe teams who perform miracles against greater teams. This term is known as being a "Cinderella" team. Seeing "Cinderella" teams in professional leagues does not happen very often because most teams have all-star caliber players on their teams. Many collegiate teams do not have star players with such skills. The hard work phase of the game is what makes it so amazing to watch stated in the interview with Terel Hughes. Also in another interview with DJ Morman, he stated that "Not always knowing the result is one of the best parts. Watching the Men and Women basketball tournament and watching the Men's college football final game much better than the NBA Finals or, in some aspects, The Superbowl." Many fans enjoy watching something that they may not know the final result in. Giving athletes money could cause them to lose their work ethic which would change how some view the game. Not to mention, it would also break strict National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) rules.
Rewarding a student-athlete with money as of 2009 is prohibited and not permitted in any way by the NCAA. It can lead to sanctions, being stripped of scholarships and other punishments if the program, athlete, or coach is caught. About 16 years ago, Michigan University was involved in a money laundering scandal which involved a man named Ed Martin and former NBA players Chris Webber, Robert Traylor and Maurice Taylor (ESPN). Webber and Martin faced federal court because of the scandal and Michigan University was forced to relinquish some of its wins, banners, along with several other accomplishments solely because of them.
If the NCAA were to allow college athletes to be paid then situations like this would have to be critically reviewed to decided if what was taken from the record book should be put back in. At the University of South Florida, the tennis and baseball team were receiving coaches salaries for their work (New York Times). The NCAA critically reviewed this issue and decided to strip both teams of an unspecified amount of scholarships. This can be a damaging blow on the school though for several reasons. A lack of scholarships would not entice top athletes to go to that school to play. Also in some cases, parents would not want their children to go to a school who had a reputation associated with any scandals. Paying college athletes would not only cause problems for schools, it would create numerous problems from situations in the past where these laws have been broken.
There have been several occasions in college sports history where players, coaches, and sport programs have gotten into legal troubles due to of illegal payments. In college sports there is a term called the Death Penalty. This is when the NCAA will not permit a team to play any games (ESPN). From 1973-1975, The University of Southern Louisiana (now the University of Louisiana at Lafayette) was issued the Death Penalty due to a basketball recruiting infringement. Trying to cheat to better the team cost them a lot more than just a player, it cost them a whole two seasons of games and they may have lost many players due to the infringement. Attempting to use money as an advantage in college sports is not a good idea. It usually ends up doing more harm than good and can change the way the program is viewed. College should not be used as a way to earn money. It should be used as a stepping stone to better oneself as a person and as an athlete.
With the exception of those athletes who were good enough to skip college and excel in the pros such as Alex Rodriguez, Derek Jeter, Lebron James, Kobe Bryant, Alexander Ovechkin, and Sidney Crosby, college is used to either gain experience and improve in the respective sport or mainly to get a better education. If athletes were to earn a salary, this may cause a rise in tuition for students while the athletes enjoy the money that they were paid (College Student Journal). In places such as Arizona where schools are facing budget crisis, paying extra on top of already rising tuition causes, it would be highly unlikely that incoming students would be willing to pay more. College students who are there to acquire better skills at a specific sport may leave early to pursue a career in the pros. Some coaches understand that they may not have a player for the full four years but still offer them a full ride scholarship. In 2008, Oak Hill Academy Point Guard Brandon Jennings told the media that he would not go to college for the minimum requirement of one year. Instead Jennings stated that he would play overseas in Europe (slamonline). Jennings was suppose to attend the University of Arizona where it was thought Jennings would play at least one year and then make the leap to the pros. This may not seem like a big deal but once an athletic scholarship is handed out it cannot be returned and given to another player. This caused one player a potential free ride through college.
Full ride athletic scholarships are handed out to the best players in a specific sport and can be renewed at the end of each year like most other scholarships. However, athletic scholarships follow very specific guidelines. An athletic scholarship is much like how a contract is for an actor/actress. If they do not meet the guidelines of the scholarship, it can be taken away from them and may or not be renewed (NCAA). A scholarship is also much like a check; once someone's name is put on it, it can only go to that person or else it is void. Students are suppose to sign what is known as a Letter of Intent which is binding agreement between a student and a specified institute. "If the prospective student-athlete does not enroll at that institution for a full academic year, he or she may be subject to specific penalties, including loss of a season of eligibility and a mandatory residence requirement" (NCAA). It is not often that a student signs a Letter of Intent then chooses to go to another program. When it does happen, it can hurt the school because it may cause them to lose a scholarship and possibly a student athlete. Money could cause college sports to lose some of its hard work aspects.
College athletes have to truly earn what they are given; that is if they are given a scholarship, it can be taken away at any time if they academic troubles, off the court, ice, or field issues, and several other issues. Professional athletes are signed to contracts and will receive their money no matter what the infringement is because many of them are guaranteed money when they sign them. A walk-on player is someone who is not recruited and is not awarded an athletic scholarship. Walk-On players have the same responsibilities as a player who is on a full ride scholarship. In professional sports the star players are not usually treated as the same as the last person on the bench. As shown in Table 1, professional athletes are paid during their stints in the league. The pressure of having an abundance of money can put a lot of pressure on even the best of athletes. In an interview done by Buster Olney on Alex Rodriguez, Rodriguez stated that he used steroids because he "felt an enormous amount of pressure and felt like I had the weight of the world on top of me and I needed to perform at a high level every day" (ESPN) With money comes the pressure of performing well above standards.
College athletes are held to high expectations no matter what the position may be. In 2009, Oklahoma Lady Sooners Senior Center Courtney Paris told the press that she would pay back her scholarship for her last year if the Sooners did not win the title (ESPN). "I have a passion for our fans and university, and I want to do something special" (ESPN). It is not often that something like this occurs in any sport. This shows the dedication that some college athletes have over professionals. In the summer of 2007 Washington Wizards Point Guard Gilbert Arenas signed a contract worth $111 (Reuters). From 2007-2009, Arenas has only played in 15 games and has earned all of his money thus far. This shows the great difference between college and professional sports.
College sports are viewed all over the world and on sports shows the athletes are constantly praised for getting it done in the classroom as well as on the court. If money was thrown into collegiate level sports then many athletes may lose dedication to sports and focus more on money. Also they may completely blow off class which would cause them to get poor grades, which would cause them to be ineligible, which would lead to athletes not being able to play in games. It could turn into a bad domino effect if college athletes were to be paid.
