1
Different Sides
Different Sides to Physical Education
Morgan June
English 105
Ms. Clark - Sanchez
May 1, 2009
Different Sides to Physical Education
Physical education for young people in the U.S. is moving towards reform, with an aim of promoting physically active, healthy lifestyles long term. This is the new central goal of physical education. Kids are to learn healthy ways of living and exercise in order to enhance their future. It used to be that the physical educator's job was to get students active in the gym or classroom and it was focused on pure fun. There was no strong emphasis on getting up from the couch and playing outside after school. But as media entertainment gets cheaper and more prevalent, we are seeing more and more kids inside playing video games and watching television, and less kids running around outside with their peers. Refer to Graph 1 for an illustration of the physical activity trends from 1988 - 2007. This graph shows a constant decrease and clearly a need for change. The author from the article "Address Childhood Obesity Through Quality Physical Education" states, "Unless something changes, the current generation of children will have shorter life expectancies, lower quality of life and more financial burdens on healthcare than the previous generation" (Address Childhood Obesity Through Quality Physical Education, n.d.). Therefore, getting students active and having fun in the classroom are still important factors, but are no longer the sole goals to physical education classes, considering that way obviously led to sedentary students. Teachers now have the job of promoting healthy living and opportunities for success in the classroom in order to motivate students to continue physical activity outside of the school setting. There are many new ideas from professionals in the field on how to go about this, all of which would contribute to the goal effectively. Some are already in use and some are suggestions for the future. But innovative ideas to achieve the central goal of physical education are being threatened by budget cuts to an important program called PEP [Carol M. White Physical Education for Progress Program ("Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association says President's Budget Shortchanges Physical Activity," 2005)]. This program gives schools money for equipment, which is necessary for the programs that implement the fresh ideas to promote physical activity for life. The history of physical education is changing, as emerging ideas for the new central goal gain momentum. However, current budget cuts to a vital program for funding this movement threaten the ability to turn these ideas into a reality for the future.
Graph 1
Physical Activity Trends
Source: "1988-2007 No Leisure." 2008
In the past, most physical education teachers were known to just "roll out the ball." This phrase refers to the teacher simply stating the game for the day, giving kids equipment and letting them play. There was fitness testing and certain games that singled children out and created negative attitudes towards physical activity. "Historically, the physical education profession has relied on fitness testing as the primary form of evaluation" (Welk, 2008). There were typically tasks such as the number of push-ups students could do in a minute, how long students could hold the arm hang and how far students could sit and reach. More often than not, these tasks were given to a few students while the rest of the class watched. There are limitations to this way of going about evaluation though. It is centered on the ending product instead of the behavior (physical activity) that gets students to their outcome (Welk, 2008). It is a form that assesses students once a year, with little preparation or comprehension of how the results of their test relates to anything (Strean, 2008). The famous game of dodge ball is getting the boot in many schools, as well as a few other games that used to be widely accepted in physical education. The debate on dodge ball is highly controversial though, with fans of the game upset that youngsters will not get the chance to enjoy it as they did. Many loved dodge ball for its fast-paced, intense adrenalin rushes, and are dissatisfied with its recent banning. But those who are for the banning present valid reasons. It is a game where humans are targets and children try to slam other children with a ball to get them "out". Once a child is hit with a ball, they must sit on the sidelines. This presents a problem in the sense that typically the weakest, heaviest kids who need the most exercise are aimed for and hit, leaving them to sit and watch the good athletes in the class continue to play (Edwards, 2001). This does exactly the opposite of promoting physical activity; it puts a negative image with the word P.E. in the less athletic child's mind. It is warned that dodge ball could lead to aggressive and even violent behavior later in life, and is thought by some to be the number one most villainous game (Edwards, 2001). Regardless of how both sides of this debate feel, changes from past ways continue.
Many schools are already incorporating innovative ideas into their physical education classes to promote physical activity for life. Most of these are different from past ideas in the sense that they give kids the opportunity to take charge of their physical activity levels on their own. A few examples come from the article "Increasing Student Physical Activity during the School Day: Opportunities for the Physical Educator." The authors talk about having students come up with their own games, incorporating the name of the game, any rules, the purpose, how points are accumulated and strategies to succeed (Brewer, Luebbers & Shane, 2009). This allows kids to go through a deeper though process than simply coming up with a game and teaching their peers. It also allows them to create a game to their ability level, which will, for the most part, match their same grade level peers. This is not the newest of ideas, but is recently being brought into the physical education classroom. Also already being done in many physical education classes are a combination of cardio-respiratory endurance activities, muscular fitness activities and flexibility activities. This variety of different activities strengthens the heart and lungs, bones and muscles to improve posture, and keeps muscles and joints mobile (Brewer, Luebbers & Shane, 2009). All of these are necessary to keep a strong structured body, and are important basic factors in staying physically active for life. Allowing for more equipment available to students during recess time is a way students are getting more active as well (Brewer, Luebbers & Shane, 2009). There should always be the opportunity for kids to take full advantage of the school's equipment while they are on campus. Past physical education classes focused largely on finding good athletes for extra curricular activities, such as sports. But in the article "No More Dodge Ball: What's New In PE?" the author describes the need for less emphasis on athletics in physical education, and more in developing a wide range of useful lifetime skills (Strean, 2008). This is because many times, skills that come from extra curricular sports stay only with the children throughout their days in school. With less athletic emphasis in PE, there is more room to teach broader skills that the students will be able to use forever. Another idea that has successfully integrated into schools is "The PE Central Challenge" that started in 1999 (Graham, Manross, Palmer, Tacla & Konukman, 2006). It is a list of six motor skills that are challenging to fourth and fifth grades. The students are given six months to try and complete as many skills on the list as they can. At the end of the six months they are rewarded success pins for completing x number of skills. This has shown to motivate kids to practice on their own time, as well as help each other succeed. It allows for success with many different skill levels, and is very appealing to teachers and parents (Graham, et al., 2006).
As mentioned earlier, dodge ball is currently being banned from many schools for its sense of aggressiveness and competitiveness. The opposing side of the ban feels it is not right to take dodge ball away from the students and that the disapproval of the game is unjust. "Dodge ball seems embedded in our national psyche, which could explain why it has such fierce detractors and loyal defenders. Anyone who attended U.S. schools in the last century remembers it" (Vail, 2001). One critic, Martha Kupferschmidt, works for the Murray school district in Utah and is curious as to why dodge ball has been singled out. She says that if dodge ball is under scrutiny for aggressiveness, why aren't other sports, such as wrestling, football and kickball? (Edwards, 2001). Another critic, Rick Hanetho who started the National Amateur Dodgeball Association says, ".it's just a game. This criticism is absurd, just crazy" (Edwards, 2001). But there are many people who are happy with the banning of this game and feel that it is the exact course of action schools should presently be taking. As said by the head of the physical education department at Eastern Connecticut State University, Neil Williams, "I don't agree that it's the birthright of every kid to get whacked on the head with a red rubber ball. There's plenty of opportunities to get hit on the head with a red rubber ball, literally and figuratively. Schools don't need to give those opportunities" (Vail, 2001). It is ranked number one on the P.E. Hall of Shame practices, and as also said by Williams, "It allows the stronger kids to pick on and target the weaker kids. It's like Lord of the Flies, with adults encouraging it" (Edwards, 2001). He is not alone with the way he feels; that banning it is the right thing to do. "The whole game to [some kids] is about hitting someone as hard as they can and laughing. If a boy doesn't throw hard and make a hit, the other boys call him a girl," says a fifth-grade girl who is happy about the game being expelled (Edwards, 2001). There is also the competition side; that the game enforces competitiveness in a negative, aggressive manner. Many schools do not support this kind of negative competitiveness and have their own ideas about the issue, particularly a U.S. school named Mililani Mauka Elementary. Their physical educators do not enforce competition, but instead ".strive to teach the children the importance of working cooperatively to ensure the success of the whole group" (A Word About Competition and P.E., n.d.). There are clearly two extremely different sides to this debate, but for the time being, the anti-dodge ball side is taking victory. There are many more ideas to bring into physical education classes that have not yet made it.
Although there are heaps of new ideas for the future of physical education, budget cuts may prevent some of the more costly ones from becoming a reality. All of the suggestions for the future are to actively promote physical activity for life. These new ideas give kids access to tools that they will be able to use forever. Physical education is the greatest way to introduce and teach these to kids so they will feel comfortable using the tools on their own, outside of the classroom. Some of the more expensive ideas for the future are already being threatened by budget cuts. One idea is incorporating mountain biking into physical education classes. This is a great idea and would be a wonderful activity for kids to add to their repertoire of skills they can use to be active on their own, but it is very expensive. It includes obtaining bicycles, helmets, screwdrivers, air pumps, Allen wrenches, tire levers, and many other parts. It would be costly to start this program and costly to maintain it (when parts, tools and bikes go bad). With extreme budget cuts to the Carol M. White Physical Education for Progress (PEP) Program, which provides funds directly to schools for funding equipment ("Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association says President's Budget Shortchanges Physical Activity," 2005), programs like this are even harder to get up and running for their costliness. Other ideas include purchasing heart-rate monitors and pedometers to test physical activity during physical education. This form of evaluation is important because it focuses on the actual behavior being done, as opposed to just the final product, which fitness testing does (Welk, 2008). Schools need a combination of these two evaluation types for kids to understand how different levels of physical activity leads to differentiated results (Welk, 2008). More thoughts include Family Fitness Nights, which are costly because they require tons of equipment, food and workers, and "Daily Activity Duffel Bags" which are bags full of equipment that students can check out to take home and share with family and friends. This is risky because students could lose or damage equipment, meaning the school has to purchase more. All of these costly ideas are great for promoting physical activity for life, but are going to be harder to put into effect due to PEP budget cuts. The President/CEO of SGMA International (which stands for Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association) talked about how unreal it is that funds are being cut from this cost effective program, which helps attain the central goal of physical education (promoting healthy lifestyles through physical education). During a time when there is heightened awareness all over the general public of physical inactivity and obesity, these necessary funds should be doubled, not cut ("Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association says President's Budget Shortchanges Physical Activity," 2005). President Bush's budget proposal eliminates $19 million from the PEP Program and is only expected to worsen. There is zero funding anticipated for this program in the years to come ("Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association says President's Budget Shortchanges Physical Activity," 2005). With this, the question is how will there ever be enough money to support these great ways of promoting physical activity in children's lives? Although these ideas are being threatened by budget cuts, there are more ideas for the future that are less expensive, therefore not in danger.
Non-costly ideas for the future include cross-content integration, asking the community for donations of used equipment, physical activity themed school days, and a program called ACTIVITYGRAM. Cross-content integration refers to including physical activity into other classes, such as math, English, and science. "During math class, have students provide answers through physical activity, such as jumping jacks" (Brewer, Luebbers & Shane, 2009). Other ways this can work is having students journal about their physical activity in English, and using the different muscle groups they are studying in science, having them report what activity they participated in to use that muscle group (Brewer, Luebbers & Shane, 2009). These are ideas that will get kids more physically active during the day, making them more likely to be physically active after school. Asking the community for donations of used equipment is a no cost idea that would be very effective (Brewer, Luebbers & Shane, 2009). Many people have old baseballs, Frisbees, basketballs, and equipment of that sort just lying around in their garages never being used. If flyers were sent home with every student, asking families for used equipment in decent condition, the results would most likely be fantastic. This would be helpful to the schools because they could save a lot of money by not buying tons of new equipment each year. Having themed school days is another non-costly way of promoting physical activity for life. Examples of this could be having "Walk to School Day" where everyone is encouraged to walk to school, or "Turn off the TV Challenge" where students are encouraged to not watch any television the whole day (Brewer, Luebbers & Shane, 2009). Kids love challenges like these and would be excited to partake in the activities. Finally, of the non-costly ideas, there is the ACTIVITYGRAM program. This program allows kids to keep track of and monitor their physical activity levels and time spent participating in activities, as well as improvements they make (Welk, 2008). This is done on the computer, which is still possible by use of school computers if kids do not have access to one at home.
Physical education has definitely changed from the past. It is no longer "rolling out the ball" and intimidating kids with singling out activities such as dodge ball and the old way of fitness testing. There are changes taking place right now in physical education classes such as having kids create their own games, including a variety of activities, eliminating dodge ball and introducing kids to the PE Central Challenge. These are intended to promote physical activity for life by getting children to enjoy being active. There are also many new ideas that have not yet been incorporated into physical education and are in jeopardy of never being included by PEP budget cuts. Some examples of these are Family Fitness Nights, including mountain biking into the curriculum, daily activity duffle bags and heart rate monitors. There could be a compromise where some of these could be included in physical education for less money. Flyers could go home with students asking for specific tools or parts the school needs for mountain biking, and bikes could possibly be purchased inexpensively from Wal-Mart or thrift stores. Also, the daily activity duffle bag idea could get equipment from donations as well. These might take a little more work to accomplish, but could be possible on a budget. There are less expensive ideas though, that can be included in classes by physical educators as well. These include the ACTIVITYGRAM program, asking for equipment donations, having physical activity themed school days and cross-content integration. A simple way to look at these different ideas, and if they are expensive or not, is in Table 1. Physical education is rapidly changing and always looking for innovative ideas to get Americans to enjoy physical activity. Some are easier than others to include into physical education classes, but there is always a way if the physical educator is determined to help the kids.
Table 1
Less Expensive
Ideas
More Expensive
Ideas
-ACTIVITYGRAM
- Cross-Content
Integration
- Physical Activity
Themed School
Days
- Ask community
for used equip.
donations
-Heart Rate
Monitors
- Pedometers
- Mountain Biking
- Family Fitness
Nights
- Daily Activity
Duffle Bags
Source: Brewer. 2009, Palmer. 2006 and Welk. 2008
