The Immune System | 1
The Amazing Possibilities of the Immune System
Amber Jones
Northern Arizona University
Clark-Sanchez
April 25, 2009
The Amazing Possibilities of the Immune System
It is safe to say that sickness is something that everyone faces at least once in their lives. Wither it be a cold, the flu, or some type of infection it seems that getting sick is inevitable. The body is attacked daily by billions of bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi so it is a miracle that the human race is not constantly sick. It is not a miracle but the workings of one of the most impressive systems in the body, the immune system. The immune system is responsible for identifying, fighting, and killing any invading foreign objects and microorganisms that enter the body. To keep up with the demands of protecting the body from such a wide range of microorganisms the immune system has developed into a highly diverse and complicated system. Due to the complexity of the immune system, immunologists (scientist who study the immune system) have been studying the inner workings of it in the hopes of finding a way of using it to develop a new therapeutic drug. The reason the immune system is looking as promising as it has been as the new blueprints for therapeutic drugs is that it can kill a wide range of microorganisms and it is less likely that those microorganisms would develop resistance to it. One of the problems that the medical community is facing is that the antibiotics used to treat bacterial infections are becoming useless due to bacterial resistance. The "super bugs" that are resistant to some of the most powerful antibiotics most often result in fatalities and start off as just a small infection which is why it is important to develop a new and improved way of fighting those diseases. There is also another problem; there is no effective way to fight viral infections. There are ways to suppress the symptoms but no way of killing it all but the immune system has been observed killing viruses. The immune system is made up of so many different cells that not only could a synthetic drug could be developed but several that could treat several different diseases and disorders. The new drug could not only replace antibiotics but could be more effective at fighting off viruses, bacteria, parasites, and fungi.
The immune system has been gaining a lot of attention as a model for an antimicrobial drug of some sort. Its ability to kill a large range of pathogens in such low concentrations has made the idea increasingly popular. In a study based on the advances made in with defense peptides, a cell found within the immune system, Shahar Rotem said, "AMPs are widely regarded as a potential source of future antibiotics owing to a remarkable set of advantageous properties ranging from molecular simplicity to low-resistance swift-kill of a broad range of microbial cells." The hope for defense peptides and other cells like it is that a drug developed from the immune system can replace antibiotics. The problem with antibiotics is there is a high rate of resistance. One of the biggest problems the public is facing now is the spread of MRSA. MRSA is in essence a staph infection that occurs on the skin. The thing about MRSA is it is resistant to all but one antibiotic. Graph 1 shows the increase of deaths due to MRSA infections over the years. If not caught in time this simple skin infection often results in death. A drug created from the immune system can hopefully stop resistance in its tracks.
Graph 1. MRSA Deaths from 1993 to 2005
It is important first to understand what the immune system is, why we need it, and how it works. In the Article "Stop that Germ" the author describes how often the body is bombarded by germs and how the immune system works once germs enter the body.
"Humans are under constant siege by these voracious adversaries. Germs of every description strive tirelessly to invade the comfortably warm and bountiful body, entering through the skin or by way of the eyes, nose, ears and mouth. Fortunately for man's survival, most of them fail in their assault. They are repelled by the tough barrier of the skin, overcome by the natural pesticides in sweat, saliva and tears, dissolved by stomach acids or trapped in the sticky mucus of the nose or throat before being expelled by a sneeze or a cough" (Stop that Germ (1988)).
This article is a little older but the information is still relevant. Microorganisms are constantly attacking the body and trying to take over. So how is it that we are not constantly sick? When microorganisms get past the body's first line of defense it is up to the second and third line of defense of the immune system to stop them from spreading. It is not like the other systems of the body that are confined to one specific area because it has to function as the body's surveillance system. In order to identify those organisms that are not native to the body and destroy them, the cells of the immune system circulate through two main pathways, the lymphatic system and through blood. The second line of defense is nonspecific meaning the cells that make up this part cannot distinguish between invading organisms and proceed to kill as many pathogens as they can. In this category include neutrophils that engulf and kill bacteria directly, along with Basophiles that are involved with inflammation, and Eosinophils that are active in fungal and worm infections and creating inflammation (Figure 1). There is a reason that these cells aid in inflammation. Inflammation serves to, "1. Mobilize and attract immune components to the site of injury, 2. Set in motion mechanisms to repair tissue damage, localize and clear away harmful substances and, 3. Destroy microbes and block their further invasion." (Microbiology (2007)) Along with those three other cells there are Monocytes, which are white blood cells, can circulate to the area they are needed and mature into macrophages. Macrophages are large cells that engulf and digest whatever needs to be taken care of. (Microbiology, 2007).
While the cells in the second line of defense are working, the third line of defense comes to help. The third line of defense is made up mostly of lymphoblasts which differentiate into T-cells and B-cells, also known as lymphocytes, and natural killers (Figure 1). B-cells are responsible for forming antibodies. These antibodies are then circulated around in the blood and attach to pathogens. The T-cells will then attach to the specific antibody and destroy the pathogen. This element of the system is the reason why we receive vaccines, and why vaccines provide the body future protection from a known pathogen. When the bacteria or viruses are injected the immune system is able to produce an antibody specific to that pathogen and know how to kill it if it should ever reenter the body (Microbiology, 2007). The immune system is an incredible system that over time has developed an amazingly specific way of defending the body. Understanding how well the immune system defends the body is where the idea of using it as a drug first arose.
Figure 1: Different Cells of the Immune System.
There are a lot of immune cells that do nothing else but kill pathogens so how is it that the immune system does not destroy the body in the cross fire? It all comes down to receptors. There are three different ways the immune system can identify "self" from "non-self". In the article "Decoding the Patterns of Self and Nonself by the Innate Immune System" the authors looked further into this issue. The first thing they found was that the immune system involves identifying different metabolic activities that microorganisms perform that the body does not. The second involves different genetic markers that help the immune system to tell the difference between invading organisms and the body. The third is detecting any change in markers that would indicate infection. Certain receptors can either inhibit the phagocytosis (cell eating) of cells or promote the killing of damaged, dead or infected cells. This is usually the case with apoptotic cells. When cells become infected they have sensors that trigger an assisted suicide by the innate immune system. This killing off of infected cells helps stop the spread of the infection by killing those cells before the pathogen can spread to healthy cells. There are also necrotic cells, similar to the apoptotic cells, which release a marker that is usually kept within the cell membrane which then causes inflammation. The authors believe that while the apoptotic cells are trying to signal the innate immune system, the necrotic cells are trying to trigger tissue repair (Medzhitov, Janeway (2002)).
The immune system is incredibly complex and despite the number of years that have been spent researching it, little is known of it today but two examples of specific areas of the immune system that are currently being studied are neutrophils and cationic defense peptides. Neutrophils have a very unique way of killing bacteria. They have NET's which are neutrophil extracellular traps. "NET's appear to be a form of innate response that binds microorganisms, prevents them from spreading, and engulfs a high local concentration of antimicrobial agents to degrade virulence factors and kill bacteria." Brinkmann, Reichard, Goosmann, Fauler, Uhlemann, Weiss, Wienrauch, Zychlinsky, (2004)). When inflammation accrues the neutrophiles migrate to that area and release their NET's, which engulf the pathogen, and release chemicals that then kill the pathogens. It may be possible that scientist can use the idea of NETs to create a drug that could trap bacteria in a similar way. This aspect of the immune system is an idea but the real research is being conducted on defense peptides.
One of the reasons cationic host defense peptides are so promising is they have been proven to reduce biofilm production within the body. Biofilms are complex bacterial communities that are harder to fight when involved in infections. The cationic defense peptides are able to alter certain genes present in the bacteria. The genes that are affected are critical in biofilm formation. "These peptides often have a broad spectrum of abilities to modulate immunity as part of the innate immune response, and they demonstrate promise as a new approach to antimicrobial therapy" (Human Host Defense (2008)). This is why the defense peptides are being researched so heavily. It seems like they are the perfect candidate for a new and improved drug.
Like any new drug there are going to be problems. While researching the and collecting the latest research on defense peptides Shahar Rolem said, "the peptide formula per se, represents less than ideal drug candidates, namely because of poor bioavailability issues, potential immunogenicity, optional toxicity and high production costs," so at the moment being able to treat people with just peptides is not completely out of the question yet but there are other ideas out there.
Despite the problems, defense peptides are still a hopeful candidate for an antibacterial drug but unfortunately, bacteria are not the only pathogens to worry about. Viruses are not as treatable as bacteria but scientist have developed a drug therapy from the immune system called interferon therapy. Interferon's are cells in the immune system that are antiviral and help the T-cells identify and kill the viruses. In the article "Antiviral Drug Discovery: Ten More Compounds, and Ten More Stories," Erik De Clercq talks about ten different antiviral drugs he has had personal experience with, one of which was interferon. "Which, on the clinical side, are the most important indications for the use of IFNs? These are undoubtedly the use of IFN-b in the treatment of MS and of IFN-a in the treatment of hepatitis C." Hepatitis C, along with Hepatitis B, is caused by a virus that once enters the body never leaves. Interferon therapy has been proven to improve hepatitis patient's health. The interesting thing is that it was developed as an antiviral drug but it is also effective at treating MS. It is never a loss when a drug is created because it can turn out to treat something else even more effectively.
Despite how promising it all is seems there are more problems. Like all systems of the body there are problems within the immune system that can arise. Lupus is an example where the immune system attacks the body and causes serious inflammation. There is no cure but it can be managed. In serious cases organs can fail and death usually ensues. It would be important that if a drug were created, the doses could not be too high. It would not be beneficial to create a drug that instead of killing just pathogens would start attacking the body like in lupus. (Lupus (2008))
It would be easy if lupus was the only autoimmune disease but unfortunately it is not. One more well known autoimmune disorder is Rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis "afflicts 2. 5 million in the U.S., usually hits people between ages 30 and 50 but it can strike at any age, including childhood. It is three times as common in women as in men and can shorten life by a decade" (Bjerklie B. (2002). Rheumatoid arthritis is when the immune system starts attacking the synovial fluid that surrounds the joints. Synovial fluid is necessary to reduce the friction between bones. When the synovial fluid is destroyed the surrounding tissue is destroyed and the bones are slowly ground a way. It is a very painful disorder and it is important that if using a drug created from the immune system that it would not start attacking the body in that way.
Most autoimmune diseases like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis involve painful inflammation but there is hope. In the article, "Anti-inflammatory neuropeptide receptors: new therapeutic targets for immune disorders?" the authors are looking at specific cells within the immune system called anti-inflammatory neuropeptdies. "These neuropeptides function at several levels, regulating the balance between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory factors, and between TH1 effectors, TH1 auto reactive and regulatory T cells. Based on these characteristics, neuropeptides could represent feasible therapeutic agents in the treatment of immune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis or Crohn's disease, characterized by having dual aspects inflammatory and autoimmune" (Gonzalez-Rey E. & Delgado M., (2007)). Neuropeptides signal when the immune system should initiate inflammation and when it should stop and are proving very promising due to the fact that they do regulate both factors.
Another idea involving the immune system does not involving making it into a drug but using it as a drug carrier. In the article "T lymphocytes as potential therapeutic drug carrier for cancer treatment" the authors research that very idea. ""In the present therapy approach therapeutic nanoparticles are loaded into immune cells for a target specific and sheltered transport to the diseased site." The current idea is that the nanoparticles can be loaded onto immune cells that are already being sent to the infection or cancer site. This guaranties delivery and release of the drug which might be an alternative to a direct drug.
The immune system is a very complex system and it will take many years before it is fully understood and even then it will still continue to surprise us. In order to create more effective drugs, immunologists need to understand the immune systems very delicate aspects. That way there is a less chance of negative side effects. The truth is that a new drug needs to be a developed to replace antibiotics that can kill not only bacteria but viruses, fungi, and parasites and the immune system could be the answer. The exciting thing is that scientists are already working on improved and promising new drugs that can improve many people's lives.
