1
Dustin Moll
ENG 105
May 1st 2009
Extended Argument
America's Toughest Sheriff
At the heart of an ongoing controversy that continues to receive national media coverage is a man named Joe Arpaio. As the sheriff of Maricopa County in Arizona for the past sixteen plus years, Sheriff Arpaio has earned the nickname "America's toughest sheriff" because of his "no nonsense" approach to law enforcement. Most recently he has been in the news defending his illegal immigrations policies that are being called racial profiling and unconstitutional, but this is not the first time Sheriff Arpaio has faced such criticism. Throughout his tenure as sheriff in Maricopa County, Sheriff Arpaio has been on the receiving end of both great praise and much criticism from groups of people that seem to either love him or hate him. There is a fine line Sheriff Arpaio pushes the limits of between fair and unfair, between constitutional and unconstitutional and between right and wrong that people must judge for themselves to decide if they are for, against, or somewhere in the middle when it comes to Sheriff Arpaio and his policies. This essay will provide the facts, both good and bad, for you the reader to take into consideration when forming an opinion about controversial topics such as Sheriff Arpaio's "Tent City", his illegal immigration policies and a few others that may be of interest.
2
Tent City
In response to a desperately overcrowded prison system, Sheriff Arpaio opened what is pictured above, commonly known as "Tent City" in 1993. Constructed under a very limited budget and with the use of surplus military tents from the Vietnam era, "Tent City" proved to be a practical and economical solution to the problem at hand. The initiative was so successful that two years later an addition to the original "Tent City" was opened that expanded the compound's capacity to two thousand inmates. (http://www.sheriffjoe.org)
In addition to saving taxpayers' money during the construction of tent city, Sheriff Arpaio continues to save money in every day operations. As he states in his first book "Sheriff Joe Arpaio, America's Toughest Sheriff" four hundred thousand dollars a year is saved by cutting out hot meals and serving bologna sandwiches, while another hundred thousand dollars is saved by not serving coffee. (Arpaio,6) Efforts like these to help sheriff Arpaio afford to keep his police departments properly manned under a very tight budget.
3
Another important idea that helps justify "Tent City" is the fact that people are sent to prison as a punishment, not a reward. Sheriff Arpaio says in his first book "you should never live better in jail than you do on the outside." (Arpaio,8) With that ideal in mind, Sheriff Arpaio has banned any form of pornography, he does not allowing cigarettes, he restricts cable television to the Disney channel, the weather channel, C-SPAN and ESPN and he issues the prisoners pink undergarments to wear under old fashioned black and white stripped uniforms. (Arpaio,9) Prisoners should view jail as a place they do not want to come back to rather than an improvement to their current situations on the outside. Sheriff Arpaio's "tent city" is designed and ran to help prisoners understand that idea.
Despite its ideal day to day operations and relatively low costs for a jail, Sheriff Arpaio's "tent city" receives criticism for being inhumane and cruel. In her book "Tent City Exposed", former prisoner Deborah Linden touches base on many of the aspects of "tent city" that many people find unacceptable. One of these points is that "tent city" is in a desert climate where temperatures reach above 115 degrees Fahrenheit and even hotter on the top bunks under the tents of "tent city". (Linden,43) The food served at "tent city" is described as "disgusting" and "barely enough to constitute a healthy diet". (Linden,65) The beds are described as uncomfortable with very limited personal space surrounding it and showers described in much the same manner.
While Deborah Linden's complaints seem to be the norm among prisoners at "tent city", she describes an environment that is fitting for a prison. There is no doubt that "tent city" is not a wonderful place to live, but like Sheriff Arpaio explains, jail is not meant to be a five star hotel
4
that caters to a prisoner's comforts. Jail is meant to be a punishment for people who commit a crime.
As for the hot temperatures experienced under the tents being cruel, Sheriff Arpaio has the perfect answer to those complaints. He says " Quit your complaining. Our military men and women fighting for you in Iraq and Afghanistan live in tents hotter than these..so shut your mouths." (www.sheriffjoe.org)
Illegal Immigration Policies
As mentioned earlier, Sheriff Arpaio's policies concerning illegal immigration are a hot top in the news today. Sheriff Arpaio has been organizing periodic sweeps throughout different areas in Maricopa County in search of illegal immigrants. These sweeps have angered a wide range of people from Mayors at the city level to member of Congress at the National level. An article from the New York Times on February fourteenth two thousand nine states that "members
5
of congress asked the Justice and Homeland Security Departments to investigate accusations that the sheriff has engaged in a pattern of racial profiling and other abuses against Latino residents." (Archibold,12) Then, as reported by Fox News, on April second two thousand nine, two House Judiciary subcommittees convened to discuss Sheriff Arpaio's alleged unconstitutional immigration enforcement tactics and did not invite Sheriff Arpaio to defend himself. (Controversial,1) Reports like these can be found weekly from various sources around the country.
With all the negative publicity and accusations building up, Sheriff Arpaio stands by his policies and continues to do what he believes is best for the county when it comes to illegal immigration. The foundation of all of his efforts is Section 287(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act that was put into law in 1996. Section 287(g) basically allows state and local law enforcement agencies to work with the Department of Homeland Security, which gives Sheriff Arpaio more authority to enforce immigration laws.(Arpaio's America) Select officers in Maricopa County receive training from a division of the Department of Homeland Security called ICE. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement division trains and certifies state and local law enforcement during a four week course to be able to properly question and process suspected illegal immigrants.(U.S. Immigrations)
There is no doubt that Sheriff Arpaio's policies on immigration are extreme, but he has made sure to stay within the boundaries of the law. All of the officers participating in his sweeps are very well train and understand what they can or cannot do in their efforts to battle illegal immigration. It would be nice if such extreme measures did not need to be taken, but as Sheriff
6
Arpaio explains in his latest book "Joe's Law", it has become a matter of National Security. Drug lords and gangs now control almost all trafficking of humans, drugs and weapons into the United States across the Arizona border. We cannot distinguish between the illegal immigrants that are just coming over for a better life and the criminals, so we must arrest them all.(Joe's Law,20).
Other Programs
While "tent city" and his illegal immigration policies are the two main reasons why Sheriff Arpaio is considered controversial, there are a few other programs he has instated that are worthy to take note of when forming an opinion about the Sheriff. First is the use of chain gangs, which Sheriff Arpaio started doing again in 1995 for males. In 1996 he started forming female chain gangs and chain gangs for minors so he would not be sued for discrimination. The chain gangs are completely voluntary, allowing prisoners to spend some time out of their cells or tents.(Arpaio,57) The use of inmates to perform jobs like trash pickup on the freeways helps save the county and keep the street clean.
7
Another forward thinking idea Sheriff Arpaio has made reality is what he calls "the posse". The posse is a completely volunteer group of people who assist the patrol deputies by providing back-up on dangerous calls, transport prisoners to jail, and provide traffic control at accident scenes. Posse members are also used to process paperwork for the Civil/Criminal Process Sections. (mcso.org/posse) With the formation of his posse, Sheriff Arpaio has found a way to help the community feel like they are doing their part in the fight against crime while providing his officers with the backup the occasionally may need.
The Maricopa County Sheriff's Office website itself is another great tool Sheriff Arpaio had introduced and made useful. From the site's homepage, people can search for outstands warrants, see if there are any registered sex offenders in their neighborhood and even report a crime. The website is easy to use and helps provide useful information to anyone who wants to find out more.(mcso.org)
Conclusion
Forming an opinion about Sheriff Joe Arpaio and his policies can be a difficult thing to do. There may be some policies you agree with Sheriff Arpaio about and others that you disagree with. The fact that he has held his position as Sheriff in Maricopa County for over sixteen years with an average approval rating of eighty percent is testament in itself that "America's toughest Sheriff" and his policies deserve respect.
8
