9
Dunn
Jonathan Dunn
Jacki Belknap
Eng 105-3
17 April 2009
That Call Can Wait!
Don't you hate it when someone is on the phone not paying attention to the road? Well, all that can change if the law for banned cell phones is enforced though out the United States. Those drivers hold up traffic, distract themselves, and worst of all increase the chances of causing an accident. Being on the phone is not worth risking someone else's life, let alone your own life. A study from the Harvard Center of Risk Analysis estimates that cell phone use while driving contributes to 6 percent of crashes. Froetscher's group says that translates to 636,000 crashes, 330,000 injuries and 2,600 deaths in the United States each year. It put the estimated annual financial cost of cell-phone-related crashes at $43 billion. Only some states have a ban on cell phones for drivers, for the states that do not ban cell phones, they should ban cell phone usage from teens 18 and under because the number one driving distraction for teen drivers are cell phones because they have grown up in the generation where technology has become a reliable source which means they are more likely to use the technology that is out there whenever and wherever. Cell phones should be banned from all drivers in every state in the United States.
People are impatient cannot wait to answer their cell phones. If it is so important that they need to answer their cell phone they should pull over and answer their call on the side of the street. Drivers do not realize that when they answer the phone on the road they are affecting other people too. When the cell phone user gets honked at while driving they get mad, honk back, and act like they are the ones that are not doing anything wrong.
Not using the phone will help drivers for their own convenience, such as missing exits on freeways, missing streets they have to turn on, and missing street signs. Also in some states you can avoid getting tickets. Fines for using cell phones while driving start around $20 for the drivers first offense, anything after that will be $50 for every repeated offense. Missing street signs can especially be dangerous, such as, stop signs, traffic lights or crosswalk signs, missing any of those signs can be fatal.
Drivers think that using a hands free device will reduce the distraction more than a hand held device. Hand free devices are just as distracting because you are into the conversation just as much as you are when using a hand held. Distraction from cell phone use while driving (hand held or hands free) extends a driver's reaction as much as having a blood alcohol concentration at the legal limit of .08% (University of Utah). Intense conversations can increase the chances of an accident even more; the driver is so focused on the conversation that he or she stops being aware of what is around him or her while driving.
Also, the law should be enforced to everyone; I have seen police officers on the phone while driving and that gives the wrong impression to drivers that it is ok to use the phone while they are driving. Cell phones should be banned from all drivers no matter who they are because everyone is just as likely to cause an accident while on the phone as anyone else.
Text messaging while driving is definitely more distracting than being on the phone. Text messaging requires you to take your eyes off of the road to read the messages, also while replying. But people do it so often that they do not need to look down while they are replying but still need to when they are reading the message. There was a recent incident that occurred in Los Angeles in the San Fernando valley where a train driver had been text messaging one of his friends when he missed a stop signal and went head on with another train that was coming through. The driver injured 135, hospitalized 81, and killed 25 people. Had he not been distracted from text messaging he would not have missed the stop signal and would have avoided the accident that unfortunately occurred. Text messaging while driving has recently become against law in some states, in California, it took affect January 1, 2009.
Anything that requires using a phone is distracting while driving. People, now, use the Internet from their phones and like to browse. Websites like Facebook are very popular, and people like to check their messages every so often. There is so much more to just talking on the phone that can distract drivers from the road. Today technology is getting more advanced that there is always something to new to do from your phone. We rely on technology so much that we use it whenever we get the chance even if its while we are driving.
People may argue, don't you need access to your phone at all times? In some states, cell phones are not allowed to be used while driving because it is a distraction to the driver and may cause accidents. Drivers think, just because they still have their eyes on the road they are still capable of driving but do not realize that they are just as impaired as a driver who has a .08% of alcohol in their system. People also argue that passengers are a distraction but cell phones have also been proven to be more of a distraction than passengers. Passengers can actually be a second pair of eyes for drivers, passengers can help point out hazards on the road for the driver. Personally I have done that hundreds of times. My mom is on the phone constantly, and in the city that we live in, Los Angeles, it can be very dangerous because the traffic is heavy. She has yet to understand what can happen to her when she is on the phone but I do not want to wait for something to happen for her to realize that she is not going to use the phone anymore while she is driving.
Cell phones have become a big part of our everyday life now days, almost everyone has a phone, and the majority of them are drivers. Despite the enforced laws, people still use their phones because they think it is a necessity and using a phone is such a habit that people forget that it is against the law to use the phone while driving. Drivers should not be able to use phones no matter the situation while driving. If it is that important they can pull over to the side and answer the phone.
Being a driver from California, one of the strictest states about using cell phones while driving, I have yet to have been pulled over for cell phone use. It is not fair to the people who get caught because there are just as many people out there on the phone not getting caught. The 405 is a major highway in Los Angeles, no matter what direction you look there is someone always on the phone. LA is the second biggest city in the United States and with that many drivers you can only imagine what the math is of how risky it is to drive on the 405. There needs to be a heavier watch on people who talk on the phone while driving. What about policemen? I have spotted them on the phone while driving, what makes them any different from anyone else on the road. They are setting examples for others, giving them the idea that it is ok to use cell phones while driving which would increase the number of people using phones and will create more accidents.
Cell phone usage while driving should be banned from driver in every state in this country. Why is it that some states do not enforce this law? In the chart below of a select few of states, shows which states prohibit or do not prohibit the type of cell phone use while driving. People may think cell phones should be allowed anywhere in case of emergencies. You never know when something really important might come up. Death is definitely at the top of the list. Someone close to you may be passing away and if you cannot pick up that phone you may not talk to that person ever again. But once again if the call is really important the driver can pull over to the side and answer the phone.
(Did not want to display all 50 states, thought it would be too much)
If you were a doctor, that phone call can mean someone's life, if you do not pick up the phone because you are afraid of getting a ticket that may cause someone's life that you could have saved. An emergency is an emergency and there is nothing you can do to prevent them from happening, but if you are driving and you get informed about an emergency there is something you can do to help the situation. But would picking up that phone call also cause someone's life. If you pick up the phone and get distracted from the road because of how serious the situation is, you may be more likely to cause an accident and who knows how bad the accident will be.
People need to use their cell phones at all times for their own convenience. If you have a meeting to go to and it gets canceled, you would not want to drive and arrive at the meeting then find out that it has been canceled. If you would have just picked up that phone call you would not have wasted time to drive all the way to the meeting just to find out that it has been canceled. Using the phone while driving for your own convenience is the last reason why drivers should be able to use their phone. The driver should know what the plan is even before he gets into the car.
Below is a chart of what people usually use their phones for. The top three reasons people use their cell phones are for business, family matters, and casual conversation. The easiest one to get rid of are casual conversations, the driver can easily put a casual conversation on hold and have that conversation later. Business conversations can be taken care of if you pull over, find out what the situation while you are pulled over so you do not have to pick the phone up again, get it all taken care of while pulled over. Appointments can easily be made before getting into the vehicle. Family matters can be anything, it can be having casual conversations with relatives or just everyday needs; going to the grocery store, picking up dinner, picking up a child from school etc., the list can go on forever and everything on that list can be handled before getting into the vehicle or can just wait until you have stepped out of the car. Using the phone for emergencies are the hardest ones to avoid because you never know when it something is going to happen. If the driver needs to report an emergency he or she can quickly pull over to the side of the road and make the phone call they need to make on the side of the road. Receiving an emergency can be difficult but can also be handled in a safe manner. If the driver happens to pick up the phone call he or she should pull over when ever it is possible to do so and continue the phone call.
Also, drivers are not always in the car alone, if there is a passenger available to take the call that would be the easiest way to handle any of these situations.
Cell phones are one of the top uses for contact; it is how everyone communicates. "It's estimated that 3. 3 billion people own a handset. That's 49% of the global population and that number is bound to go up!" (Chris). For people who drive all the time, it would be hard for them to stay in contact with people if they never answered a phone call or a text while they were driving. Just because using the phone while driving makes life easier does not make it ok to risk someone else's or your own life while you are using it.
Cell phones are a big part of our lives but does not mean we should use them while we are driving. Even though it is how we communicate and does make things simpler it is not worth risking someone else's life let alone your own life. Drivers do not think about the risk they are taking when on the phone while driving but always wait to realize it after the fact they have gotten into an accident. Cell phones should be banned from drivers because it is dangerous not matter the situation ad no matter how fast the conversation is, For any second the driver spends on the phone he or she is still 4 times more likely to cause an accident for that one second. Action needs to be taken now to prevent accidents from happening and not wait until an unfortunate event takes place to take action.
Bibliography
[Science Direct.com. March 2004. Elsevier B.V. April 14th 2009]
[Drivers.com. November 2008. PDE publications Inc. April 19, 2009.]
[landtransport.gov. April 11 2008. April 19, 2009]
[sciencedaily.com. January 1, 2008. Science Daily LLC. April 19, 2009]
[cnetnews.com. July 1, 2006. Interactive Inc. April 19, 2009]
[California Departmentof Motorvehicles.gov. July 1, 2008 State of California April 19, 2009]
[UNews. Utah.edu. June 29. 2006 University of Utah, April 19, 2009]
[Zanesvilletimerecords.com. April 19, 2009 Times Recorder April 19, 2009]
[reuters.com. January 12, 2009, Thomas Reuters. April 27]
