Max Block
27 April 2009
Jones
Extended Argument
The Benefits from Drilling
Drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge will benefit a multitude of people in numerous positive ways. The benefits outweigh the costs across the board. Economically, drilling will directly stimulate the markets, both locally and throughout the rest of the country and world. Allowing companies to drill will create up to 735,000 jobs, helping struggling community members keep afloat in these rocky economic times. The fact that more than 75% of Alaskans are in favor of the production and use of the land further supports the decision. Overall, the sooner we are able to begin drilling in ANWR, the sooner our country can receive benefits and continue upon our upward journey to prosperity.
ANWR is a national treasure which is not currently being taken advantage of. "The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a 19. 5 million acre area of land which holds an estimated 500 billion barrels of oil located in Northeastern Alaska"(Mc Carthy). Because of this vast amount of estimated oil, companies actively seek the rights to drill there. If the government allows the exploration and production of ANWR, the people of the United States, as well as the larger global economy, will benefit in numerous ways, but especially via the gas pump. Generations of enormous federal monies would provide a much needed boost in our current economic crisis. ANWR.org quotes, "Billions of dollars from bonus bids, lease rentals, royalties and taxes," will help stimulate markets worldwide, but most importantly for the US. The Office of Management and Budget as well as the Department of the Interior estimate "$4. 2 billion would be generated from bonus bids and an additional $152-237 billion from royalty and tax estimates in just the first 5 years of operations on ANWR"(DOT). These enormous sums of money will immediately begin to have positive benefits throughout the world-starting first with local Alaskans. Every resident of Alaska will receive an annual check of $1000 from the oil companies, ensuring the continued growth and prosperity of our nation's 49th state. This substantial increase in Alaska's economy will then directly stimulate the United States' larger economy leading to an upswing in the global economy. This one act, of beginning to productively use available land, will lead to global economic growth.
Job creation represents another important economic benefit from drilling on ANWR. "Between 250,000 and 735,000 ANWR jobs are estimated to be created by development of the Coastal Plain" (ANWR.com). Not only will those jobs positively improve over half a million people, but that number is exponentially increased when you consider all their kids, husbands, wives and family members who will also be benefitted.
Drilling will be the superior choice in ANWR in the future because our economy will be extremely stimulated with a jewel like oil causing America's economy to be cheaper and cleaner. With a booming economy produced by the results, not only Alaska with prosper greatly, but America will be motivated to become the strongest country yet again. Since our economy went spiraling down from a recession to depression, imported oil is rising enormously:
"In 2007, the US imported an average of 60% of its oil and during certain months up to 64%. That equates to over $330 billion in oil imports. That's $37. 75 million per hour gone out of our economy. Factor in the cost to defend our imported oil, and the costs in jobs and industry sent abroad, the total would be nearly a trillion dollars" (ANWR.com).
$37. 75 million per hour gone out of our economy is a ridiculous amount of wasted money Americans need floating back in our economy, that is what defines America, the strongest economy in the world. If Congress passes operations, production, and exploration in ANWR this country will soon become the strongest economy once again.
ANWR faces tough debate in the Senate to determine whether it should be opened for oil drilling. The debated area and primary focus for Congress along with oil drilling companies is called the "1002 area" (Bird). The 1002 area is located inside of ANWR and is a 1. 5 million acre coastal plain. The Department of the Interior's 1987 resource evaluation estimated that a "super field" (a huge underground "tank") had 500 billion barrels of oil. This oil theoretically is waiting to be utilized and produced.
Alaskan oil companies have promised a small fraction of the profits to go back to every man, woman and child of Alaska in a total of around one thousand dollars per person a year if they could proceed drilling. The reason that seventy five percent of Alaskans are for drilling is because they get a thousand dollar check in the mail every year from oil companies such as Chevron, Exxon Mobil, Phillips Petroleum, and BP Amoco. Transportation of oil is a very dangerous task. "Four of the oil industries largest companies, BP Amoco, Exxon Mobil, Chevron, and Phillips Petroleum, have cumulatively spent over $1 billion dollars in fines, penalties, and settlements" (Cable). Spills are accidents that happen, unfortunately. However, improvements can be made to have the least possible risk for oil spills. ANWR oil would legitimately decrease the risk of oil spills because Americans would only have to transport a short distance. Instead of from Iraq, Americans would simply move North East to ANWR.
There are many other reasons people are pro drilling in ANWR. Only eight percent of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge would be considered for exploration. Only the one and a half million acre, or eight percent, of the northern coast of ANWR is being considered for development. The remaining seventeen and a half million or ninety two percent of ANWR will remain permanently closed to any kind of development. If oil is discovered, less than two thousand acres of the over one and a half million acres of the coastal plain would be affected. That is less than half of one percent of ANWR that would be affected by production activity. This fraction is a great benefit to America and the world because it will help our economy exponentially, and leave ANWR a pristine, tranquil, and beautiful area.
The main concern that people don't want to drill in ANWR is the environmental impact. ANWR has a unique wildlife that will never return back to its natural habitat and of course the pollution for global warming. However ANWR.com says otherwise, "Oil and gas development and wildlife are coexisting in Alaska's arctic. For example, the Central Arctic Caribou Herd (CACH) which migrates through Prudhoe Bay has grown from three thousand animals to its current level of thirty two thousand animals. The arctic oil fields have very healthy brown bear, fox and bird populations equal to their surrounding areas" (ANWR.com). Positive insights like these help the cause for drilling in ANWR. "Advanced technology has greatly reduced the 'footprint' of arctic oil development in ANWR" (anwr.org/techno/drilling.htm). With advanced technology in the Arctic our footprints in ANWR would be greatly reduced.
In general, when people think of oil drilling, they think of killing the environment and global warming. However, through "tube rotary drilling," (Wilson) it involves a new well to be drilled through the production tubing of an older well. Because the old tubing does not need to be pulled out of the ground by a drilling rig, the technique saves time and money and it is extremely effective in reducing the amount of pollution going into the air. The potential savings is to save up to one million dollars per well. ANWR oil could provide an additional 30 to 50 years of reliable supply. Natural gas, produced with the oil, could be reinvested or added to a new gas pipeline originating in Prudhoe Bay.
Animals are a very sensitive subject in the debate. ANWR.org states, "Petroleum development at Prudhoe Bay has not negatively affected wildlife. For instance, the Central Arctic caribou herd is at home with pipeline facilities and has grown from 3,000 to as high as 27,100 in the last 20 years. Drilling activity in ANWR would be limited to winter months when wildlife does not frequent the coastal plain" (ANWR). Overall, it is a win-win opportunity. The oil companies would need to enforce cleanliness as much as possible. Wildlife in ANWR is a rarity in the cold winter months; it increasingly minimizes the wildlife predicament in ANWR.
American society drives vehicles more frequently than any other country. "Americans spend about two hours a day in a car" (pubs.usgs.gov). Americans need oil especially since we are at war with Iraq, where we get most of our oil. "Societal dependence on oil leads to increasingly negative social consequences throughout the world, including climate change, air pollution, political and economic instability, and habitat degradation" (CJO). Retrieving the oil out of ANWR and working it into our economy, and ultimately the world's economy, is the best decision in the long term investment.
Admittedly, extracting economically recoverable oil from ANWR has many benefits. If oil companies get approval from the Senate, oil production would not even begin for at least seven to twelve years. After those seven to twelve years, prices at the pump may start to drop increasingly. Assuming these oil companies will be in need of employees, 250,000 to 735,000 jobs may be created. In this economy, 750,000 jobs would almost heal our recession. Energy Information Administration, or EIA, said that if Congress gave the go-ahead to pump oil from Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, the oil could begin flowing by 2013 and reach a peak of 876,000 barrels a day by 2025. According to the Department of Energy 20 million barrels of oil per day are being consumed by America. Of that, about 45 percent is used for motor gasoline. The rest is used for distillate fuel oil, jet fuel, residual fuel and other oils. Each barrel of oil contains 42 gallons, which yields 19 to 20 gallons of gasoline. In the United States, 178 million gallons of gasoline is consumed every day. Drilling in ANWR would help America's dependence on oil, and the struggle of money being wasted away at the gas pump would scarcely be a quandary.
The choice to drill for oil in Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is inevitably clear, drill. Drilling will create up to 750,000 jobs for Alaskan's and Americans. The economy would be directly stimulated and brought back to its flourishing life. The danger in hurting the environment is a fraction of what it could be without the tube pipes being pulled from the ground. Technological advances prove decrease in pollution for the environment. Oil corporations would only drill in the winter months when animals are rarely seen in the eight percent on ANWR that is actually being drilled. Technological advances will also cause a safe environment for transportation in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Overall, the decision is well thought out and ready to be passed in congress. Congress should pass exploration, production, and drilling in ANWR, it is credibly clear to drill for oil in ANWR. The risks are minimal and the rewards are vast in drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
The point that the image above is pointing to, is what is going to be considered for drilling. 2000 acres out of 19 million acres of land. Win-win opportunity for everyone.
