Grant Studer
4/28/09
English 105
Extended Argument Paper
An Equal Access to Music For All
On May 31st, 2009, the Flagstaff Unified School district gave non-renewal of contract notices to a portion of the teachers in it's district. In recent state senate sessions, the government chose to cut a large part of the educational budget for the state of Arizona. Many people find this unsurprising, with the strong low-tax republican bias and large state budget deficit, combined with an Economic recession. In the southern part of our state, the Tucson Unified School District approved reduction in force for 500 teachers. Reduction in Force Notices were given delivered to these teachers based on their tenure in the system. Teachers who had taught for three consecutive years in the district were offered to renew their contracts, while newer teachers were informed they would not have jobs. The school board in Flagstaff sung a bit of a different tune last month. In the Flagstaff Unified School District, the school board decided to respond to these budget issues by cutting teachers of physical education, visual arts, dance, and music. All teachers in these fields tentatively do not have jobs secured for next year.
While some of these teachers will be rehired to their old jobs, or other jobs within the district, the school board would only issue Non-renewal of contract notices because they want to eliminate positions. In an interview with former FUSD music teacher Mark Falzarano, he said "I think it is highly questionable when curricular areas with state and national standards such as music, art and physical education are cut when extra curricular programs such as football, baseball, cross country and others are still existent." (Mark Flazarno). The situation in Flagstaff, as Mr. Falzarano put it, is "questionable" indeed. These questionable priorities of public school administrations commonly put other subjects, and non-subjects ahead of music. Sadly, this situation is unsurprising. All around the country, music
Studer 2
education has declined in recent years.
The shrinking-music program epidemic doesn't just afflict the Arizona School Systems. Music for All, an organization focused primarily on advocacy and promoting music education in public schools, published a study entitled "The Sound of Silence: The Unprecedented Decline of Music Education in California Public Schools: A statistical review". Between 1999 and 2004, one in every four music educators in California lost their jobs, with over a thousand teaching positions removed in those four academic years. Californias' pubic school enrollment has only gone up in recent years, and yet music declines in the state. While this trend exists nationally, this article sums the issue up best:
" The reductions in the percentage of students involved in music, the actual number of students involved with music, and the number of teachers significantly exceed all other subject areas. Reductions to music education programs in California have been disproportionate when compared to all other subjects."
It appears that the situation and access to music education nationwide may in fact be "questionable". So the questions stand: Why is it that the arts, and music in particular, are continually under fire and in danger in Americas public school system? Even though No Child Left Behind deems "Liberal Arts" a part of any education, why does music keep getting ignored and pushed to the side, and cut? If so many schools and districts jump to make these cuts, then why do the proponents of music as a part of a well-rounded education fight so vehemently? What can a strong musical curriculum offer our students academically? What can musical performance give our students that they can get anywhere else?
Study in music helps to further other academic success. Music performance teaches discipline, teamwork, leadership, and other valuable life skills. Music also immerses mankind in everything we do, and musical performance provides the opportunity to create, understand, connect, and feel in a way that nothing else does. I feel that every student should have equal access to music education as a part of
Studer 3
a well rounded public-school curriculum.
From Marching Band to Mathematics
Due to the fact that critics of music have attacked its existence in the public schools for many years, music has developed a strong advocacy group in response. Organizations such as NAMM (formerly the National Association of Music Merchants), Music For All, and MENC: The National Organization For Music Education (formerly Music Educators National Conference) all spend significant amounts of time and energy on advocacy to keep music in the public school system. In order to justify their jobs and existence as a part of children's lives, music advocates constantly find research to link the correlations between music and academic success. A wealth of information exists on the subject, as follows.
Music at an early age has shown innumerable benefits for its students. Researchers at The University of Texas, Austin performed one study that showed some of the most basic benefits of musical training. One group of students, ages 4-6, received weekly piano instruction for two years, while the other group received no musical training. The researchers tested the motor skills of all students before and after, and the students with piano instruction showed a significant improvement in motor skills over those without. (Costa-Giomi 1) By signing their children up to participate piano lessons, parents have the opportunity to speed up the development and coordination of their children. In a study published in The Neurological Research Journal, a group of second graders with basic math classes augmented with piano training showed twenty-seven percent higher scores on curricular math tests than those students with no musical training (Graziano 1). Not only does early study of music help rapidly develop coordination and motor skills, but studies also link it to higher academic achievement at an early level. Starting children in music early starts children on a path for academic success early. While studies show the impact of music at an early age, the benefits continued participation in music performance continue to grow with the children.
Studer 4
In an era of No Child Left Behind, AIMS, SATs and ACTs, administrations and different levels of government place a higher emphasis on standardized testing. School evaluation and funding comes from student placement and performance on these tests. Many teachers feel it necessary to spend more time teaching the materials from the test to ensure student success, because greater student test scores lead to more funding for schools. At this point you might be wondering what this has to do with my introduction, what does this have to do with music? The College Entrance Examination Board compiled a study of all students who took the SAT test in 2001. On average, students with an active involvement in music as a part of their high school curriculum scored almost 100 points higher than students with no musical education. (College Board 1) No after school prep program or review book shows as unanimous an advantage as an education in the musical arts, specifically performance. Musical training and performance doesn't teach sentence structure, alliteration, or about the great classics in literature. Yet, on average, music students scored 57 points higher than non music students on the verbal portion of their Student Aptitude Test. The math involved in music performance remains relatively simple, with very little mathematical skill besides basic counting required for musical performance. High school music curriculum involves no long division, no Pythagorean theorem, and no slope-intercept form, and somehow musically involved students, on average, score 41 points higher than students with no musical involvement. Statistically, students involved in music score higher on standardized tests. If all parents, teachers, and administrators knew that their child could increase their chances for getting into college just by signing up for choir, orchestra, or band their freshman year and sticking with it, would it seem logical for them to cut these programs so quickly and readily? What if these correlations didn't end in high school?
The correlation between outside academic success and music doesn't end in twelfth grade. Students involved in music at a collegiate level achieve higher levels of success in some of the most difficult academic fields. Phi Delta Kappan, the professional print journal for education, published an
Studer 5
article entitled "The Case For Music In The Schools". Biologist and physician Lewis Thomas sampled all of the undergraduate majors of students who applied to attend any medical school in the United States. You might find the results quite surprising. "66% of music majors who applied to medical school were admitted, the highest percentage of any group. 44% of biochemistry majors were admitted." (Thomas 27) By spending four years studying music at a collegiate level, students have a higher probability of entering medical school than students who spend their undergraduate career studying things directly related to their future career. How does that happen?
Besides helping student succeed in the classroom, the benefits of music education extend to impact income levels of students involved in music education. In a survey of over 2,500 Americans who had music as a part of their education, thirteen percent of those who now make over $75,000 a year reported less than one year involved in music. Of that same group, fifty-two per cent reported having between one and five years of music (Harris 2). More music means a higher probability of earning more money.
In that same report, seventy percent of former music students said that music was influential on their later lives in regards to study habits, discipline, and teamwork. Music students later in life appreciate the secondary lessons they learn from music, and often have higher household incomes and overall life fulfillment. How can something as simple as reading and playing a series of notes have such an impact on overall career, financial, and academic success?
These previous examples defy basic logic, when looked at on the most simple levels. Working a
Studer 6
part time retail job through school won't help a student become better in science class, just like running on a track team won't have a statistical probability of raising your grade in math. Consistent studies in music, though not directly related to these curricular areas, have consistently shown better academic performance in many areas. How does music impact these areas so regularly, in such a measurable manner? What does music do that impacts how well a student performs academically? In his book This is Your Brain on Music, Author Daniel J. Levitin explains one possible answer:
"Through studies of people with brain damage, we've seen patients who have lost the ability to read a newspaper but can still read music, or individuals who can play the piano but lack the motor coordination to to button their own sweater. Music listening, performance, and composition engage nearly every area of the brain we have so far identified, and involve nearly every neural subsystem" (Levetin 9)
Simply put, the act of creating music activates more parts of your brain than any other single activity one could engage in. Now, imagine how much more the brain lights up when adding in show-choir choreography, or moving complex drill formations during marching band. Educators seem to always be searching for new ways to engage students, and I beg the question: what better way to engage a student than in activities that have been scientifically proven to activate more of their brains than any other thing on the planet?
Music stimulates the brain in ways that nothing else does, and the results have been documented and explained above. Musicians have found a way to justify their existence to the non-musical community. Music for the sake of better learning. Music for the sake of higher test scores. Music for the sake of social well-rounding, discipline, etc etc. But what of music for the purest reasons? What of music as an art form, just because music is?
The Universal Language
Music doesn't just help test scores, music helps the soul. Many educators speak on the
Studer 7
secondary curriculum taught in the core subject areas of our school systems. Music performance involves its own secondary values granted to students as well. Bill Clinton, an avid saxophone player and former president of the United States has this to say on the subject: "Music is about communication, creativity, and cooperation, and by studying music in school, students have the opportunity to build on these skills, enrich their lives, and experience the world from a new perspective." (Clinton) In what other classroom do students receive instruction on these areas, and an ability to refine these skills in a constantly changing, challenging setting every day? While many high school sport teams do rely heavily on teamwork and cooperation, most high school sports teams exist on a tryout-only basis. Music programs accept anyone, don't make cuts, and still stimulate personal growth and achievement, and a sense of pride.
Music has evolved and grown with human beings. Historically, love of music dates back as far as history does, and an appreciation for the art form has been documented almost as far back as the concept of human thought has. Plato, a man considered by many the first philosopher in western thought, said this of music: "Music is a moral law. It gives soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and charm and gaiety to life and to everything." Over two thousand years after this man lived, this quote still rings true to musical performers, teachers, and even appreciators today. By simply putting on a CD, playing an MP3 off of their computer, or singing a tune they know, the average human being can feel and understand the experiences of others in a way that transcends mere written or spoken words. Famous American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow restated this concept when he said "Music is the universal language of mankind". Historically, through the ages, man has shown a love for what music allows us to feel and understand about each other. Why would we allow something a frivolous as budget cuts to affect a child's access to something so divine, something so transcendental of normal bounds of communication and life?
What about the act of music making, and the affect it has on performers? Part of the process of
Studer 8
making music in a large ensemble requires an absolute selflessness and understanding on behalf of each musician. While organized sports teach aspects of teamwork, no where in an athletic context is an attempt to get anywhere between seventy and two hundred people thinking, watching, creating, and feeling on the exact same level for the exact same moment in time. Ryan Springler, a philosophy student, composer, and multi-faceted music performer reflected on his experiences with one ensemble: "[music] lets us live out this epic story, to be our own champion, and to hunt great beasts in a world that would rather pretend they don't exist. For one short summer we become heroes, and we do it together." By performing music in an ensemble, musicians have a rare opportunity; to emotionally and mentally become a part of something much larger than themselves, and to create on a level impossible for a single person on his or her own. Simultaneously, each student must contribute fully and completely, and an ensemble missing a performer feels different. Every student knows that the whole doesn't make sense without them, and therefore music performance teaches both teamwork and individual responsibility and self-value.
Again and again, across centuries and across humanity, music proves itself unlike anything else human beings can experience. In study after study, music proves its ability to help with academic success for students, regardless of socio-economic background of geographical location. Yet, consistently, music programs go up on the chopping block quickly when it comes time to balance a school district's budget.
I will finish this with a brief anecdote about my own personal experiences in writing this paper. I'm currently enrolled as a music major, and due to the time-intensive nature and exclusive curriculum of our degree, the major-specific social circles start early. In passing, I've casually discovered at least six fellow students who are writing final semester papers on music education on some level or another. These students also sign up for a minimum of five classes every semester for their first four and a half years of college, until they student teach, in order to enter a shrinking job market for pay that
Studer 9
consistently falls short considering the level of expertise required in our field. Why would we do these
things to ourselves? Because we care about future students, and we know what music can do for them, because of what music has done for us in our lives. We understand what music can do, what music can bring out in everyone, and we want to share these indescribable experiences and this passion for music with the children of tomorrow. German Philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche once wrote: "Without music, Life would be a mistake." (Neitsche 7) As future teachers, we will continue to fight the possibility of lives lived in error, without given an ample opportunity to partake in the joy that is music.
