Ben Sattler
April 29th 2009
Extended argument: Skateboarding
English 105
Skateboarding: Mainstream Sport???
Although skateboarding has become a very popular sport throughout the decades, and especially now, there is much more then just meets the eye. For anyone who is not familiar with th art of skateboarding, the subtleties are completely lost and much of the rich history goes unnoticed as well as the brutal controversies which continue to divide the world of skateboarders.
When you see a skateboarder rolling down the sidewalk, it may be someone who is simply trying to get from point A to point B. The use of skateboards as simple modes of transportation is a relatively new idea within the realm of skateboarding and has significant pull in the mainstream aspect of skateboarding. Because for many years, skateboarder have been stereotypically punks and rebels who had no concern for the law and often but heads with the law due to trespassing and graffiti laws. However, with the new generation of youth using skateboards as a quicker alternative to walking, it is hard to substantiate such strict laws against this group. Yet, when you see the skater who was just rolling by see to defy gravity by performing a a kickflip on the flat surface of the cement. To the untrained eye, this maneuver seems almost impossible and looks to break all of Newton's laws of gravity. Although the physics of this skateboarding trick are complicated, they are indeed working in the way they are supposed to. A simple explanation would show that in order to elevate the skateboard, the rider must first push the tail end of the skateboard down in a quick motion, and while the skateboard becomes nearly perpendicular with the ground, and with the same quick motion, the rider pulls up with his/her front foot, and then back down and towards him/her in a circular motion causing the flip part, and with proper rotation, the board should spin a complete 360 degrees and the rider should safely land on top. All of these complicated physics for such a stereotypically "uneducated" society.
Skateboarding is a sport which has been around since the 1950's. It was born from surfers who desired to continue surfing out of water. Although there is no one person cited with the invention or creation of the skateboard, throughout the early years there are some very prominent figures. Some of these early skaters include Torger Johnson, Woody Woodward and Danny Berer, all of whom were salmon and freestyle riders. These styles of riding are much different then the kind of skateboarding going on today. As Steve Cave, a publish author of skateboarding articles and nationally recognized video game critic, says this kind of riding looked "more like dancing ballet or ice skating with a skateboard." It wasn't until the mid 60's when much of the hype behind skating simply died and many of the companies who were creating skateboard, went bankrupt. For the next couple of years, those who wanted to continue skating were forced to make their own boards and search far and wide for usable parts. And then, as Steve Cave notes, in 1972 Frank Nasworthy invented urethane skateboard wheels, which are similar to what most skaters use today. His company was called Cadillac Wheels and this revived to world of skating and eventually extended to sport past its popularity it had in the early 1960's. It wasn't until a skateboarding competition in the mid 70's when the Zephyr Team showed up in Del Mar, that skateboarding took a turn towards what is today. The Zephyr Team was composed of six or seven kids, many of whom have continued to be significant figures in skating to this day, who "rode their boards like no one had in the public eye, low and smooth, and skateboarding was taken from being a hobby to something serious and exciting"(Cave 1). Three of the more notable members of the Zephyr Team include, Tony Alva and Stacy Peralta. Both of whom created their own skateboard companies. Peralta Boards is the company in which signed Tony Hawk, who is often time cited as the best, and most famous skater in the world.
All of this history, brings us to the current world of skateboarding. A multi-million dollar industry which is still being shaped by society. The commercial market is constantly being flooded with new products for skaters, some more mainstream then others. An example of the difference in products and purpose is obvious and can be demonstrated by examining different skateboard company brands. For example, small skateshops such as STARR SKATE in Tucson, Arizona in which you buy all the pieces separately. This give the buyer the ability to customize their board all the way down to designs cut into the black grip tape on top of the board. However, the downside of a board setup such as this is that it will end up costing around $150 total, where as a buyer who is not as motivated or able to spend that kind of money can purchase a pre-made combination for around $30. However, there is a significant quality difference between the two, and although a cheap generic board for $30, which could probably be bought at Wal-Mart, seems more practical, it is almost worthless for anything but riding around on.
This is where the rift between skating mentalities begins. There are two main distinctions of skaters, there is the hardcore mentality which incorporates much of the same ideals as those who began the skateboard revolution in the early seventies. They embody the passion for breaking the rules and going where they shouldn't. They live by the theme "skating is not a crime," and many times have run ins with the law. And then one the opposite side of spectrum, there are the mainstream skaters. A perfect example of this sect of skaters is the famous Ryan Sheckler. He is many times criticized for selling out to commercial world and stealing the essence of what skateboarding was originally created on. Much like actors, in which Sheckler technically could be classified as due to his popular show on MTV, he has done commercials from Pro Active acne treatment to promotions for clothing companies. He as attracted numerous fans to his events, fans who otherwise would have no interest in skateboarding. Just as Allison Glock of ESPN the Magazine notes, "He has a fan base of girls. That's a first for skateboarders." "At events, Sheckler's supporters are obvious: the young, pretty ones who pack the stands, squeal with delight at deafening decibels while he rides, then leave after they see him change his shirt. Ryan is the first legitimate teenage heartthrob in our industry," says Macdonald, who is Ryan Shecklers manager.. "People who watch him aren't skateboarding fans, they're Ryan Sheckler fans."
However, there are countless other "hardcore" skaters who loath these celebrities among their ranks. They are the ones who maintain their ideals of rebellion and anti establishment, unless it is a independent skate shop. As previously mentioned, these skaters often times have bad reputations with law enforcement and private security in regards to trespassing and vandalism. Although not inherently bad natured, many of the urban skaters who turn stair rails into grind spots do not leave the area in as good of condition as it was before. It if for this reason many large corporate complexes, schools, malls, ect. . . have installed skate blocks, which prevent a board from sliding across the surface of the edge of it. This act is specifically designed to deter skateboarders away from the area, thus creating tension between the two factions, mainstream society and skaters. Although this nostalgic sense of rebellion from the past is unnecessary, it in many times plays a critical part in the way in which individuals skate.
Every single skater has his or her own technique that comes our during ones skating. To some people, it is simply an art, and their technique is very well versed within this idea. Their skating consists of many easier tricks, which flow well together and seem effortless. Where as others focus on technique and their skating consists of well thought out trick sequences which could possibly take thirty tries before it is completely fully. However, for these rebel skaters it all has to do with their feelings and what they are trying to express. As Mary Bucholtz at UC Santa Barbara states, these nostalgic ideals "give rise to a still-thriving cross-cultural approach to adolescence as a life stage. Yet the emphasis on adolescence as a staging ground for integration in to the adult community often obscures young people's own cultural agency or frames it solely in relation to adult concerns." Thus widening the gap between the youth and the enforcers of the laws.
However, this is not the only non-mainstream rift of skaters out there. There are those who believe that although skateboarding is becoming a mainstream sport, it will never be the same as basketball or tennis or anything else like those. I am also an advocate to this position and feel that skateboarding has come a long way since its initial birth in the 50's and subsequent rebirths since. There is a definite market in our capitalist society for a mainstream sporting activity in which millions of people across the world take part in. Just as Bodhi, a member of the "Thrasher Magazine Blog" states, "Having a skateboard may be mainstream, but being a skateboarder is not." This is a perfect example where the world of skateboarding is going. Although it may be becoming a mainstream activity for the "cool kids" to do, there is a definite culture that one can find if looking in the right places. Few self-respecting skaters who belong to this would ever adorn Nike SB (Skateboard) shoes, however, Nike is making a killing in the shoe market with this addition to their footwear conglomerate. They are making their sales out of their stores, and other larger but much more neutral outlets, such as Zumiez (Phil Knight 6). Zumiez being one of the only skate shops seen nationally, especially inside of major shopping malls. However, you cannot even order Nike SB shoes at small skate shops such as STARR SKATE. This shows the paralles between someone buying skate apparel at a Target in comparison to a legitimate skate shop.
Although all skaters share a common bond and love for the sport, however big or small, just like any widespread culture, there are going to be separate factions and people on opposite ends of the ideological spectrum. There are those who wouldn't like to associate with the other member or the skateboarding culture because they don't embody the same traits, those being the hardcore skaters. And then there are those who do everything to try and be like everyone else because of what they represent, however the commitment needed is not there, these being the mainstream skaters. However, I feel that the ones leading the back and making skateboarding what it really is, and what it will continue to be are those in the middle. The skaters who realized they need aspects of both extremes to maintain any forward momentum. These are the ones you will not see advertising Chapstick, however you will not see them spray painting over a "No Skateboarding Allowed" sign. These are the skaters that are prevelent and are making the sport what it is.
WORK CITED
Bucholtz, Mary. "Youth and Culture Practice." Canadian Journal of Education. 14 June 2002. 28 Apr. 2009 <www.jstor.org/stable/4132891 >
Cave, Steve. "Skateboarding: A Brief History." Skateboarding | Skateboard trick tips, pro skaters, skateboard reviews, skateboard help and more about skateboarding!. 1 May 2009 <http:// skateboard.about.com/cs/boardscience/a/brief_history_3.htm>.
CNN - CNN - Extreme sports diving into mainstream - November 30, 1998." CNN.com International - Breaking, World, Business, Sports, Entertainment and Video News. 30 Nov. 1998. 1 May 2009 <http://edition.cnn.com/SHOWBIZ/TV/9811/30/extreme.sports/index.html>.
Glock, Allison. "JUST ANOTHER LONELY MILLIONAIRE SKATEBOARDER - ESPN The Magazine." ESPN: The Worldwide Leader In Sports. 1 May 2009 <http://sports.espn.go.com/espnmag/story?id=3492225>
Has MTV Hurt Ryan Sheckler? - Skate - Lat34.com." Lat34.com - Action Sports News and Video: Skateboarding , Snowboarding, BMX and Moto . 22 Nov. 2007. 1 May 2009 <http://www.lat34.com/skate/has_mtv_hurt_ryan_sheckler.htm>
Kansas City Star. "Mainstream America rolling along with skateboarding." ushistory.org. 1 May 2009 <http://www.ushistory.org/lovepark
Kelly, Deirdre. "Canadian Journal of Education." Frame Work: Helping Youth Counter Their Misrepresentations in Media . 27 Apr. 2009 <www.jstor.org/stable/20054145 >.
"Skateboarding exec to lead new Nike sports culture initiative | Sublimited Skateboard Blog." Skateboard Business Blog. 1 May 2009 <http://www.sublimited.net/skateboard-industry- news/skateboarding-exec-to-lead-new-nike-sports-culture-initiative.html>.
"The Future of Skateboarding." Free Articles Directory | Submit Articles - Articles Base.com. 31 Oct. 2008. 1 May 2009 <http://www.articlesbase.com/aerobics-articles/the-future-of- skateboarding-623475.html>.
Tolme, Paul. "Skateboarding Goes Mainstream | Article from AP Online | High Beam Research." Research - Articles - Journals | Find research fast at High Beam Research. 1 May 2009 <http:// www.highbeam.com/doc/1P1-26448653.html>
