Brandon Brothers
4/24/2009
ENG 105
Extended Argument
The Psychology of Videogames
In our current age, videogames are more popular than ever. Numerous companies have invested in this trend, and it seems as though the popularity is continuing to grow. With this in mind, it is easy to understand why videogames are being put under extensive research. The most common research being conducted on videogames are that of the psychology involved in the videogames themselves, moral aspects which invoke response during videogame play, and the behavioral issues associated with videogame play.
Though some would consider videogames mindless entertainment, there is a lot of psychology inherent in the videogame and involving the videogamer. The numerous different genres of videogames have also shed light on the numerous psychological aspects instilled into the game. Tetris, for example, is a puzzle game which is mostly analytical of a person's cognitive skill to place the Tetris blocks in geometric sequence to form a solid row, while making concessions of space to future pieces. Puzzle games such as Tetris involve different psychological elements than the first-person shooter genre does. As explained by Paul Budra:
First-person shooters, on the other hand, have a succession of immediate goals: to kill the enemies without being killed, to move to the next level, to kill the final enemy. Since the avatar of a first-person shooter moves in a world of constant conflict, those goals are successive and, in most games, escalating. These games also contain characters: the avatar which the player controls, the various enemies, and in more sophisticated games, other characters with whom the avatar may interact. (Budra 4)
The psychology most involved in first-person shooter games is the sense of player involvement and immersion into the game. The player is given control of an avatar, of whom we can mostly only see the hand of which on screen holding a weapon, and given the mission to undertake whatever the tasks assigned to him/her may be. First-person shooter games unfold in real time, and most of the actions of the avatar (e.g. reloading a weapon, using computer terminals, etc) are performed at humanly impossible speeds. The coupling of these concepts gives the player a sense of urgency and utmost importance, as though the smallest side-tracking or waste of time could result in his/her demise or failure of the mission.
Another game genre which includes a large psychological involvement is that of real time strategy games. In real time strategy games, players are given control of a civilization of sorts and given a set of tasks to complete to move onto the next level. This genre of videogame shares the aspect of the importance on player's actions, as in the first-person shooter genre. The psychological aspect of player control is the most prevalent in the genre of real time strategy. As the game is unfolding in real time, it causes the player to prioritize what objectives need to be accomplished first and to what importance certain elements pertain to them. Personal strategic analysis is also inherent in the game, through examining of why a player succeeded or failed at a certain objective.
One of the darker aspects behind the psychological aspects of videogames is the addictive nature of some games. Videogames are a great source of entertainment and escape from the real world. However, some people abuse this aspect to make videogames their addiction. In order to feel good, gamers begin investing more into their fake "game life", which they have more control over than their real life. According to Keith Bakker, director of the videogame addictions clinic in Amsterdam, "sociologists are seeing more situations where these people have been playing games for hours and hours and hours, and they were ruining things in their life that they used to have" (http://www.themanitoban.com). There have been numerous cases in which people who have become addicted to videogames have gotten fired from their jobs due to absenteeism, lost husbands or wives due to lack of attention, or even lost their own lives because of neglecting their own personal needs (i.e. nutrition, hydration, etc.) in favor of the needs of their gaming avatar.
Videogames are built around the premise of completing objectives and advancing one's own position in the game. While it can be said that videogames ".stimulate learning of facts and skills such as strategic reflection, creativity, cooperation and a sense of innovation" through gameplay, they can also be a corrupting agent based on what the objective the player is trying to accomplish (http://find.galegroup.com). In the videogame Grand Theft Auto 3, you are given control of the main criminal protagonist. Throughout the game, most of your objectives are based around performing a myriad of crimes to increase your wealth and status. In one particular instance, as explained by Grant Tavinor in his gaming experience with Grand Theft Auto 3, the player drives up to a prostitute, ushers her into the car with a lewd comment, and drives into a dark alley with the prostitute. The car begins to shake, simulating a sexual experience, while the player's health increases and money decreases. After the sexual act, the prostitute will leave the car. The player can at this point mug the aforementioned prostitute to recollect the money spent on her "services". (http://z3950.muse.jhu.edu) While this seems like a completely appalling sequence of events, the environment of the game would seem to advocates such behavior.
Though not all games advocate morally corrupt action, most games do offer a sense of freedom to allow for such behavior. As explained by Peter Buse, "rather than thinking of video games as machines with manipulative capacities, "minds of their own", it might be more useful to see them as narrative machines, providing for their players stories in which to participate" (Buse 165). With Buse's explanation, he provides the concession that the videogame is not solely responsible for what positive or negative actions the player commands the character to do, even if the environment of the game would show him that such things were an available option.
Freedom in the videogame world is often directly proportional to how expansive and real the videogame world is made to seem. As explained by Wolf:
One of the many phenomena shared by film and video games, for example, is the use of on-screen and off-screen space in the creation of a diegetic world. Most games, like films, contain scenes or locations inhabited by goal-oriented characters who are subject to certain "rules" of behavior. Whether characters are represented by high-resolution photographic images or a few colored squares, basic narrative roles and functions (protagonist, antagonist, obstacles, arena of conflict, etc.) are still present. The added elements of navigation and interaction, however, lend an importance to the diegetic space which is unlike that found in film or television. (Wolf 12)
With all of these combined elements, a player can fully immerse his/herself in a realm where complete self expression is possible.
Many behavioral issues can be traced back to videogames in young people. Most studies have shown a broad variety of results. In the study conducted by Kathy Sanford and Leanna Madill, young males were tested for behavior responses after exposure to videogames. In their study, Sanford and Madill report, "the male youth in our study used video games to resist institutional authority, hegemonic masculinity, and femininity" (Sanford 287). Through this study, analysis of the results supported the use of videogames, in that people can use them as a safe outlet for which to act out against authority. Hegemonic masculinity, the concept which says that there are cultural normatives to male behavior, is also resisted through videogames, which can allow a person to define themselves through their actions while playing videogames. Femininity is also resisted, in an opposite fashion as hegemonic masculinity. By playing videogames, actions by the player often reflect the true behavior exhibited by how the player would respond if the situation were real.
This behavioral aspect can become skewed and misinterpreted, however, with the introduction of violence into the videogame. Craig A. Anderson, director of the Center for the Study of Violence in Iowa State University, has researched the effects of violent media (including videogames) and the effect it has on subjects. According to his research, subjects who are exposed to violent videogames exhibit aggressive thoughts, aggressive emotions, heart rate increases, and new forms of aggressive behaviors unseen in subjects before exposure (http://www.psychology.iastate.edu). However, there is a controversy whether the extent of aggressiveness often displayed after people play violent videogames is just a heightened sense of euphoria from the excitement of the game, or an actual impression of violent, possibly harmful behavior. The controversy is effectively explained in Jeffrey Goldstein's study. Goldstein elaborates:
Studies of violent video games do not always distinguish aggressive play from aggressive behavior [.]. Observations of children on the playground may confuse mock aggression (pretending to engage in martial arts) with real aggression (attempting to hurt someone). Confusing aggressive play with aggressive behavior can lead to faulty conclusions. What appears to an observer to be aggressive behavior may instead be aggressive play, where there is no intent to injure anyone. In the rare study that measures both aggressive play and aggressive behavior [.], violent video games affect the former and not the latter. (http://culturalpolicy.uchicago.edu)
It is in this sense that Goldstein explains that though videogames may cause a sense of aggression in players, the aggression is not displayed in a dangerous or harmful manner, but rather in a playful sense. This matter has been brought up on several accounts, though blame has still been placed on the violent videogame for causing unsafe aggressive behavior.
Blame has been put on violent videogames for cases of extreme violence in which the perpetrator(s) were known to have played videogames with high violence content. One case in specific which has been used as an example of comparison to other cases is that of the Columbine High School Massacre. As confirmed by numerous sources, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold (the gunmen of the Columbine incident) were both fans of videogames such as Doom (as shown below) and Wolfenstein 3D.
Some analysts argued that part of the killers' problem may have been desensitization to violence due to their constant exposure to violent imagery in such videogames, as well as music and movies, and that their obsession with these forms of media may have caused depersonalization for the two. (http://www.salon.com) With this explanation, it is possible to see and understand the viewpoint of how violent videogames could be the source of such an outburst of violence from Harris and Klebold, but it was only through the desensitization and depersonalization of the two that spurred such action. What is often not elaborated on is the fact that Harris and Klebold felt unwelcome at their school, being in the gothic sub-culture of their student body. Having few friends, emotional insecurities, and a feeling of constant loneliness would be a bigger factor to consider in this matter rather than exposure to violent videogames, as not all videogame players are socially suppressed, but the majority of criminally minded individuals who commit mass murder are.
Videogames aren't just mindless entertainment; there are deep psychological elements rooted in the very foundation of the games. Videogames can give insight into the analytical mind of the gamer, the player's strategic thinking, and even the moral mindset of the player. Videogames can change the behavior of a person, positively and negatively. However, the popularity of videogames doesn't seem to be fading, so people should expect to see their continued presence.
