Maintaining Rights 8
Maintaining Voting Rights:
An Argument Against Compulsory Voting
Carlie Schlittenhart
Northern Arizona University
Since the United States of America was established as a country in 1776, this country and its people have advocated hard work and freedom of choice. Though the right to vote was given to "all citizens of the United States," achieving equal of voting rights for everyone was quite an affair. Only with the establishment of the 14th amendment, was every man regardless of race, given the absolute right to vote. 52 years later with the 19th, no woman could be rejected her right to vote. In 1971, the 26th amendment gave all citizens ages 18 and older their right. Since equal voting rights have been so difficult to achieve, Americans have been struggling virtually since the foundation of the United States to ensure them. Even with the extraordinary amount of work exerted by previous generations to achieve voting rights, many Americans choose not to. This has allowed for a controversy to arise.
Some believe that establishing compulsory voting would be beneficial to this country, while others assert that it is an infringement on their rights. Whether or not it is an educated choice to exclude themselves, Americans deserve the right to decide. Not only do voting rights affect the outcome of elections, but they symbolize the importance of democracy, a trait this nation prides itself on.
The founding fathers that wrote the Constitution, adopted in 1787, intended for citizens of the United States to possess greater freedoms than those in their former country. The Constitution states in the first amendment, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances" (Cornell University).
The foundation of the United States as a country was based on obtaining freedoms from its mother colony, Britain. Although the colonies were separate from England, the citizens of the colonies had no control over the decisions that were being made affecting them. That is the reason for the division from England. Once the United States received its independence, and established a Constitution, freedoms were ensured for Americans. Every American is given the right to vote, and many who refrain from voting are unknowledgeable in regards to politics, or choose not to vote for political reasons. In an article published by New York Amsterdam News, 16 year old Ginsburg says, "I think voting has never really accomplished much of anything. If people want to vote I don't have a problem with it. I don't think it's wrong to vote" (America Speaks, 2004). When Ginsburg reaches the age of majority where it is legal for him to participate in elections, he likely will refrain from voting. These nonvoters should not be forced to vote, when the Americans that do vote care about the outcome of elections.
There are five major reasons why voting should remain a sacred right, not a legal obligation as suggested by some. The first reason being to respect the rights of citizens who choose not to cast a ballot based either on ideologies they have, or because they cannot agree with the platform of a candidate. Second, it would be ineffective due to the type of government the United States always possessed. It might also spark resentment of the government and demean voting, by the transformation of a right into an requirement. Fourth, the obligation would skew election results by forcing ignorant and uninformed Americans to cast a vote. Lastly, because voting has been a right since the birth of this country, making it compulsory would break tradition and contradict the ideals that are so highly valued in this country. Essentially, the application of compulsory voting in The United States would prove to be oxymoronic.
In every presidential election, there are two major candidates who affiliate themselves with the two most prominent parties in American politics. Often, the platforms of these rival candidates choose opposite sides of key issues such as economics, health care, the environment, etc. Other times, as has been shown in more recent elections, the candidates take similar stances on many key issues, which is a cause of confusion in selecting a candidate to vote for. While some voters are loyal to a specific party, other voters choose to vote for the candidate who supports the majority of their personal beliefs on policy.
For example, in the case of many Catholic voters, an issue resulting in the final decision of their choice of candidate has been abortion. Since many sectors of the Christian church urge its followers to side with candidates who are pro-life, that has been a trend among Catholic voters. "For some, one remedy to the complexity of political life is to vote according to one major issue (recently the issue most associated with Catholics has been abortion) There are a whole host of other issues connected with the "one" that was thought to stand alone... It is this very situation that has left many Catholics politically homeless" (Daley, 2004). Because of this moral contradiction several voters experience, there is often a belief that refraining from voting is the best decision. Citizens who choose not to vote are not necessarily conflicted or confused, but could be busy or lack interest in policy.
The percentage of registered voters who said the reason they did not vote in 2004 because they were too busy or had conflicting work or school schedules was 20%; this was the most common reason given for not voting (U.S. Census Bureau, 2008). With the enactment of compulsory voting, those 20% of registered Americans would be fined for their busy schedules. Another reason for declining to vote is the belief that voting will not make a difference in either politics or the administration of the country. In an interview, Frank Ferdind, a retired pilot stated: "I have a friend on the Committee of Ways and Means in the House,* and I've seen inside of politics because of him. I stopped voting a long time ago, because I know that it doesn't make the slightest difference," (2009). Mr. Ferdind would clearly be upset if voting was made a legal obligation, although he does possess a vast knowledge of politics.
Whether or not Americans choose to vote in a given election is dependent on many things. In a study performed by a group of economists, both incumbency and the state of the economy were linked with voter turnouts. "As institutional requirements change the character of the incumbent candidacy, from an elected president to an untried first-timer, economic voting changes in emphasis from retrospective to prospective" (Nadeau & Lewis-Beck, 2001). The correlation that the economists found is that Americans are more likely to vote in an election where and incumbent* is running for a second term and the economy is in good shape. The decision to vote is based on so many factors, and
The last group of nonvoters is compiled of those who are apathetic or unknowledgeable. They reside among the 36% of those who did not vote in the 2004 election. The point is that voting is a choice, and should remain one. Because every individual in the United States has a choice of whether or not they will vote in any given election, that right could not be taken away without consequences and most likely, failure. Revocation of this right would withdraw the voice of many through voting. Whether or not a citizen has a valid reason to refrain from voting, it is imperative that the choice remains their own.
It is a fact that many countries in the world successfully utilize compulsory voting. The success however is measured by voter turnout. In Australia, the rate of voter turnout in 2007 was approximately 95%, which is significantly higher than America's 64% in 2004 (Australian Commission, 2007). What is ignored when considering this number a success is the percentage of Australians who were ignorant of the candidate's platforms, and the type of government that controls the Australian people. Australia is ruled by a federal monarchy under a parliamentary democracy. This type of government clearly differentiates from America's democracy, as does the history and establishment of Australia. This evident success in Australia is incomparable to the United States because the types of government are completely different.
The ideals that accompany democracy in this country are far different from that of many others. Even if a legal obligation to vote was enforced, there is a high risk that it would fail. Basing a political system on another country is an incredibly difficult task. For example, Iraq has recently changed its form of government to a democracy. The reason this is so complicated is reliant on the combination of culture and change. The residents of the country have experienced thousands of years of another culture and government entirely different from America's. This change would be unnecessary and ineffective.
Not only would the shift from a right to a legal obligation be difficult for the population to adjust to, but require a great deal of effort and may provoke government resentment. One theoretical benefit of compulsory voting is the political involvement that will begin to take place among the American people. With the newly acquired involvement from previous nonvoters, there is an opportunity for raising support of the government. Lack of government support has been increasingly evident over the last decade, and advocates of transformation of the right to vote in hopes of reversal (Ruggles, 2008). However, government resentment rather than support will likely occur among two key groups of Americans. The two groups being those who respect voting as a right, those who refrain from voting for political reasons, and those who do not vote due to apathy and/or lack of awareness. Compulsory voting becomes a burden, and is often an inconvenience, especially to those newly forced to vote.
Compulsory voting will diminish the value of a vote. Equal voting rights have not always been available to all citizens of the United States. The obligation of voting would make voting less meaningful in the cases of Americans who appreciate and respect those who fought to achieve the voting rights to all citizens. As noted earlier, the ability for every American to possess the right to vote is not an ancient right. Especially for citizens between the ages of 18 and 21, the right to vote is newly acquired, with the enactment of the 26th amendment being less than forty years ago.
The dilemma in making voting obligatory is transforming a right into a forced right, which leaves no choice, making it no longer a right. A right entails a choice, the right to vote means there is a decision for each citizen to make about whether or not they will participate in an election. By making voting compulsory, this "choice" can no longer be labeled as a choice, because it will be forced. Forced voting would be the cancellation of a right.
With obligatory voting, ignorant and disinterested individuals will be forced to vote. According to the Cambridge Dictionary, the definition of ignorant is "not having enough knowledge, understanding or information about something" (Cambridge Dictionary). In the case of voting, ignorance applies to those uniformed about each candidate and their political platforms. For those who value the right to vote and participate in elections by becoming familiar with the candidates, will likely not appreciate ignorant individuals voting when they have the potential to take voting halfheartedly. For some apathetic citizens, casting a vote would be more of a game than a crucial shift in government authority. Ignorant votes might be based on a number of things including age, race, social status, and appearance, as opposed to voting for a candidate due to their party affiliation, campaign strategies, or political platform. It is insulting to dedicated voters to have an equal vote as someone voting solely to avoid a fine. It is already a moral duty in the minds of those who choose to vote on a regular basis. However, this duty does not apply to the morals of every American. With compulsory voting enacted, this duty will be required to attain to every individual.
The "American dream" can be described by two words: hard work and freedom. Growing up in public American school districts teaches children the importance of exercising rights. Teachers demonstrate the various freedoms that come with being a citizen of the United States and why it's important to respect them. Embedded in the curriculum are stories of gaining independence, the adoption of the Constitution, and various groups of minorities in the past sacrificing to acquire equal rights. It is mostly accepted that Americans are special in possessing these rights. Without the ability to exercise the right, voting would be prone to becoming less sacred through obligation. The United States of America is based on the application of rights and freedoms entitled to all peoples. The heart of this country intended by the founding fathers is freedom of choice; without the right to vote, an American tradition is being annulled.
The hypothetical reasons for instituting compulsory voting are many. It is argued that the country would benefit from obligation initially by increasing the voting population significantly. It is also argued that those unaware of candidates and their political platforms previous to the enactment would show an interest in becoming knowledgeable of these topics. In comparison to countries such as Australia it is believed that this could be enacted without a substantial degree of funding. With most of the Americans over 18 participating in elections, citizens will be more responsible for the outcome, and in turn, more supportive of the government they have chosen.
For those who want to do everything they can to advocate compulsory voting, vote. That is all that can be done by one individual, because all the other Americans in this country will continue to make their voting choice for themselves. Because that is what voting is. A choice. A right. Citizens who take an interest in politics, and choose to vote should continue to exercise that right, while those who lack knowledge of candidates can continue to refrain from voting. What it comes down to is American ideals. Traditions. Ideas. Choices. Freedoms. Making voting compulsory would be taking a right the founders of the American government deemed as sacred and making it less dignified.
