Conspiracy 1
RUNNING HEAD: CONSPIRACY
Conspiracy in the Oval Office
Alicia Jackson
ENG 105
Northern Arizona University
Some of the most memorable events in the United States history are the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the assassination of President John F Kennedy and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Each event was a tragic one that caused sorrow and destruction while taking many innocent lives. While grieving, some turned to the United States government for answers for who was to blame, while others sought answers from outside sources and blamed the Executive Branch for being involved. Along with the countless books published, movies and documentaries such as "Fahrenheit 9/11" by writer/producer Michael Moore attacked the Bush Administration for being involved in the terrorist attack, and "JFK" made by the acclaimed director Oliver Stone, was a filmed filled with conspiracy theories and searched for the answers to who shot Kennedy. It is clear that the United States government had prior knowledge of and chose not to intervene, or orchestrated the attacks on the country entirely.
Pearl Harbor was a military base located on the Main Island in Hawaii, and was attacked by Japanese forces on the morning of December 7, 1941. The attack and death of so many members of the military caused an uproar of support for the US to officially enter World War II, and that very evening, President Franklin D Roosevelt declared war on Japan. Americans were led to believe that the Executive Branch was completely unaware of Japan's hostility and their impending attack. This, however, is untrue. For a year leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor, Japanese forces had been moving across the Pacific towards America, invading and taking control of United States territories. Surely the Roosevelt administration could pick up on the trend occurring and deduct that Pearl Harbor would also soon be attacked, and D. Glick, author of the article "How Much Did FDR Know?" in 1991 states that Roosevelt and others in power "dragged America into was by suppressing warnings of the attacks" (1). Also, the Japanese use of "wind codes" gave cause for suspicion of Japan's intent. Robert Hanyok argues in his 2009 article that the wind codes used in the Japanese media were used to "warn Japanese diplomats of deteriorating relations between Japan and the United States, Great Britain, or the Soviet Union" (2). In a time of war, a bad relationship with enemies of one's allies is serious cause for concern. Also, the United States had somewhat soiled the relationship with Japan when they announced that the United States was a protector of democracy and was working to stop the spread of communism during the First World War. It is plausible that Japan saw the United Sates as a threat to their way of government and felt it necessary to show how powerful they were.
The President's actions before the attack, along with the country's economic turmoil caused reason to suspect a conspiracy as well. Just days before the attack on Pearl Harbor, President Roosevelt ordered for some military ships and planes be removed from the Harbor and they were saved from the destruction. Luckily, this provided the United States with war materials after the Japanese attack. Whether it was another stroke of luck, or a planned move by Roosevelt, the ships that were left in Pearl Harbor and destroyed were from World War I, and the newer, more advanced materials were saved. It is possible, and understandable, that President Roosevelt removed these ships because he knew of Japan's plans, and wished to save the military supplies so the United States wouldn't be left defenseless with launching a counterattack. The United States entrance into the war also benefitted the economy greatly. Before the attack on Pearl Harbor, the United States was in economic turmoil, having been suffering from the Great Depression for seven years. There was little money, jobs and production existing in the United States, and Roosevelt's New Deal Programs were having little impact on the conditions. As it did in the wars before, the United States entrance into the Second World War provided jobs for young men as they went off to fight and jobs for others working in factories to produce other war materials. The existence of jobs gave workers more money to buy goods, quickly improving the economy. From this information, it is understandable that Roosevelt allowed the attack on Pearl Harbor to ignite support for US entry into the war, thus lifting the United States from the Great Depression.
The assassination of John F Kennedy is another event surrounded by conspiracy. Riding in a Presidential motorcade in Dallas, Texas, the President was shot four times by Lee Harvey Oswald. Kennedy later died, and Vice President Lyndon B Johnson was sworn in as the next United States President. Many conspiracy theorists argue that Oswald was falsely portrayed as the only gunman involved in the assassination. In an official statement to the media, it was said that Oswald was being arrested and convicted as the man who shot Kennedy, but eye-witnesses state that there were four gunshots fired at the motorcade. If in fact four gunshots were fired, it is impossible that Oswald was the only shooter. The gun he supposedly used in the assassination was an old rifle that could only fire three shots in the time frame of the murder. Another one of the most popular conspiracy theories is the "Magic Bullet" theory. This theory states that while only three bullets were found as evidence, the wounds made were the product of four bullets fired. As stated by the Executive Branch, the third bullet fired went through the President's neck and shoulder, and then proceeded to strike the Alabama governor accompanying him in the wrist. Weapons specialists have tried to reconstruct this hit to only include three bullets, but for this to happen, the bullet exiting John F Kennedy would have had to completely change its course while in his chest to be moving in the right direction to hit the governor at all. The picture below illustrates the path the single third bullet would have had to take to strike both the President and Governor.
A writer from the 2001 Progressive magazine states that while he does tend to trust the government, he admits that "the Warren Commission did a hasty, slipshod job of investigating the Kennedy assassination, leaving many questions unanswered," working to prove that the Executive Branch worked to cover up or even ignored questions to avoid that fact that there were four shots fired, to protect the information that Oswald was not the only shooter involved in the assassination (2).
There is evidence in addition to these theories that others in the position of authority wished to be rid of Kennedy for their own personal gain, and Oswald was just a hired assassin. Oswald was portrayed by the media as a devoted communist and it was aired that he had sought citizenship in Russia and Cuba, and he had a great hatred for the United States way of government. This allowed the media to also pin him as someone who hated Kennedy and worked to destroy his work for civil rights movements and get revenge for his work in Vietnam. It is possible; however, that Oswald was hired by Cuban dictator Fidel Castro to assassinate the President. Kennedy had been working with the CIA to secretly remove the dictator from power as they combated against the spread of communism, and Castro may have wanted his own revenge. David Talbot of the 2007 Time magazine argues that although the media was working hard to portray Oswald a communist lunatic, even JFKs brother, Bobby Kennedy, believed Oswald was a member of the shadowy operation that was seeking to overthrow Castro" and was then used to assassinate the President (2). Some also believe that Vice President Lyndon B Johnson had wanted the President dead to further his own political career. Johnson had been involved in a number of scandals during the Presidential term and had been fearful that he would be excluded from the ticket when Kennedy ran again. Unready to leave the Oval Office, it is likely Johnson hired professional gunmen to murder the President. Other evidence that points to Executive Branch involvement is that the route for the Presidential motorcade had been changed a single day before it was to occur, and only a few people, including the Vice President, would have this knowledge in time to make plans for an assassination. Even if Castro had an informant in the Administration, it would have taken longer for the information to get to him and make changes to place Oswald in the correct place to shoot the President.
One of the more recent attacks on the United States that caused a raise in conspiracy theories is the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon. That morning four jet airliners were high jacked from American airports, with two crashing into the Twin Towers, another into the Pentagon and the last in a field in Pennsylvania, causing the death of 2,974 people. President George W Bush and his administration responded by launching a War on Terrorism and invading Afghanistan to rid the country of the al-Qaeda terrorist group. One popular conspiracy theory is that the World Trade Center was brought to ground zero by the explosion of pre-placed explosives, and not the crashing of the planes into the towers. Explosive specialists have stated that the nose-cones of the planes could have been used as large canisters to hold explosive materials. Also, after watching video evidence, it is seen that the expulsion of debris from the towers were consistent with a bomb, rather than a plane crash.
Another theory comes from the suspicion that the airliner which reportedly crashed into the Pentagon was falsified, and it was hit by a missile or smaller plane. The damage done to the Pentagon is consistent with a small fire or controlled demolition, as there is undamaged office materials like books and cabinet with absolutely no fire damage. This is illustrated with the image below. The open book is located the second floor, sitting on a stool. These materials are placed adjacent to the site of the plane crash, now being exposed to open air, with the new absence of a wall.
Also, there is was no baggage collected at the site of the crash. Surely if a large commercial jet crashed into the Pentagon, a few suitcases would be found. In addition to this, the size of the damage done to the building is not large enough to be made from a large airliner. The hole made in the wall was a mere 12 feet wide, not large enough to even be consistent with the damage a single wing of the plane could do.
One popular theory about the plane that was over-taken and crashed in a large field in Pennsylvania is that was actually brought down by a missile. Witnesses report seeing an unmarked white plane in the area of the airliner before it "crashed", and there were also reports of seeing flying debris from the plane, like that of an explosion, before it crashed.
Whether it was an assassination or act of terrorism, there is a large amount of evidence to establish that the United States government was involved in the planning of, or ignoring signs of upcoming attacks on the country. The number of videos produced and books written trying to find answers to the question of how much involvement the United States government had, may have no effect on whether the truth is found, but these individuals can find solace in knowing they did not just blindly follow the Administration in charge, and took the initiative to think for themselves.
