Scott Mortensen
Ms. Kacie Beagen
Eng 105
4/27/09
Drug Testing in School
Drugs are the biggest problem facing America's youth today. There are many tools being used to combat this problem. One way is by drug testing adolescents in schools. Random, suspicion less drug testing is a common sight in America's high schools, and is becoming more and more popular. When used appropriately, this can be a useful tool in the fight against drugs. Unfortunately, there are too many problems facing random drug testing in schools. Although random drug testing has good intentions, its benefits do not outweigh the damages it does to one's privacy, its economic impact, and the fact that it is not all that effective.
One of the biggest issues with random drug testing is the invasion of privacy. The fourth amendment of the constitution guarantees the protection from unreasonable search and seizure by the government. This applies to all citizens of the United States. However, during the case of The Board of Education v. Earls, the Supreme Court ruled that students that attend public high schools have fewer rights, and even less for student-athletes, than regular citizens when it comes to searches and seizures (La Croix). Does this mean that high school students and student-athletes are not equal to any other United States citizen?
The process of drug testing itself is very embarrassing to a high school adolescent. The most commonly used test for a high school student is the urinal test. For the test, the one being tested is under close scrutiny by an official. For girls, the official has to hand them a cup and follow them into the bathroom and stand outside the stall and listen while they fill the cup. It is even more embarrassing for boys. Officials hand them a cup in the bathroom and actually watch them urinate into the cup. Although this does help to ensure its accuracy, it is very uncomfortable for the adolescent being tested.
These tests are also embarrassing for the ones being tested because they often require the examinee to reveal personal information about what medications they are taking whether for a physical or mental disease. When they reveal what medications they are taking, they then reveal what conditions they are being treated for. This breaks the private patient confidentiality that is held only between the patient and their physician. This kind of information can be very private and sensitive and would have otherwise been unknown to anyone else if the teen being tested was not forced to give the information.
The results of the random drug tests are supposed to be very strictly confidential to help protect the integrity of the one being tested. However, often times, the results of these tests are found out by people other than who needs to know. One of the most obvious ways that the peers of a student with a positive test find out is by the mere fact that they stop attending any extracurricular activity that they were being tested for. The random drug testing requires that the results of the test are kept confidential, but there is no requirement about the confidentiality of telling anyone else that someone is going to be tested. When somebody finds out that a peer is getting tested, and suddenly, without explanation, stops attending the extracurricular activity, it can easily be assumed that the test was positive. Another issue with confidentiality is that the test results are frequently just left lying around. Making sure the results are kept secure "may be hard to implement within a school setting, yet unless schools are able to guarantee the security of such systems" (Mc Keganey). Anybody can find and read the results of the tests in this case. Also, officials are not always trustworthy with the information they obtain.
An excellent example is in the case of Jonathan "Zach" Montoya. Zach grew up and went to high school in the small town of Los Alamos. He was a student-athlete all four years of high school, maintained excellent grades, and was one of the most athletic students at the school. He stayed out of trouble and was very involved in the community, but because of his great athleticism, he was subject to drug testing often. Because of the high frequency of tests, he eventually came up positive. The problem was that he never took any illegal drugs; there was just a mistake in the test. Eventually, word got around that he did not pass his test because "in small towns, everybody talks to everyone else, and some people just cannot be trusted with that type of information" (Montoya).
Furthermore, drug testing high school students has problems with consent. Most high school students are under the age of 18, so the school must seek permission to drug test from their parents. Parents are not universally supportive of drug testing and their policies. If a parent does not give consent, then the child's standing with the school may be jeopardized. Random drug testing policies usually consider a student to be positive if they do not take or refuse to take the test even if they are completely clean (Mc Keganey). This is not fair for the student. The student should not have to suffer the consequences if it were their parents' decision. The student is then being punished not for something they may have done, but for what they did not do; which is not under their control in the first place.
Another major problem with random drug testing in schools is the cost of the tests. The cost of drug testing in schools is outrageous. In fact, it is so expensive that "the cost of testing is likely to exceed most schools' entire expenditure on drug education, prevention, or counseling" (Gerada). There are many types of drug tests. The most common, and less expensive compared to the rest, is the urinal test. This test usually cost between 14 and 30 dollars for the initial, indicative test. If a test comes up positive, there has to be another, confirmatory test. Confirmatory tests usually cost more than the original, indicative tests. These tests are only used for drugs like marijuana, cocaine, and amphetamines. The more expensive tests are for performance enhancing drugs like anabolic steroids. Since steroids are harder to find, the cost of these tests are significantly more ranging anywhere from 100 to 200 dollars.
Dr. Robert Dupont is an expert on drugs. He graduated from Harvard with a medical doctorate degree, was the first Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse from 1973 to 1978, and was the second White House Drug Chief. Dupont says that the average "annual cost of school drug testing programs range from $1500-$36,000 per school" in the United States (Mc Keganey). This is a significant drain on schools' already scarce resources. Where does this money come from? It comes from the same place that schools get their money for anything else, tax payers' money. It is not fair to make citizens of the United States pay for the random drug tests when they do not affect them in one way or another. Plus, most of the time the tests do not even find anything.
Random drug testing is ineffective due to its problems with accuracy and that it is not a very good deterrent from drugs. Accuracy of random drug testing is constantly under question. The problems with the accuracy of tests fall under the category of false positives, and false negatives. False positives occur when a test result is positive, when in reality it should not have been like in the case of Zach Montoya. A false positive can occur because of what the one being tested has consumed like food or medications. That is why test subjects are forced to reveal what medications they are on. Even common over-the-counter drugs can cause false positive results. Products like codeine produce results similar to opiates, decongestants produce results similar to amphetamines, and even ibuprofen can be confused with marijuana. Not only do these students have to be careful of what medications they take, but they also have to be careful about the food they eat. Even simple poppy seeds and herbal teas produce false positives. Poppy seeds are easily and commonly confused with opiates (Evans). Herbal teas are worse and can be mistaken with almost any drug depending on what type of tea was drunk.
False negatives pose a problem as well because they are tests that result where drugs have been taken, but the test was unable to find out. False negatives occur most often because the sample is too diluted and the concentration of traces of illegal drugs is below the threshold of detection for the initial test ("False Positives."). On top of this, each type of drug test has its limitations. For example, urinal tests are usually only effective for a period of about 30 days, while tests like the hair test do not work until a few days after the drugs have been taken.
http://www.hair-drug-tests.com/main.asp
Another issue that can produce false positives is the way the samples are stored. Especially in school settings, it can be hard to store positive indicative tests for further confirmatory testing. Over time, mediums like urine can lose its potency to produce a false negative in the confirmatory test. Also, poorly stored samples can easily be tampered with; which brings up the problem with flat out cheating. There are many ways to cheat these tests. Just by Google searching "passing a drug test", over 900,000 hits came up in less than a second. There are easily obtainable methods that adolescents can find on the internet. One way of cheating a test is by substitution. The lucky students who are not embarrassingly being watched urinate by an official can easily pretend to urinate into a cup while they just pour somebody else's urine in that is clean. For hair tests, if the student knows that it is coming, they simply just have to shave their head, suspicious yes, but they will pass the test. There is even a market that specifically deals with passing random drug testing. The products that are sold are masking agents. These masking agents, called "Detox Kits", are consumed by the person being drug tested, and then they are all the sudden "clean" rendering the tests useless.
https://www.goldenneedleonline.com/index.php?page=products2&letter=&pg=16&id=5296
One of the reasons that random drug tests are implemented is because it deters students from doing any drugs. However, random drug testing is not as effective as other methods of drug prevention and can even be counterproductive. The best way to prevent drug abuse by the school is to create policies "that address key values, attitudes, and perceptions [because they] prove more important in drug prevention than drug testing" (Yamaguchi). Drug prevention programs are important because they stop the problem before it even starts. Improving knowledge about substance abuse also correlates with reducing substance abuse. The North American Journal of Psychology did a study on this and found a significant improvement with the attitudes of abusers. They surveyed the students about their use and knowledge of illegal substances before and after they installed a substance abuse curriculum. They found that after the program, "36% of users stated that participating in the program already had reduced their use of drugs and 26% of users stated it had reduced their use of alcohol" (Gatins).
The most unfortunate part about drug testing is that it may actually be counterproductive. One cannot throw out the idea that a positive result is what some adolescents want. Having a positive test may increase the status of a rebel to the eyes of their peers. In this case, drug testing may be the cause of some drug use, which is the very reason they were designed and used in the first place. Random drug tests can also be counterproductive because it prevents participation in an extracurricular activity. Extracurricular activities like sports are one of the best ways to keep adolescents safe. They keep students under controlled, safe, and monitored environments that promote health and social growth. When this is taken away from a student because of a positive test, they are pushed away and made to feel like an outcast. They are then more inclined to do drugs and other harmful activities because they are not being monitored and are not learning healthy skills.
Random drug testing for sports may drive some students from even beginning to participate in extracurricular activities. One reason is because they do not want to be falsely "labeled" by their peers. Since tests commonly produce false positives, some students are afraid to even be tested. Therefore, they do not even try out for extracurricular activities and are easier susceptible to drug use and abuse. Also, those who are already taking drugs that nobody knows about already will be driven away from extracurricular activities because they do not want anyone else to know that they are using drugs. This is unfortunate because if they are already using, then a positive test may actually lead them to get help. However, since they are afraid of being caught, they will not participate and therefore not be subject to the drug testing. The drug testing in this case is counterproductive because if there were not any testing and the student joined the sport, than they would learn important life and health lessons.
Overall, random drug testing should not be mandatory in high schools. It is too invasive of one's privacy and is very embarrassing. It costs too much and is not all that effective in the first place. Its intentions however are good and should be commended for that, but it is just not the appropriate solution to the problem. There are many other cost efficient and effective ways to keep adolescents off of drugs like educational programs designed to inform students about the problems with drugs, which in turn usually improves their attitudes about drugs as well. In the future, if random drug testing policies are improved to address these issues, then they should implement them. However, for today, they are just not working.
