Soldiers
7
8
Soldiers
Ronni Sounart
Belknap
English 105
4/30/09
Child Soldiers
What if, instead of entering into middle or high school, your child was forced into war? What if, instead of going to Prom and getting their license, your child was handed a gun and required to fight? In Uganda, as well as many other parts of the world, children are being forced to fight with a group known as the LRA at an inconceivable young age. These children are thrown into lives of violence and combat against the will of them or their parents. With the resources we have so readily available to us as American's, we need to step in and see that this war comes to an end.
The Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) originated with a woman named Alice Lakwena. Sometime in the 1980's Lakwena claimed that she received a message from the Holy Spirit that said she needed to overthrow the Ugandan government. Her reason was because the Ugandan government was being unjust to the Acholi people. Resentment for the government grew very quickly and Lakwena and her group, known as the Holy Spirit Movement, gained momentum. Shortly after Lakwena was exiled, leaving no leader for her Holy Spirit Movement, Joseph Kony took control claiming to be her cousin (invisiblechildren.com).
Kony turned Lakwena's Holy Spirit Movement into the LRA but did not receive as many followers from the Acholi. Because of this lack of support the LRA began abducting children into their military and forcing them to fight. As a result, in 1996, the Ugandan government began relocating many civilians into camps to provide protection. Even with this relocation many are still in overcrowded areas and children are still being picked up as child soldiers (invisiblechildren.com).
".I lay there with my gun pointed in front of me, unable to shoot. My index finger had become numb. The forest had begun to spin. I felt as if the ground had turned upside down and I was going to fall off, so I clutched the base of a tree with one hand. I couldn't think, but I could hear the sounds of the guns far away in the distance and the cries of people dying in pain. I had begun to fall into some sort of nightmare. A splash of blood hit my face. In my reverie I had opened my mouth a bit, so I tasted some of the blood. As I spat it out and wiped it off my face, I saw the soldier it had come from. Blood poured out of the bullet holes in him like water rushing through the newly opened tributaries. His eyes were wide open; he still held his gun. My eyes were fixed on him when I heard Josiah scream. He cried for his mother in the most painfully piercing voice that I had ever heard. It vibrated inside my head to the point that I felt my brain had shaken loose from its anchor" (Beah, 2007).
After a year of running, Ishmael Beah was 13 years old when this took place. And this was just the beginning of his journey with the LRA. It is estimated that 90 percent of the LRA were abducted as children (invisiblechildren.com).
Americans come up with excuse after excuse as to why we should not be giving aid to these other countries. They often say that we cannot afford it in a time with our economy as it is and that we have tried before and it did not work so we should not waste anymore time. This does not seem right.
"At present more than 90% of Americans have credit cards.the average American family owes credit card companies around $8,000" (Maupin, 2005). Some people use credit cards in a good way, not falling into more debt than they can get themselves out of. But many people do not. They often spend money that they do not have on things they do not need. We talk about the economic crisis that we are going through yet many Americans cannot keep from buying things that they do not need.
There is no reason that Americans cannot work on fixing our economic crisis while trying to save lives in Uganda. Many do not realize the severity of the issue and that it does not take much to help these young children out. It does not even have to cost that much money. There are plenty of opportunities to get involved with aid in Uganda without spending money. The founders of Invisible Children are always looking for support that comes in more ways than just money.
The things that do involve money do not have to be a lot. Simply buying a 10-dollar t-shirt or a 20-dollar bracelet would suffice. This is roughly half a weeks worth of the morning espresso. It is also possible to make a donation of however much one desires to make. This is not a lot of money compared to what the average American is used to spending. Many would not even notice this was gone. But money is not the only excuse Americans make for not helping.
Some know that the United States has tried in the past to make peace with the LRA but it has failed. Many of these people will argue that because we tried in the past that we should not keep wasting our time. But not everything is a waste of time. Elizabeth Jones spent time in Northern Uganda training people to deal with children that have been enslaved. She worked with these people on ways to approach them and strategies to take when trying to treat them. She did not get to work directly with the children but she was able to work with those that spoke the language of the children so that they could make the best progress possible (Jones, 2006). This is not an attempt that failed. She was successfully able to help the people over there. It may not have brought an end to the war but it was a small step towards making it better. She shared what she had in order for these children to live better lives.
If everyone lived their lives by trying something a couple of times and then giving up our country would get nowhere. Most Americans do not live their lives that way as it stands today. If something does not work the first time we learn from it and try something different, it does not mean stop. These people do not deserve for us to stop trying.
As Americans, we tend to not realize how good we have it here. We to tend to take the simple things like food, water, shelter, and safety for granted. American children often complain about having to go to school and pick up their rooms when most children in Uganda would be grateful for being able to go to school and would love to have a room to pick up. Many do not realize what it is like to be living in a country like Uganda. And it is not because they have not heard. It is because many have heard and thrown in to the back of their mind. They hear about things like this, feel sorry for the children, and then push it aside to worry about what's for dinner that night. They often do not realize that more than 20,000 children have been abducted by the LRA and cannot relate to the things they have experienced (Martin, 2008).
A study was done on what these children have been through and the effects it has had on them. Three hundred post-war children were observed and talked to about their experiences. ". 77 percent witnessed the killing of another person, 6 percent saw the killing of their father, mother, brother or sister, and 2 percent had to kill their own father, brother, or relative. Further, 39 percent killed another person, 61 percent lived in Sudan under difficult conditions, 27 percent had to drink their own urine, and 64 percent were compelled to participate in fights. Also, the research shows that 21 percent were sexually abused and 11 percent had one or more children in captivity."(Martin, 2008). Most Americans cannot even imagine this sort of violence.
"We were frightened because we were young children and we didn't know anything about the army. Even on the shooting range, when they tell you to fire, you're always very scared. For me to overcome that fear, I had to kill someone at the training camp. They brought someone to me one night when I was on duty guarding an entrance. It was a child, whose face they'd covered and they told me he was a rebel, an enemy, and I had to kill him. That's exactly what I did. On the spot. With my knife. That night, after doing that, I couldn't sleep. - G., age ten"(Singer, 2005). These kinds of stories are not uncommon for children in Uganda. The biggest worry for most children at the age of ten is not running from the army but what their mother is going to pack them for lunch that day and if they will be able to trade it with a friend. Imagine if your child was this child.
Some might say that the people in Uganda do not want our help. This is just not true. In a video made by Invisible Children, one child who was transferred to a safety camp said that he wanted American's to see that video so that they could come and help. Not only do they need our help, they want it.
The things that can be done about this problem are varied and wide spread. Invisible Children themselves give a list of ten simple things that can be done. First, take the lead. This option is all about you and what you have to offer. Get a group together and come up with whatever ways you think you can help. Use your time and talents for whatever you can with these children. Second, come and see. Invisible Children started with a movie. That is how they brought awareness to the issue. There are plenty of places, school, or work, that you can get people together to watch this movie. That's it. That's all you have to do. Show these people the pre-made video and you will gain support.
Third, spread the word. Fourth, create it. This option is especially nice for the artistic. Do whatever artistic abilities you do best and have an auction. Sell yourself. This is your chance to be creative with your artistic abilities and put it towards a good cause, and at the same time getting yourself known and showing people what you can do. Fifth, if you see an event in your town, capture it. Invisible Children need all the help they can get so if you see something happening that could be of assistance, record it, take a picture of it, whatever you have to do and send it in to them. It would help more than you would think.
Sixth, start somewhere. The hardest part seems to be getting started. So just go for it! Start with a sponsored run, walk, marathon, anything that will get the cause going and run with it. Seventh, be fashion forward. Create your own pins, hats, shirts, shoes, or even bumper stickers. This is a really simple thing to raise awareness and can even be fun at the same time. Eighth, make some music. So maybe art isn't your thing but music you can do. Get some friends together, talk a venue into donating a little free time and set up a benefit concert. This is a great way to make money and raise awareness. Pass out flyers, hang up posters, or sell those t-shirts you made in option number seven.
Ninth, learn from the Girl Scouts. We all know how many cookies those little girls sell, so why not try it yourself? Get in the kitchen, bake something, anything, and sell it! People will buy. And finally, get rid of it. Most of us have those pieces of clothing that we have sitting in our closet but never wear. So get rid of it. Get together with your friends and their pieces of clothing that never get worn and hold a garage sale. But don't stop at clothing. Get whatever it is you think you can live without and make some money out of it. It will raise more money than you think.
So as you can see, most of these things do not involve the use of much money. Raising awareness is one of the biggest things you can do to help these children. But don't stop there. Get out there and do something about this problem. Stop being lazy and putting it off until tomorrow and do something. You can't deny that child soldiers are a problem; now don't let it continue. It is our time to help.
