Seth 01
Sacheeta Seth
Prof. Hannah Pralle
ENG 105 Sec 41
04.07. 09
Death Penalty
The Death Penalty: Good or Evil? As we turn on radios and televisions, and even as we open the local newspaper today, we are bombarded with news of arrests, murders, homicides, and other such tragedies . There are many things I don't agree with in today's society, but out of the wrongdoings that take place, I believe murder, including the death penalty, is the worst of them as it is totally inhumane, immoral and an expensive affair . More than 4,500 people have been executed in the United States since 1930. There is no way of knowing how many have been executed in U.S. history because executions were often local affairs, with no central agency keeping track of them. The death penalty is the harshest form of punishment enforced in the United Sates today thus it is a controversial topic and has been for a number of years.
I am strongly against the death penalty because it violates "God's commandments" moreover the death penalty is wrong morally because it is cruel and inhumane to take away human life. The methods by which executions are carried out can involve physical torture. "Electrocution has on occasion caused extensive burns and needed more than one application of electric current to kill the condemned" (Amnesty 6). Opponents do not see the death penalty as being morally wrong. For them, the most likely source of constitutional difficulty with capital punishment is the prohibition against "cruel and unusual punishment," otherwise known as the Eighth Amendment. Some retentionists consider execution to be more humane that life
Seth 02
imprisonment because it is quick and instantaneous. Those in support of capital punishment feel that making the prisoner suffer by rotting in jail for the rest of his life is more torturous and inhumane than execution. To sum up the basic views of the proponents, imprisonment is simply not a sufficient safeguard against the future actions of criminals because it projects the possibility of escape and release on parole . But no matter what, capital punishment is and will remain a euphemism for legally killing people and no one, not even the State, has the authority to play God. "Capital punishment is a barbaric remnant of an uncivilized society. It is immoral in principle, and unfair and discriminatory in practice. It assures the execution of some innocent people. As a remedy for crime, it has no purpose and no effect"(American Civil Liberties Union National Office ).
Murdering any person, no matter what the individual has been convicted of, is a moral sin. Furthermore there is always the risk that an innocent person's life may be taken. Now I ask you, is taking an innocent person's life moral? The death penalty is irrevocable. "In case of a mistake, the executed prisoner cannot be given another chance. Justice can miscarry. In the last hundred years there have been more that 75 documented cases of wrongful conviction of criminal homicide. The death sentence was carried out in eight of these cases" (Draper 47). Undoubtedly many other cases of mistaken conviction and execution occurred and remain undocumented. A prisoner discovered to be blameless can be freed; but neither release nor compensation is possible for a corpse. To summarize capital punishment is a morally unacceptable thirst for revenge.
There is always the chance for convict to "pay-back" society. Abolitionists believe that the offender should be required to compensate the victim's family with the offender's own
Seth 03
income from employment or community service. There is no doubt that someone can do more alive than dead. By working, the criminal inadvertently "pays back" society and also their victim and/or the victim's family. There is no reason for the criminal to receive any compensation for his work. Money is of no value in jail. One of the most well known examples of the criminal contributing to the betterment of society is the case of Leopold and Loeb. Leopold and Loeb were nineteen years old when they committed "The Crime of the Century." In 1924 they kidnapped and murdered a fourteen year old boy just to see what it was like. They were both spared the death penalty and sentenced to life imprisonment. Together, their accomplishments include working at hospitals, teaching illiterates to read, creating a correspondence school, making significant developments in the World War II Malaria Project and writing a grammar book. "An inestimable amount of people were directly helped by Leopold and Loeb; both of them making a conscious commitment to atone by serving others" (Horwitz 109).
Looking at the issue logically we realize that every day there is more and more capital punishment in this country which is an uneconomical practice as it wastes resources. The belief that execution costs less than imprisonment is false. "The cost of the apparatus and maintenance of the procedures attending the death penalty, including death row and the endless appeals and legal machinery, far outweighs the expense of maintaining in prison the tiny fraction of criminals who would otherwise be slain". (Draper 46)."It squanders the time and energy of courts, prosecuting attorneys, defense counsel, juries, and courtroom and correctional personnel. It unduly burdens the system of criminal justice, and it is therefore counterproductive as an instrument for society's control of violent crime"(Bedau). Many people do not realize that if there was less capital punishment, a lot of money could be saved that could be used in many
Seth 04
other ways. "Maybe if they knew that it cost more money to kill somebody than they had the chance to spend in their entire life, they would have a different opinion about the death penalty"(Steffen 5). It is much less expensive to imprison someone for life than to execute theme. A study by the NY State Defenders Association showed that the cost of capital trial alone is more than double the cost of life imprisonment. The death penalty is not and has never been a more economical alternative to life imprisonment.
The death penalty was overturned and then reinstated in the United States during the 1970's due to questions concerning its fairness. The death penalty began to be reinstated slowly, but the rate of executions has increased during the 1990's. Many death penalty supporters feel that the death penalty reduces crime because it deters people from committing murder if they know that they will receive the death penalty if they get caught. Fear of death deters people from committing crimes, proponents say. They also believe that if attached to certain crimes, the penalty of death exerts a positive moral influence by placing a stigma on certain crimes like manslaughter, resulting in attitudes of disgust and horror to such acts. Furthermore, retentionists insist that the deterrent influence of the death penalty reaches across state lines into jurisdictions that have abolished it, and so all benefit by its continued use. The use of the death penalty will frighten these criminals, and fewer crimes will be committed because they know that the consequences of their actions could mean death. Others in favor of the death penalty feel that even if it doesn't deter others from committing crimes, it will eliminate repeat offenders. Death penalty opponents however feel that the death penalty actually leads to an increase in crime because the death penalty desensitizes people to violence, and it sends the message that violence is a suitable way to resolve conflicts. "Expert after expert and study after study have emphasized
Seth 05
the lack of correlation between the threat of the death penalty and the occurrence of violent crime" (Meador 69).
Jeffrey Riemann author of "The Death Penalty-For and Against" argues that the death penalty is not needed to deter future murderers and thus we do no injustice by refraining from executing current murderers (Rieman 27). The majority of social science studies on death penalty show that the difference between life in prison and death does not alter people's inclination or disinclination to commit murder. Lloyd Steffen in his book -Executing Jusstice says "If I were to become the victim of terrorists, I would not wish them to be hanged or killed in any other way for revenge. All that would do is deepen the bitterness which already exists" (Steffen 18) . According to me when a person has committed a murder which is a heinous crime, he should be tortured and made to realize his mistake rather than giving him an easy death.
Despite the time, attention, and resources devoted to capital prosecutions relative to the number of defendants convicted of capital offenses, few executions occur. Accordingly, the number of death row inmates continues to rise. One issue that has received scholarly and judicial attention recently concerns the present administration of capital punishment in the United States: Whether the passage of time between the imposition of a death sentence and the carrying out of that sentence can itself ripen into a substantive prohibition against the execution. Today, more than ever, most capital defendants spend a considerable amount of time in restrictive confinement on death row before they are executed, if they ever are executed. This delay is not always attributable to the litigation of legal issues. While awaiting execution, capital defendants experience mental anguish. This anguish should be viewed as an ancillary, unauthorized punishment that makes no measurable contribution to acceptable goals of punishment. It is cruel
Seth 06
punishment. "Executing a defendant who has experienced years of that mental anguish would seem to be the infliction of gratuitous pain and suffering, particularly if the capital defendant has experienced a change of character while on death row"(Dwight). Death-penalty states as a group do not have lower rates of criminal homicide than non-death penalty states. "During the 1980s, death-penalty states averaged an annual rate of 7. 5 criminal homicides per 100,000 of population; abolition states averaged a rate of 7.4"(Horwitz 45) . Use of the death penalty in a given state may increase the subsequent rate of criminal homicide in that state. In New York, for example, between 1907 and 1964, 692 executions were carried out. On the average, over this 57-year period, one or more executions in a given month aided a net increase of two homicides to the total committed in the next month "(Meador 16) . In neighboring states -- one with the death penalty and the others without it -- the one with the death penalty does not show a consistently lower rate of criminal homicide. "For example, between 1972 and 1990, the homicide rate in Michigan (which ha s no death penalty) was generally as low as or lower than the neighboring state of Indiana, which restored the death penalty in 1973 and since then has sentenced 70 persons to death and carried out 2 executions ."(Bedau)
Racial discrimination was one of the grounds in ruling the death penalty unconstitutional. Since the revival of the death penalty in the mid-1970s, about half of those on death row at any given time have been black -- a disproportionately large fraction given the black/white ratio of the total population, but not so obviously unfair if judged by the fact that roughly 50 percent of all those arrested for murder were also black. Both sex and socio-economic class are also factors that enter into determining who receives a death sentence and who is executed. During the 1980s and aerially 1990s, only about I percent of all those on death row were women, even though
Seth 07
women commit about 15 percent of all criminal homicides. A third or more of the women under death sentence were guilty of killing men who had victimized them with years of violent abuse. Since 1930, only 33 women (12 of them black) have been executed in the United States. Discrimination against the poor (and in our society racial minorities are disproportionately poor) is also well established. "Approximately ninety percent of those on death row could not afford to hire a lawyer when they were tried." (Bedau).A defendant's poverty, lack of firm social roots in the community, inadequate legal representation at trial or on appeal--all these have been common factors among death-row populations.
A case in Texas from the 1980s tells one a sordid story. In 1980 a black high school janitor, Clarence Brandley, and his white co-worker found the body of a missing 15-year-old white schoolgirl. Interrogated by the police, they were told, " One of you two is going to hang for this." Looking at Brandley, the officer said, "Since you're the nigger, you're elected." In a classic case of rush to judgment, Brandley was tried, convicted, and sentenced to death. The circumstantial evidence against him was thin, other leads were ignored by the police, and the courtroom atmosphere reeked of racism. In 1986 Centurion Ministries -- a volunteer group devoted to freeing wrongly convicted prisoners -- came to Brandley's aid. Evidence had meanwhile emerged that another man had committed the murder for which Brandley was awaiting execution. Brandley was not released until 1990. This story above has a reassuring ending: The innocent prisoner is saved from execution and is released. But when prisoners are executed, no legal forum exists in which unanswered questions about their guilt can be resolved.
The traditional mode of execution, still available in a few states, is hanging. Death on the gallows is easily bungled: If the drop is too short, there will be a slow and agonizing death by
Seth 08
strangulation. If the drop is too long, the head will be torn off. Two states, Idaho and Utah, still authorize the firing squad. The prisoner is strapped into a chair, and hooded. A target is pinned to the chest. Five marksmen, one with blanks, take aim and fire. Electrocution has been the most widely used form of execution in this country in this century. The condemned prisoner is led--or dragged--into the death chamber, strapped into the chair, and electrodes are fastened to head and legs. When the switch is thrown the body strains, jolting as the voltage is raised and lowered. Often smoke rises from the head. There is the awful odor of burning flesh. No one knows how long electrocuted individuals retain consciousness.
An attempt to improve on electrocution was the gas chamber. The prisoner is strapped into a chair, a container of sulfuric acid underneath. The chamber is sealed, and cyanide is dropped into the acid to form lethal gas. The latest mode of inflicting the death penalty, enacted into law by nearly two dozen states, is lethal injection, first used in Texas in 1982. It is easy to overstate the humaneness and efficacy of this method. There is no way of knowing that it is really painless. As Supreme Court Justice Arthur J. Goldberg wrote, "The deliberate institutionalized taking of human life by the state is the greatest conceivable degradation to the dignity of the human personality"("crime magazine").
A decent and humane society does not deliberately kill human beings. An execution is a dramatic, public spectacle of official, violent homicide that teaches the permissibility of killing people to solve social problems -- the worst possible example to set for society. "In this century, governments have too often attempted to justify their lethal fury by the benefits such killing would bring to the rest or society. The bloodshed is real and deeply destructive of the common decency of the community; the benefits are illusory"(Bedau ).
Seth 09
When you look at all these circumstances combined, it is futile to argue for the death penalty. In other words the facts shown stand against it. I believe that capital punishment is wrong and does not have a place in our society. " We shall therefore continue to seek to prevent executions and to abolish capital punishment by litigation, legislation , commutation, or by the weight of a renewed public outcry against this brutal and brutalizing institution "(Bedau). In the end, the death penalty looks to be nothing but legalized murder, and there is no other solution but to execute the death penalty once and for all.
Seth 10
