Brown 9
Spencer Brown
Eng. 105
Ms. Beagen
Extended Argument
May 5th, 2009
High School Testing, What a Waste of Time
As American citizens everyone is entitled to things called civil liberties, such as freedom of speech, religion, and privacy. Every now and again these liberties are challenged. One big challenge that American citizens are currently facing is drug testing in high school, the tests are mainly focusing on students that participate in after hour activities such as sports or clubs, but affect more than just the student athletes they affect the community as a whole. It is the responsibility as citizens to defend the civil liberties that are granted to them, they must protect the rights of the youth in America as well. The drug tests pose more problems than just ethical ones, cost is a big factor in these tests. The tests are very expensive to administer. The students of America have a lot of pressures on them without the added weight of "random" drug tests. These tests do not just only affect students but it also affects communities as a whole. Where do you think the money comes from to perform these tests? Taxpayer dollars should not go towards testing high school students, it just is not a good way to spend the taxpayers dollars. Testing high school athletes is an ineffective way to spend money, its unethical and it does not efficiently deter student athletes from using drugs and steroids.
The cost of testing our student athletes is a main deterrent to the public when it comes to implementing plans for a universal testing system. The facts on the matter are that testing athletes for steroids is just not a good way for people to spend their money. Some states have actually tried this out like Florida and Texas with unpleasant results. Texas in particular has tested tens of thousands of young athletes mainly those who compete in football and girls volleyball. The first ten thousand tests however found only four positive results (Dallas Morning News). This is where the whole problem with drug testing lies, in regards to cost. Why would a country bother to waste its money on testing its high school athletes if they were only going to find four positive results? Four out of ten thousand is not even one whole percent, with the results as bad as they are states should just cut the whole program. The problem with the program that Texas has is that its price tag is $6 million dollars. This makes it easy for critics to disagree with testing. Why have tests when they aren't even bringing back results? Some fans of the program say that it isn't results they want to see, but without results there is no proof to the effectiveness of the tests. Republican state Senator Dan Patrick of Houston, has been a vocal critic of the tests, calling them a "colossal waste of taxpayer money" that could be better spent battling recreational drug and alcohol use among teens (Dallas Morning News 1). Even though it may seem like a good plan to keep all schools testing it just isn't feasible to do so. For example keeping the current plan in Texas going would cost each school an extra $4,709 every two years (Dallas Morning News). This may not seem like a lot but people must think about schools in rural areas that really can't afford such costs. Especially when they could spend their money on reducing gang violence or something that is better for their community, for example better technology for the schools like new computers and science labs. Especially in today's society the U.S. economy can't afford to be spending dollars in places where it isn't useful. In Florida they stopped their pilot steroid testing program because of the lack of resulting positive tests. The state only found 1 positive test out of 600 teens tested State officials said that in the tough economy, they couldn't justify spending the $100,000. The tests in Florida were randomly administered at 53 schools, each test was $166 (Gainesville). Because the states aren't giving states money schools are using grant money to test the student athletes, that may seem alright until the other uses of that money are realized. For example new athletic fields and gymnasiums could be crated with the grant money, using that money for steroid testing is a very illegitimate use of grant money. Cristina Alvarez, a spokeswoman for the Florida Athletic Association puts it into good perspective when she says, "we completely understand, we know that money has to go to certain things right now to help the entire state, not just one association."(Gainesville). It is that understanding that the population needs to have on the subject. The cost of the tests is just one factor of the total cost involved. Other costs that would arise from steroid testing would be payments to the people that issue the tests and payments to the companies that read the tests. At one glance you would think that just anyone could issue these tests, but that is not the case. Training goes into learning how to administer the test and only professionals are allowed to give the tests. This poses a problem because these costs aren't included in programs budgets, such as the program in Texas. Now some would argue that this would be a good thing because it would give more people jobs, but it does not happen that way. Because steroid testing is just a seasonal thing it would mean that people would be forced to go through specialized training to only work for a span of around three months. So all of the time and money that was put into the program would go to waste because the jobs are solely short term. The issue of steroid testing does however go deeper than just cost, there are other factors that go into it.
Another big factor in this whole issue is the ethics of invading the privacy of American high school students. As citizens in the United States people have the right to privacy from the public. If these testes were standardized then it would mean that high school students don't have the same rights as every other citizen in the U.S.? It is unfair to test high school students on what they do when they are not in school. If parents choose to administer tests to their children then that is one thing but when a public identity such as a school district steps in that is crossing the line. Targeted steroid testing misses the mark because of what it tells the youth of America. It is telling young adults that because you choose to be a part of extra-curricular activities you are subject to having your rights revoked. That can't be the lesson that America wants its children to have, or can it? The American Academy of Pediatrics had this to say on the subject.
"We are also concerned about the effects of this potential invasion of an adolescent's privacy. Some students will sit in class studying our constitutional protection against unreasonable search and seizure and then be compelled to produce a urine specimen against their will. What is the lesson here? Drug testing is best employed as a routine component of a drug treatment program to ensure maintenance of abstinence." This is a very clear and precise way to look at this situation. On one hand drug testing is a good thing, it can help someone who has had previous bouts with addiction remain clean knowing that they will be tested soon. But for football and volleyball players to be subject to these tests is more than just, not right, it is an invasion of privacy which is given to each citizen with the fourth amendment. To deny this to the students of America is irresponsible and should not be allowed. When children go to school they are not just there to learn academically. Today in high school more learning goes on outside the classroom. Kids learn how to interact with others and make decisions on their own. If the opportunity to use drugs happens it should be that child's decision whether or not to use them. Hopefully the child's parents have prepared them enough to make the correct choice. Drug testing can be used to scare these children away from the thoughts of trying drugs, but no matter what happens in the end it is up to the student and how they were raised. Just like in everyday life people break laws even though they know there are consequences, not everyone breaks the laws though because they know better than to do that. Schools may like to think that they have a power in stopping kids from using drugs and steroids but they really don't the decision lies in the hands of the student.
Accuracy of drug testing is another problem offered up by random drug testing in high school. Drug tests claim that they have a 99% efficiency rate, that sounds great but it still leaves room for error, which is something that cannot be allowed when it comes to American children's futures in the classroom or on the playing field. For example if the ten thousand tests that were issued out when testing first started, then 99% of these tests would have been valid but 1% or 100 people would have been incorrectly found guilty of using drugs. This may not seem like a whole lot but, for those one hundred kids and their families, that is a very serious deal. This could mean for seniors, a loss of academic or athletic scholarships, suspension or expulsion, and even legal consequences. Before something like drug testing can be implemented into society there must be a way to be one hundred percent clear on positive drug results. Because if the tests are not one hundred percent accurate then how can the falsely accused be protected? There are other things that can even further skew these results. For example some over the counter medicine such as Ibuprofen can cause, what is now by the medical world, a false positive. Other things such as poppy seeds can cause a false positive for opiates such as cocaine. These weaknesses in the testing process make it difficult for anyone to agree with testing high school students.
Lastly, most people who agree with drug testing in high schools agree with it because they believe that drug testing acts as a deterrent to drug use. The problem with that point is that it just flat out is not true. The Supreme Court has twice empowered schools to test for drugs, first among student athletes in 1995, then for those in other extracurricular activities last year. Both times, it cited the role that screening plays in combating substance abuse as a rationale for impinging on whatever privacy rights students might have. But the new federally financed study of 76,000 students nationwide, by far the largest to date, found that drug use is just as common in schools with testing as in those without it (Winter 1). Drug use in high school has actually declined slightly in the last two decades, not because of some drug-testing program that was implemented but because students are becoming more educated on the facts. It is pretty foolish to think that because someone who participates in extra-curricular activates might get tested he or she would stay away from the drugs. Because if someone is already addicted or hooked to the drugs the tests won't be a good enough preventative for them to stop. ''I don't think that drug testing works all the time, in all situations,'' Mr. Aultman said. ''And the truth is there were many kids who said, 'Yeah, we quit while we were in season and once the season was over we went back to using drugs' ''(Winter 2). This is also the scary reality of drug testing, the truth is it really doesn't do anything to stop drug use. It might make students quite for a certain amount of time, or just stop using before the tests are administered but it doesn't stop them from using drugs at all. It could even force kids into cheating on their tests, there are products out there that can "fool" drug tests by giving them false readings. If students were forced to do those sorts of things then that would be more detrimental to their social skills than drugs themselves.
Drug testing student athletes is not good for America for one it costs way too much money for too little results. It has been tried by some states but has failed, why keep trying to push something that isn't working. Why try and fix something that isn't broken. With the results from the few years of testing why doesn't the United States see that there really isn't a big problem with steroid use in high school? Hopefully in the future the U.S. can realize that steroids aren't affecting high school sports and after school activities like it is in the worlds of professional sports. These tests, if continued, would poison student's minds on issues such as freedom of privacy and freedom to avoid illegal searches and seizures. These tests cost too much first of all and in this economic time extra costs that are not beneficiary should not be allowed. Also these tests are not one hundred percent accurate, which allows for students to be falsely accused of using drugs and steroids. As well as the facts against steroid testing as being a deterrent to drug use. All in all drugs will be a part of high school's across America no matter what the government tries to do to stop it. Drug testing however, is not something the government should try to implement because of all the things that are faulty with drug testing.
