Daniel Watson
English 105
Belknap
April 21, 2009
Discussing Bottled Water Versus Tap Water: Facts, Theories, and Opinions
Let's go over a likely believe: I drink bottled water because it's healthier, and it tastes better. Although I do hate to be the one who negatively rejects statements such as this, on which some people so naively believe to be true, this particular statement is the first void sentence of this essay (I promise, there won't be many more). Drinking bottled water has become the "high class" way to consume h2o in America. It needs to stop. Not only does bottled water destroy our environment and habitats of animals, it also is harmful to one's health. Due to these facts, it's clear that in order to create the most good for the most people, our planet needs to end this absurd bottled water phase, and begin drinking more tap water.
Let's start with the obvious point: all this bottled water is harming our environment. According to Annie Gentile (Think Quest), over 17 million barrels of oil are used each year to create the bottled water our world consumes on an annual basis. This contributes to the 92 million gallons of oil that is polluting our eco-system from up in smoke factory fumes. This in air oil pollution often in turn kills flying animals. Birds can recover extra weight from polluted air, and develop hypothermia; in the end putting their life to a premature ending. However, birds aren't the only victims of polluted airs. It turns out that humans are at risk of a similar fate. The polluted air that we consistently breathe increases our risk of lung cancer (Portnov, et al). This happens because of kernel density levels increasing in polluted areas, basically meaning there is an abundance of waste that slows down our breathing and respiratory cycle inside heavily polluted areas. The air isn't the only place that gets polluted just from bottled water factory smoke. These factories contribute to the oil that ends up in the ocean, which in turns suffocates all the members of the top layer oceanic beings. The oil in the ocean cuts off the oxygen available to plants in animals, killing them quickly. To make a long story short, those of us drinking bottled water are killing not only birds and other flying animals, but humans and oceanic habitants as well.
On top of this, bottled water waste is becoming an urgent issue. The number of empty water bottles is turning into one that worries us concerned citizens. According to an industry consultant R. W. Beck, Inc, only 12% of empty water bottles were recycled in the year the study was conducted. In concurrence, over 40 million bottles were wasted or littered (Llanos). So what does this mean? Just an extremely unnecessary hinder to our scenic global community? Yes, aside from the "just". It is so apparent that the water bottles not being recycled are being mostly littered. How many times has anyone gone a week without seeing an empty bottle on the ground, somewhere? The answer is very few, littered water bottles have become almost as common as littered cigarettes, especially on college campuses. In addition to the scenery destruction, the extra waste obviously leads to extra waste management, which commits our economy to extra oil drilling, a fact that some scientists claim will assist in the inevitable global warming. How much waste does tap water create? None.
The next question is this: does bottled water truly taste better, or is this just an inflated rumor that has been concocted by greedy bottled water corporations, looking for additional sales. I personally cannot taste the difference, but I am simply one college student out of the trillions of people in the world. Let me clear one thing up before I elaborate on this: it's ALL water. There are countless bottled water companies out there, all saying that their water is THE special beverage. In a blind taste test conducted by John Strossel, over 500 randomized residents of New York tasted 8 different water sources. The water test consisted of water from a New York water fountain, some more "high class" water bottles such as Evian and Fiji, and some cheaper brands such as K-Mart's corporation branded water. The results of the test showed that while some water was preferred, the tap water was the third most liked. The astonishing part of the test was that Evian's water, the most expensive of all that was tasted, was in last place by far, and K-Mart's corporation, cheaper bottled water was the winner (Stossel). Some of the participants who preferred the tap water even commented that Evian's water "tasted as toilet water would." In short, it isn't the price of the water bottle that determines the taste, and if you are buying the expensive brands, most likely you're simply buying the corporation's propaganda. Not only this, but the fact that the tap water placed third over popular brands such as Dasani and Aquafina, shows that tap water does not always taste worse, as the common believe states.
In my own personal survey, I asked over 50 different people which they preferred the most, strictly according to taste: bottled water, tap water, or purified water. While many people said that they do drink bottled water for the taste, none of the surveyed individuals could say that the bottled water was a better tasting beverage then the purified tap water; and some even said they prefer tap water. The significance of this is that if we take the time to purify water from any source, it can be better taste wise than any bottled up version.
Another huge factor of bottled water is the cost. Bottled water, depending on the brand, quantity, and "quality" purchased, can cost anywhere from 30 cents a bottle to four dollars a bottle. A typical bottle of water has around 20 ounces of water. Let's take a small break from health, environment, and money, and do some math.
According to Dr. Thomas Stearns Lee, the human body is made up of 75% water. To function properly, you need enough water for every hour that you're awake to function properly. A 150 pound individual needs 9 ounces of water for every hour of being awake. Without this necessary amount, he or she may experience heartburn, depression, or stomach aches. On average, everyone needs this much every hour, which indeed proves the "8 cups a day" myth to be true.
Let's take the average and say a bottle of water is 75 cents a piece, each containing 20 ounces of water. If one drinks 3 bottles of water daily, he or she is consuming 7. 5 cups of water; for metaphorical purposes we can call this close enough to the recommended amount. This means that one spends $2. 25 a day on bottled water, assuming he or she intakes 7. 5 cups a day. This may not seem like much, but this adds up to $15. 75 a week, $63 a month, and $756 a year. As a college student, I would much rather spend this $756 on a month of rent and utilities, or save it for something that I have always been wanting. To sum all that up: what would you rather have, $756, or a beverage inside of a bottled that can be acquired for free from your sink? There is no right answer, but if I were you I would take the money.
However, this is just for the simple and cheap water bottles. Many people get the high class and expensive Figi water bottles; which can run almost at $2. 50 a bottle. This would mean over $3,000 a year on water! Different water brands cost drastically different.
Many people also feel that tap water is unhealthy for people to consume. The majority of these people claim that the minerals "contaminate the water." However, this is not true. 20/20, a branch that conducts experiments for ABC News sent 5 bottled water samples and 2 tap water samples to a renowned microbiologist at the University of New Hampshire, Aaron Margolin. Margolin tested all 7 samples for miscellaneous bacteria and minerals that can make one sick. After doing so, he stated that there was "little to no difference in the samples." This is one of countless tests by legitimate scientists that proves bottled water is simply just ask "healthy" as tap water. As I said above: it's all water, it's difficult to make it unhealthy or dangerous.
To sum it all up, bottled water is the worth way to consume water. It's not only destructive to the environment, animals, and even humans, but the costly prices of bottled water drastically affect people's wallets. This all happens while tap water is available for free, and water purifiers are available to purchase at many different household stores. Tap water is the best way to get the 8 cups a day, without question.
