Turbochargers vs. Superchargers
If you like to go fast, you want a fast car and fast cars need fast engines. One of the best ways to go from an average of 166 horsepower in your car to a car nearing 1,000 horsepower that can go one quarter of a mile in under 10 seconds is to turbo charge or supercharge your engine (Agency). Superchargers and turbochargers both increase engine performance but neither has been proven better than the other, as evident by an article in The New York Times about Volkswagen's twincharged engine with both a supercharger and a turbocharger working together. The author of the article states that "Engineers are still trying to determine whether turbochargers or superchargers are superior at increasing an engine's performance" (SHERMAN). In the last 50 years or so, the debate has become more technical as drivers are looking into forced induction options to push their performance engines. It seems that all the disadvantages of using a supercharger are eliminated by using a turbocharger which in turn has its own disadvantages that are eliminated by using a supercharger. The ideal setup would be a combination of both which, although it has been done, is very complicated and rare. To choose which one is better is very difficult and also depends on the application. This paper will discuss how turbochargers are superior to superchargers for racing applications; however the advantages of superchargers over turbochargers in other applications will be addressed, as well as typical engines.
Forced induction engines are merely engines that contain a unit to compress and force additional air into an engine. This additional air creates more power. These units generally include superchargers and turbochargers. Both have been around since the early twentieth century, and have been used for various applications. Turbochargers were even used on aircraft during WWII. Today, Racing is a major reason why people may decide to supercharge or turbo charge an engine. Racing requires high speed and fast acceleration. Both superchargers and turbochargers can provide better performance for racing than a normal engine containing neither unit. Turbochargers, specifically, provide high amounts of boost to increase acceleration and make your car move very quickly. Although superchargers can do the same, turbochargers can produce more boost than a supercharger is able to, because of the turbochargers many advantages.
Turbocharger Air Flow
1 Compressor Inlet
2 Compressor Discharge
3 Charge air cooler (CAC)
4 Intake Valve
5 Exhaust Valve
6 Turbine Inlet
7 Turbine Discharge
The following is a diagram to help better understand the process of the turbocharger. It shows the flow of air, how the turbocharger is powered, and how it creates power.
(Turbo Tech 101 ( Basic ))
Outside air enters the turbocharger through the compressor inlet (1-2), a turbine that sucks air in; it then travels through the intercooler (3) where it gets cooled before entering the engine. It then enters the engine through the intake valve (4) of a cylinder, after the combustion process it exits through the exhaust valve (5) and into the turbochargers turbine (6-7). As exhaust passes through this turbine, it simultaneously spins the turbine on the compressor inlet (1) side of the turbo. This causes the turbine to draw air into the turbocharger and the engine and begin the cyclical process; this is how it is able to draw more air into the engine (How 2009). That technical explanation may be confusing; so, think of the turbocharger like this: it cannot suck more air into the engine until high amounts of exhaust are being pushed out of the tail pipe. The exhaust gases spin a small turbine that is inside the exhaust (6-7). This turbine is hooked to another turbine (1-2), so as the exhaust turns the first turbine, that turbine spins the second one that it is hooked to. The job of the second turbine is to suck air in and compress it. All the air it sucks in is forced into the engine for higher performance. So essentially, you need more exhaust to get more power, which is why it takes a small amount of time for the turbocharger to build up boost.
The supercharger works similarly, except that the exhaust is not what powers the turbine to suck air in. On a supercharger, a belt from the engine's crankshaft spins the compression turbine sucking air in, compressing it, and forcing it into the engine. It is a slightly simpler design than the turbocharger. To help illustrate the idea of the supercharger, below is a picture showing a supercharger in a car as well as the pulley and belt from the engine that drives it. There is also a diagram showing the basic air flow and powering of the supercharger.
Supercharger
Belt & pulley that drive the supercharger
Pulley that is spun by the belt
Turbine that draws and compresses the air. Spun by the belt and pulley.
Turbochargers have several other advantages over superchargers. The first one is weight; the turbocharger weighs significantly less than the supercharger (Nice). This is not a big difference; however, it is something to consider when dealing specifically with racing. This is because when racing drivers look want high amounts of power to go fast, but if their car weighs too much, it will put more load on the engine and not be as fast as a lighter car. The second advantage of the turbocharger is that it does not provide boost at low RPMs. RPMs are the speed at which the engine is spinning; it stands for revelations per minute. A lack of boost at low RPMs is good for racing because if you have too much boost at the start, you may end up just spinning your tires in place for a short period of time (also known as a burnout) and not getting a good start (Boodasingh). It is also important because when simply driving through town, the low boost from a supercharger could reduce fuel economy as it pumps more air into the engine, requiring more fuel to be burned. This is something that the turbocharger avoids by producing boost only at higher engine speeds (De Mere). Another important advantage of the turbocharger is that it does not require power from the engine for power. It uses exhaust that would normally be wasted. This is significant because drivers do not have to sacrifice any power from the engine to make power; it uses wasted energy (Ferrari). Nevertheless, there are a couple major disadvantages to the turbocharger. These include the following: lag in power delivery, lack of long-term durability because the parts wear out quickly, and modification to the engine necessary to ensure the turbocharger does not destroy the engine. When applying a turbocharger to an engine, it is necessary to lower the engine's compression ratio and increase the strength of its internal parts as well as the transmission to avoid destroying imperative parts of the engine due to the extra horsepower. However, turbochargers are still superior to superchargers. As for applications, because turbochargers provide greater peak power, they are mostly used on high RPM applications such as 4 cylinder engines in import style cars. Some cars that can be purchased stock with a turbocharger include the Subaru WRX STI, the Mitsubishi Evo, and various others. Not as many cars come from the factory with a turbocharger or supercharger as much as fifteen or twenty years ago when many more cars came stock with turbochargers. The turbocharger has important advantages compared to the supercharger, yet the supercharger does have some advantages over the turbocharger.
The main advantage that the supercharger holds over the turbocharger is that the supercharger can produce an immediate boost and do it at very low engine speeds (RPMs). Because the turbocharger is powered by a turbine in the exhaust system, it produces what is called turbo lag. This lag is because as the driver steps on the accelerator the turbocharger cannot produce an effective amount of boost until there is an increase in exhaust flow to spin the turbine and produce a boost. The supercharger lacks this problem because it is powered by a direct connection to the engine's crankshaft pulley via a belt. Because of this, the supercharger can immediately produce boost as soon as there is an increase in the engines RPMs (De Mere). This is not always desired as mentioned above, but it can be useful for faster starts in racing if you can get a good start. It is most useful in applications such as trucks or muscle cars with V8 engines. This is because V8s contain high amounts of torque and generally do not run at as high of RPMs as smaller engines. Trucks are usually used for low end power with low engine speeds whether it is for pulling or offroading. Because a supercharger can produce good boost at very slow engine speeds, it can provide a significant amount of extra power for trucks. A notable supercharger that has been gaining popularity recently is the Toyota TRD Supercharger. These superchargers provide a very noticeable increase in horsepower and torque and are a great addition for big trucks. In an article about the new supercharger applied to a Toyota Sequoia and a Toyota Tundra, it was stated that the "New TRD Supercharger [was] Reportedly Rated at 504-Horsepower for [the] 5.7-Liter V8." That's a significant 123 horsepower increase from the normal 5.7-liter V8 without the supercharger (Levine). Even with these advantages, there are some disadvantages. The main disadvantage of the supercharger is its use of engine power for it to work. It runs off the engine's power to create power and generally produces less peak power than a turbocharger. Although the supercharger has many advantages, the turbochargers advantages are more significant. On the other hand, the average driver may not need a turbocharger or a supercharger.
Some people may not need or want increased engine performance. This is why daily driven type cars, not sport or performance cars, generally come stock with naturally aspirated engines. Naturally aspirated engines are those that contain no form of forced induction. Because forced induction engines force greater amounts of air into the engine, they require more fuel to be burned and therefore reduce the overall fuel economy of the vehicle. Forced induction would probably not be beneficial to any daily driven vehicles even though it increases power. With the constant increase of technology there are certain options to conserve fuel and gain performance, such as superchargers with clutches that only engage at higher engine speeds, as well as other various options. However, these options come at a much greater cost and are not as common as normal superchargers, turbochargers, or naturally aspirated engines. Naturally aspirated engines may be the best option for the majority of drivers.
After looking at the options, consider which one fits you. A simple naturally aspirated engine to get from one place to another without wasting too much gas. A supercharged engine, or a turbocharged engine for high performance and power. For power and performance the turbochargers advantages outweigh those of the supercharger. The turbocharger is lighter, more fuel efficient, and doesn't rob engine power. There are many options out there to get more power from your engine. Although, if you are looking for a powerful engine; turbochargers definitely meet all the needs of a modern performance vehicle to give you a "boost" to the finish.
Sources
Agency, Environmental Protection. "U.S. Average Horspower of a New Vehicle." 1996. Energy Information Administration. 4 April 2009 <http://www.eia.doe.gov/emeu/25opec/sld012.htm>.
Ba lant , Kal c . "Supercharger and Blower Basics." 2 October 2007. car modifiye & modifiye parcalar burada. 16 April 2009 <http://images.google.com/imgres?imgurl=http://www.hamptonblowers.com/Duo E.JPG&imgrefurl=http://carsmodifiye.blogcu.com/Supercharger%2Band%2BBlower%2BBasics/&usg=__E-VO-YIv Iq5di Pln724u F5_0_d0=&h=399&w=500&sz=72&hl=en&start=11&sig2=PEIc Gz Nv Cs Pdhi Vk Qa Ke Cw&um>.
Boodasingh, Duane. "Turbochargers vs. Superchargers." 27 Jan 2005. Ezine Articles. 30 Mar 2009 <http://ezinearticles.com/? Turbochargers-vs.-Superchargers&id=11280>.
De Mere, Mac. "The Inside Story: Understanding Superchargers & Turbochargers." Nov 1996. Motor Trend. 24 Mar 2009 <http://www.motortrend.com/roadtests/tuners/112_9611_understanding_superchargers_and_turbochargers/index.html>.
Ferrari, Brian. " Overview: Supercharger vs. Turbocharger." 19 Jul 2004. Automotive Articles. 11 Mar 2009 <http://www.automotivearticles.com/Supercharger_vs_Turbocharger_.shtml>.
"How A Turbo System Works." 2005-2006. Garrett. 4 April 2009 <http://www.turbobygarrett.com/turbobygarrett/tech_center/turbo_tech101.html>.
Levine, Mike. "New TRD Supercharger Reportedly Rated at 504-Horsepower for 5.7-Liter V8." 09 April 2008. Pickup Truck.com. 24 April 2009 <http://www.pickuptrucks.com/html/news/toyota/tundra/trd/is-rated-at-504-hp.html>.
Nice, Karim. "How Turbochargers Work." 1998-2009. How Stuff Works. 24 Mar 2009 <http://auto.howstuffworks.com/turbo1.htm>.
Shelton, J. "Supercharging vs. Turbocharging: Extinct? Exotic? or Extraordinaire? ." 07 April 2007. Nut Lugs. 24 April 2009 <http://209.200.66.194/Nutlugscom/Blog/tabid/104/article Type/Article View/article Id/15/Default.aspx>.
SHERMAN, DON. "Teaming Up to Power Up ." The New York Times 12 March 2009: AU10.
"Super Chargers." 2008. Chaseusmotorsports. 15 April 2009 <http://chaseusmotorsports.com/Super%20Chargers.htm>.
"Turbo Tech 101 ( Basic )." 2005-2006. Garrett by Honeywell. 24 April 2009 <http://www.turbobygarrett.com/turbobygarrett/tech_center/turbo_tech101.html>.
