A Cruel Research- Extended Argument Essay
Picture this in your mind, in the future you and your spouse are having problems with pregnancy. You desperately want a child, but there are complications, the only solution is in vitro fertilization. You arrive at the clinic and go through the procedure. In time, the fertilization is successful. You have the potential for life, an embryo that can become your precious baby. Now the last thing to be done is to determine what will happen to the extra embryos that have been created. The doctor comes in with a consent form. 'You can donate these unused embryos to research that can save lives' he tells you. At this point, you think, I want to save lives and you sign the consent form and send your embryos to the nearest stem cell research plant. But what happens to embryos that are elected for stem cell research? There are other options for stem cell research that do not require the dismembering of human embryos. Embryonic stem cell research is destructive and murderous.
Embryonic stem cell testing has become a popular research among most scientists,
the reason behind this is because they are so moldable. Theoretically embryonic stem cells can be used to fulfill any function that your body needs. But what many people do not know is that in order to attain these stem cells you have to dismember and kill the embryo that you take them from. I feel that this is grossly wrong. New technologies have been discovered that make testing embryonic stem cells look primitive. There are new advances in science that eclipse the use of embryonic stem cells entirely. If there is an option that allows you to save more than you kill I feel strongly about it. Stem Cells can be used to cure all types of infirmities and diseases, with more research. But when the treatment of these infirmities requires you to dismember and destroy human embryos, are you not first killing to preserve the life of others. Embryos are the potential of life, they grow to become babies. To use embryonic stem cells, when you have to kill them in order to do so, is wrong; especially when new advances are more efficient and do not require the use of embryonic involvement.
Many people are uneducated about stem cells so they care little about the research. In his book, The Unity of Form and Function, Kenneth Saladin explains what stem cells are, he defined them as, "undifferentiated cells that are not yet performing any specialized
function, but that have the potential to differentiate into one or more types of mature functional cells, such as liver, brain, cartilage, or skin cells"(Kenneth Saladin). He continues, " The growth and differentiation of tissues depends upon a supply of reserve stem cells"(Kenneth Saladin). This means that all of the tissues in your body came from stem cells and the body's ability to repair itself after having severe trauma depends on having a ready supply of stem cells that can be used. There are two types of these stem cells, adult and embryonic. Embryonic stem(ES) cells have the ability to differentiate, split, into any tissue type that the body needs. Adult stem(AS) cells are more specialized for distribution and can only split to create certain types of tissues.
An example of a stem cell's potential is outlined by author Jeffrey Kluger, in an issue of Time Europe. "Stem cells. have the potential to treat an astonishing range of ills, including Parkinson's disease, diabetes, Alzheimer's and spinal-cord injuries" (Time Europe, 2001). Stem cells can help to cure these, now incurable, debilitating diseases. These cells can be tested to alleviate the suffering of many. This is why research in this field is so important to the Scientific community. If there is a way to help an aged grandfather regain his memory I support it. This is why embryonic cells have such a
potential for science, they can still divide into all of the tissues in your body, including the ones that wear down with age. With the advancing of therapies and infusions of young stem cells the aging process can be halted and life can be extended far past the age of the mid 70's to late 80's.
However, this wonderful aspiration is where the split divides, this is a controversial topic for American people. Embryonic testing is an issue between pro-life supporters and what science deems a necessary loss. My support lies with those that support life. As I have stated, the harvesting of embryonic stem cells destroys the embryo. In doing this you kill the 'potential' of human life. Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal describes the process of extracting stem cells from the embryo. "Embryonic stem cells are derived from a living embryo through immunosurgical procedures that dissolve its outer membrane in order to expose the inner cell mass from which embryonic stem cells are extracted, before being cultured and induced to differentiate. The embryo quite literally is dismembered"(Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal). These embryos, if not scheduled for testing will grow into human children. I ask the question, if it is wrong to kill an innocent, a child that plays baseball with some friends in the field by your house, then is it also
wrong, on a smaller level, to kill a smaller form of that child. Human embryos are the start of human beings, naturally they grow to become adults if they are allowed.
This argument was particularly pronounced during George W. Bush's Presidency. In August 2001, President Bush placed high restrictions on the federal funding of Stem Cell Research plants, to appease pro-life petitioners. His bill outlined that no federal funding would be provided to the research done in new testing facilities. Bush was under scrutiny for this act, as shown in The New York Times, "he tried to steer an inoffensive course by limiting but not banning federal funding for stem cell studies. Unfortunately, he made the limitations much too tight by agreeing to finance only research on stem cell lines that had been created as of August 2001 from surplus embryos at fertility clinics. No new lines, either from surplus embryos subsequently generated at clinics or from other sources, would be eligible for federal support" (New York Times, October 2002). This bill made it so that any scientists that harvested stem cells after August of 2001 had to find private funding. This private funding usually meant hours of searching for sponsors who both, believed in the research, and had enough money to buy the expensive equipment that is required for these procedures.
Scientific advancements in this country were nearly halted completely. Simona Giordano, a lead scientist, said, "Stem cell research represents the most promising field of investigation for treatment of many degenerative diseases. The veto against research condemns millions of people to a life with little hope of cure" (Simona Giordano). With out the necessary funding from the government, expensive tools needed to continue the research that many had started, could not be purchased. Labs closed down because with out Federal Grant money they could not continue the research. Scientists could no longer experiment to find a cure for the debilitating diseases that had caused them to begin research in the first place. In passing the bill, America was no longer considered the leader of the modern world, as far as health was concerned.
Marlene Cimons speaks out against Bush's decision, to limit the funding for embryonic stem cell research plants, by denouncing his supposed political platform. "By doing so, the president is standing in the way of achieving the goal he professed to be aiming for: creating new therapeutic approaches to life threatening diseases. He does not understand that the so-called stem-cell lines he approved in 2001 do not exist, or are not available for the research to develop those therapies" (Nature Medicine). By going against
the political platform that he was elected for he received many accusations, like this one about his motives. In limiting governmental funding due to pro-life affiliates and religious activists he became scrutinized by the scientific world.
Similar to the political struggle Bush went through, scientists struggle with religious activists that proclaim there is a certain moral code that must be followed in these situations. Mark Brown, of the Kennedy Institute Ethics Journal, explains the stretch that these activists are willing to go to decree moral and political correctness; "traditional moral complicity theory holds that, under certain conditions, those who participate in cooperative activity that is morally evil may be held responsible as accomplices... Unless one retreats into moral isolation, shunning evil in all forms, one cannot escape participating in the historical injustices that shaped the modern world" (Kennedy Institute Ethics Journal, Mark Brown). He continues to say that if this is the case than anyone who consumes food that has been transported by rail train in the United States is condemned because trains that carry needed goods were built off of the slave labor of early immigrants from China. His comparison demonstrates how this form of thinking can get severely out of hand. He is essentially saying that, to consider an embryo
a human life is far too much of a stretch to be justified logically. He draws the conclusion that because a human embryo cannot survive on its own, without its mother's nutrition and feeding, such an organism is neither human nor a living thing yet.
However, there is one vital problem with embryonic stem cell research that many do not consider; there have been no successful human transplants from embryonic stem cells. This research is ineffective, in its purposes to cure diseases, as many scientists do not want to put their patient's in danger, ".many scientists believe that putting stem-cell-derived tissues into patients lies a long way off. Embryonic stem cells have their drawbacks. They cause tumors and adult cells derived from them may be rejected by the patient's immune system. Furthermore, whatever disease process caused the patient's tissue cells to die is likely to kill introduced cells as well. All these problems may be solvable, but so far none have been solved" (New York Times, March 2009). This danger to the host is unnecessary, and risky, as most host's bodies have an already compromised immune system. This makes them easy targets for infection and cancers that their body cannot fight off in its weakened condition. It is dangerous at this point to use embryonic stem cell implants.
With new technologies there is a solution, one that requires no involvement of embryonic stem cells. The New York Times tells of a Japanese biologist that made an important discovery which may finally end this controversial conflict. The report states, "the Japanese biologist Shinya Yamanaka found in 2007 that adult cells could be reprogrammed to an embryonic state with surprising ease. This technology 'may eventually eclipse the embryonic stem cell lines for therapeutic as well as diagnostics applications,' Dr. Kriegstein said. For researchers, reprogramming an adult cell can be much more convenient, and there have never been any restrictions on working with adult stem cells" (New York Times, March 2009). With this new technology there is no need to use embryonic stem cells at all. Adult stem cells can be extracted without harm to the adult's body and thus killing is not required to research cures for these diseases.
Since then more discoveries of revolutionary procedures have been discovered, Melinda Wenner wrote about a new procedure discovered in November of 2007 which turned, "ordinary adult skin cells into pluripotent stem cells-capable of becoming any kind of tissue-a feat that could solve the ethical problem forever" (Popular Science, Melinda Wenner). This discovery can allow many scientists to change their research, and
no longer operate and dismember young embryonic cells. They can begin the new and more effective approach of reprogramming existing adult cells.
On the subject of these two amazing teams of scientists, Richard Monastersky discusses options that the scientific community can now act on, "two teams of scientists reported . that they had developed lines of human stem cells almost identical to embryonic ones, using a procedure that does not involve destroying actual embryos" (Chronicle of Higher Education, Richard Monastersky). This option to delay and maybe alleviate the need to work with embryonic stem cells is good news to pro-life affiliates as well as scientists. A sort-of middle ground now exists that everyone can strive for. There is a way to find a cure for these diseases and that way involves new technology that will not harm any form of life.
There are many uses of stem cells and many cures to be found with more research. However, testing on embryonic stem cells is an unnecessary loss that should be eclipsed. If there were no other choice than to test on embryonic stem cells then the cause of so many thousand people suffering may be enough. But there is now another option. There are new technologies that make embryonic testing seem primitive and outdated, an
unnecessary exploitation of the potential of life. There is a better cure, there is a more advanced way. These alternatives lie in testing new technologies that are better for everyone. There is no need to sacrifice life for the greater good, when a more advanced, safer option is on the horizon.
