Armida Reddig
Betsy Jo Divine
ENG 105
April 30, 2009
Should We Help The Hungry?
963 million people througout the world are hungry, yet people continue to throw out edible food ("World"). In the United States, most people use the word "hungry" when the clock ticks twelve and it is lunchtime. Sadly, for many this is not the case. The dictionary defines the hunger that millions of people experience as a "painful sensation or state of weakness caused by the need of food" (Dictionary.com). In addition, this is not a simple stomachache; people die from such pain and weakness. This paper will discuss the domestic and worldwide problem of hunger, demonstrate the quatity of United States waste, and discuss how Americans can take action to help in their own country. In order to assist in relieving domestic hunger, Americans need to become aware of the issue's severity, and the frequencies of generous donations must be increased, because the United States will be a stronger country if the excess amounts of food were placed somewhere other than a trashcan.
The United States is one of the wealthiest countries in the world, but still experiences hunger issues. According to United States Department of Agriculture reasearch, "4. 0 percent of U.S. households experience hunger. 11. 1 million people, including 430 thousand children, live in hungry homes" ("Hunger"). Most Americans only consider the problem of hunger to occur in other countries, but these shocking statistics show that the U.S. has problems as well. The Americans who live in hunger omit meals when they have no other choice, due to financial problems, and sometimes go a whole day without eating ("Hunger"). When they are fortunate enough to get a meal, it is most likely moderately small and possibly lacks nutrition ("Hunger"). An incentive for a U.S. citizen to conserve and donate food is that one cannot only help the world problem of hunger, but their own country, a neighbor, or a familiar face.
Although the statistics regarding the amount of hunger-pladues Americans is shockingly high, on a global scale hunger statistics are drastically elevated. The 11. 1 million people living with hunger in the U.S. hardly constitutes a dent in the 963 million people living with hunger worldwide. The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) organized a study to determine the child death rate due to starvation. The study revealed knowledge that in 2006 "about 9. 7 million children died before they reached their fifth birthday" (Bread.org). Not only did these children die far too young, they also lived their lives suffering from hunger and malnurishment. These children experienced weakness, a side effect of hunger, which is not a common characteristic of a healthy child. Being in a state of weakeness affects one's childhood play, which fortunate Americans take for granted. Pediatric Research, studied in the United States, shows that "preschool and school-aged children who experience severe hunger have higher levels of chronic illness, anxiety and depression, and behavior problems than children with no hunger" ("Hunger"). Envision being hungry all of the time, scavenging for food, and not knowing when and where the next meal will come from. Americans need to realize that they are a part of the world problem of hunger, and have a moral obligation to help prevent it. A portion of the 9. 7 million children whose lives were taken by hunger were American children. Taking action now, can help prevent America's portion of the statistic from growing larger. It can help the number of 35. 5 million people-including 12. 6 million children-living in households that experience hunger or the risk of hunger decrease ("Hunger"). This risk of hunger already represents more than one in ten households in America, and we must try to prevent it from rising. The children and adults getting plagued with hunger in America are the people who U.S. citizens can aid directly in their daily lives, if they are motivated by information.
U.S. citizens throw away food that is perfectly edible, which could have been consumed by another if donated or simply not piled on one's plate. In Lars Eighner's article, "On Dumpster Diving," he illustrates, by personal experience, that someone can literally live off what is thrown in the garbage (6). His authoritive article informs readers on the ways to analyze certain foods, for edible quality, to keep healthy while eating waste. Although Lars lived off dumpsters for many years, he is now fortunate enough to recognize and acknowledge that it is not the healthiest way to live (7). However, the fact that someone really can live off of dumpster diving is astounding. Simply thinking about how much edible food must be in the garbage, in order to give adaquate amounts of food to dumpster divers, is nauseating. Americans need to become aware of their massive amounts of waste and start taking ethical responsibility to conserve edible food for the hungry.
The majority of U.S. citizens are not living with hunger; therefore, it is difficult to recongnize the severity of the domestic hunger problem. Few set aside time to research statistics of domestic issues, and in return merely see hunger as a minimal problem. Statistics overshadow this thought, because they show that hunger is a sufficient problem in need of attention and combat. Because of the general apathy towards the problem, everyone who has the knowledge of hunger issues must act in their daily lives to help. Keeping leftover food for another meal or generously giving it to the homeless is a simple act one can do in their daily lives. In addition, they must share their knowledge with their loved ones and peers. They can also inform strangers, but may find that they can more effectively influence people they know. Essentially, the process of helping the problem starts with informing others of it. This first step can be as simple as saying to another, "Someone who is hungry could utilize those canned foods that have been in your pantry for over a year." Another tactic to share information with more credibility is by sharing statistics. One can share statistics verbally, or in writing. Talking with a few peers is good, but writing an article or creating posters, brochures, and flyers is more efficient. A poster with a statistic, such as "Every day, almost 16,000 children die from hunger-related causes--one child every five seconds," on it can possibly influence many (Black 2226-2234). The example statistic, or one expressing how much food is wasted, may shock passerbyers and allow them to see the bigger picture, by putting the numbers into timely matter. In the liklihood, strategically placing such posters in populated dining areas will get the attention that the domestic hunger problem needs.
Some university dining services support the cause of informing others as a start to relieving hunger. Northern Arizona University and Colorado State University are two such universities that are taking responsibility. Each university has been applying an innovative approach to help prevent waste: Trayless dining. With trayless dining, students are less liable to pile excess amounts of food on their plates. Some students believe that going trayless has been an inconvenience to them, because they generally have to make a few trips from the service counters to their table and back. In any case, the domestic hunger problem is a larger issue that pertains to society as a whole, rather than the microscophic problem of not being capable to get one's full meal in one trip. Regardless of what such students believe, universities that become trayless operations, and make endeavors each day to minimize their waste are taking the social responsibility that everyone should make the effort to do ("Social").
Again, for people to become waste cautious they need to be informed. In addition, people need to be motivated to eat what they put on their plate, and urge to take only what they actually can eat, because conserved food can be donated. Information will motivate the unmotivated to conserve. NAU became informed when they organized a project for Earth Day and were motivated to start being more waste cautious. Casey Fisher, a director in campus dining, believes that NAU implemented the concept after receiving the revealing results of Waste Audit 08, which was held at lunch on April 22, 2008, because they caused an awareness of edible food waste. During the audit, campus dining collected a total of 252. 2 pounds of waste, 224. 2 pounds of which was edible. Only 28 pounds of the total waste was not edible, consisiting of mostly paper waste and fruit peel waste. This venue serves lunch 224. 5 days in the academic year, which would make the appoximate amount of waste per year to be 56,618. 9 pounds. That number is merely for the lunchtime waste of one year, at one location alone. Visualize how many digits the number of multiple venues consists of. Americans can continue their normal daily lives without purchasing the millions of pounds of wasted food, and save money while conserving food. The money saved will be adaquate enough to stimulate the economy by spending it on life adventures, such as vacations, and donate to local shelters that need monetary support in preventing domestic hunger.
Donating is the solution to the problem of domestic hunger that individuals can strive to do. With generous donations, Americans can prevent hunger locally. The United States has food banks, food pantries, and free meal serving locations, but these places cannot run effectively without proper funds to sustain the programs. In 2007, one food bank operations director sadly admitted that they literally almost had no food to hand out, and "statistics showed that calls to the hunger hot-line [were] up by 37 percent [that] year" (Eisman 1). Their shelves were practically bare, which caused them to be insufficient of providing for unfortunate, hungry Americans. However, more donations given will allow more shelves to fill up with food to prevent the hunger of neighbors. In order for an impact to be visible on food shelters' shelves, the amount of generous donations needs to be amplified. Unfortunately, many people consider donating as a task that results in personal financial detriment, but this does not always have to be the case.
Americans can make donating a fun experience that is financially non-detrimental by collaborating with others in their generous endeavors. There are many options to make the process of donating exciting. A group of people can organize a benefit event to raise money for the hungry. Benefit events can consist of any idea one desires. One can arrange a benefit concert, fashion show, dance, sports tournament, walk, 5k run, or simply a social gathering. An example of a benefit event is the annaul Bike Against Hunger ride that donates all of their proceeds to the Oklahoma Food Bank ("2nd Annual"). At this organization's benefit bike ride, participants are asked to pay a five-dollar entrance fee. The organization advertises the event well, and motivates the community to support their cause with guaranteed fun and a prize for the winner of the race. Benefit events are great, because with the minimal participation fees they allow a chance to raise a lot of money without making each individual pay excessive amounts. The key to the effectiveness of a benefit is announcing the event to the community and generating motivation to participate in and help arrange the occasion.
Organizing a benefit event with merely a few friends can be a difficult and time consuming. Fortunately, there are businesses that are willing to help, because as a business, they obligated to take ethical and voluntary responsibility and it promotes their product. With help of businesses, one can arrange for people to consume their product on a certain day and be able to donate a percentage of the proceeds. Restruraunts work well in the situation. A benefit dinner, where people eat for the hungry, is ideal for motivating participants. Chili's and Applebee's are two companies that support this situation while fulfilling their obligations of responsibility. An individual simply has to meet with the manager of the restruraunt, explain what they want to raise money for, negotiate the date of the event, and create flyers for participants to bring with them when they attend. The participants must bring the flyer with them, and need to be encouraged to invite others to join them in dinning. For each dinning party, with a flyer, Chili's gives 10% and Applebee's gives 15% of its proceeds to the cause. In this case, the motivation is easy as well, because most people enjoy having a nice meal at a restruraunt with their family and friends. Another way that some companies and corporations help in donations is by making matching gift contracts. With these contracts, certain corporations promise to match another's donating gift. These are excellent and always double one's donation. When donating, one should consult their employer's human resource office to check if a matching gift contract is available ("Ways"). One can utilize benefit dinners and matching gift contracts at the same time for maximum potential. Most importantly, these resources eliminate the claim that it is too tough to organize a benefit event alone, because they are always there to help.
Many people also claim that they do not have extra money to donate. However, as noted before, Americans waste enormous amounts of edible food everyday. If Americans do not care about how much food they waste, they should care about the amount of money they spend on wasted food. Figure A shows that 89% of the food collected in Waste Audit '08 was edible, which means that more than half of the money spent on such food went to waste. Instead of purchasing excess amounts of food, the money can be donated to the important cause of preventing domestic hunger.
Unfortunately, most people in society believe that if they are not hungry, they should not care about people who are hungry. They believe that helping the hungry will not benefit them in any way. However, socialist philosophers believe that in helping the lowest of the low will benefit the country as a whole. The philosophy illustrates that helping to prevent hunger will allow hungry people to live longer, because they will not be dying due to malnutrition. This will give hungry people more opportunities in life, living for one, and having enough energy to rise from their current condition of not being able to afford food. Helping to prevent hunger may lower the poverty rate in the United States, which will make the country stronger. In addition, the hungry people who receive help have the possibilities break the cycle of poverty within their own family, which may continue to lower the poverty rate in the future. However, for this philosophy to work, food shelters must limit the extent of handouts to people. In the liklihood, limiting the number of handouts will motivate receiving people not to rely on donations, but to search for a job that will eventually get them out of their situation. Afterall, preventing hunger is meant to combat the symptoms of illness and weakness, which prevent people from growing with society.
Overall, Americans need to take responsibilty and help those less fortunate. People who have the knowledge of the domestic hunger problem must inform others and motivate them to conserve food and donate money to local food shelters. Loved ones, peers, and neighbors need to colaborate ideas that will make supporting the cause fun. The United States needs to work together to prevent the hunger problem, and make the country stonger in the end.
Reddig 1
