Gould 1
Trevor Gould
English 105
Kacie Beagan
27 April 2009
Bigfoot Exists, Get Over It
Our world has always been fascinated by stories of fantastic creatures which walk the narrow line between myth and reality. Tales of leviathan squids sinking massive ships on the open sea and the monster which lurks within the depths of the Loch Ness continue to enthrall people to this day. There is another famous creature which has resided in the annals of Nature's lore for centuries. It strolls through the vast forests of North America and is the subject of a heated scientific debate which has raged for centuries. It is the infamous Bigfoot, the massive ape whose existence continues to be disputed to this day. Even the mere hypothesis suggesting the creature's existence is scoffed at by the scientific community, yet Bigfoot, both spiritually and physically, will never fade away. Also known as Sasquatch, the creature is firmly cemented in popular culture and can be seen in commercials, movies, and of course the infamous hoaxes where humans dress in ape costumes and attempt to claim they've discovered the legendary Bigfoot. Despite its general dismissal as a mere myth or bed time story, the idea of Sasquatch will always endure and exist in one way or another.
The fable of Bigfoot began centuries ago with the Native Americans telling camp fire tales of a large, elusive ape lurking beneath the shadows of the oak trees in the dead of night. Gayle Highpine, a Kootenai Indian (whose tribe is based south of British Columbia), states "Indian people regard Bigfoot with great respect. He is seen as a special kind of being, because of his obvious close relationship with humans. Some elders regard him as standing on the "border" between animal-style consciousness and human-style consciousness, which gives him a special kind of power" (Highpine, 1). The general belief that Sasquatch is some form of a demi-god is common throughout the majority Native American tribes, yet the there is no official certainty amongst the tribes as to what form the creature exists in. The majority of the Northwestern Tribes, such as the Chinookan, Yakonan, and Salishan nations believe that Bigfoot is a physical reality and a real life creature (Flora, 2). Yet, many other tribes, including the Hopi, Sioux, and Iroquois view the creature as "a sort of supernatural or spirit being, whose appearance to humans is always meant to convey some kind of message" (Highpine, 1). To this day Sasquatch is still worshipped by the remaining Native Americans, who unanimously agree the creature is here, whether it is ethereally or physically. This legend began before settlers even landed upon the New World, and has only grown to the point where it represents one of the great unsolved mysteries of our time.
Despite there never being an official documented sighting of Bigfoot which has been legitimized by scientists, there is a general consensus as to the creature's anatomy and basic behavior. The creature known as Sasquatch is supposed to stand between seven and eight feet tall and weigh approximately between 700 and 1,000 pounds. It theoretically possesses excellent vision and sense of smell, one of the main reasons it avoids contact with humans so efficiently. Sasquatch's stride is enormous and far bigger than any normal human stride, allowing it to roam vast amounts of forest at a rather quick pace. It is also supposed to be nocturnal, yet another factor which makes it harder for researchers to come in contact with. Bigfoot is supposed to emit a rather foul stench, which is one of the common descriptors people utilize when describing an encounter with the creature (Monster Quest- Bigfoot, Phillips). Their strength is legendary; they have been known to throw small boulders to scare away potential intruders and lift the edges of cars and trailers into the air. To think Bigfoot is one of a kind is a mistake, due to the fact there have been several variations of such a creature found throughout the world. The Yeti and Yowie are prime examples of similar apes believed to exist in other parts of the globe.
Far from North America, upon the highest peaks of the Himalayan Mountain Range in Asia, lives the legend of the Abominable Snowman. The Tibetan name for the creature is the Yeti, and it is supposed to inhabit the mountains within India, Nepal, and Tibet (Discovery News, 1). It bears a close resemblance to the Sasquatch, only it has a heavy white coat of fur which keeps it warm in the frigid temperatures of the snow covered mountains. Like Bigfoot, the locals consider the Yeti to be a wise, ethereal being that watches over them from the mountain tops and protects them. The main evidence which suggests the Yeti's existence is large footprints which have been found in the snow throughout the Himalayan Mountain Range. The reason that they're considered far more credible then Bigfoot foot casts or prints is because the conditions found on those mountains are severe. Oxygen is scarce and the temperature is often below zero. A person can't just climb up the mountain on a whim to make some fake Yeti tracks; only a human who is properly trained, conditioned, and equipped can even hope to survive in the Himalayas. Therefore, footprints found in the snow are taken far more seriously and not often dismissed as hoaxes. As a matter of fact, while undergoing their historic climb of Mount Everest, Sir Edmund Hillary and his Sherpa Tenzing Norgway spotted giant footprints as they ascended the treacherous peak. The Yeti has a lot in common with the Sasquatch, and if it truly is walking the snowy peaks of the Himalayas, there is even a greater chance Bigfoot could be strolling through the forests of North America. There is one more legend which closely resembles that of the Bigfoot, and it is the infamous Yowie of Australia.
The idea of the Yowie was created by the native people of Australia, the Aborigines. The concept behind the Yowie is far less spiritual then that of Bigfoot, for it simply is supposed to be an ape like creature which will hunt and eat anyone who strays within its territory. The creature is both feared and respected by the natives, and they give areas where the Yowie is supposed to inhabit a wide berth. Unlike the often docile sightings of Bigfoot, people who have claimed to encounter Yowies have described running for their lives from an enraged and growling ape which sought to catch and eat them. Also called the "hairy man," the creature supposedly inhabits mountain ranges and rock formations all over Australia. Key evidence of its existence, aside from sightings, are large footprints found throughout Australia's environments. The Yowie is yet another example of a fabled ape whose potential reality grants Bigfoot's reality even more credibility.
Bigfoot isn't the only animal once believed to be a hoax. There have been numerous creatures which were originally considered to be fables or myth upon their discovery (Lovgren, 2). Some of the most well known animals include the "Platypus (1700s), Colossal Squid (1925), Mountain Gorilla (1902), and Komodo dragon (1912)," all of which "were once reported as hoaxes, delusions, or misidentifications"( Beets, 1). Upon being discovered in the 1700's, explorers initially were convinced the platypus had to be a hoax due to the fact it possessed a mammal's body with a duck's webbed feet and beak. Scientists were certain someone had sewn a duck's bill onto some type of beaver like creature in an attempt to seemingly create a new animal. It wasn't until more specimens were observed in the wild (and checked for stitching around the beak area) that scientists accepted the platypus as a legitimate species.
The colossal squid had long been the subject of sailor's tales in which the squid dragged boats full of men down into the crushing depths below. It was widely regarded as pure myth and considered to belong solely in stories such as 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Yet, in 1925, upon the dissection of a sperm whale, which is one of the few predators which hunt squid far beneath the ocean surface, scientists found something interesting within the confines of its stomach. They found two gigantic squid tentacles, far bigger than those of a giant squid. Ever since then reports of dead colossal squid specimens have poured in, with the first live specimen being caught a mere two years ago by fishermen off the coast of New Zealand.
Gorillas have always been well known animals, but one of their subspecies, the Mountain Gorilla, was accidently discovered in 1902 by German explorer Captain Robert Von Beringe. He and his party were attempting to climb the volcanic mountain Mount Sabyinyo when they encountered a new species of gorilla which were aggressively climbing the peak towards them. There had been no record of any type of gorilla inhabiting that area of East Africa before then. Von Beringe had discovered a new subspecies of gorilla which no one even thought existed.
Before 1912, it was widely accepted by the scientific world that giant lizards hadn't existed past the Dinosaur Age. Yet, pearl fishermen began coming back from a small, unknown chain of islands called the Lesser Sundas with stories of large, prehistoric lizards roaming free around one particular island. The island went by the name Komodo, and soon expeditions of men were arriving there eager to see if the pearl fishermen spoke the truth. They found lizards ten feet in length which could kill a water buffalo several times bigger than itself by using poisonous saliva which they secrete from their mouth (Giant Lizards, 1). Ever since then, the Komodo Dragon one of the most famous and feared animals on the planet.
If all four of these animals were once thought to be hoaxes, then Bigfoot still has a great chance of actually existing. The colossal squid is a huge specimen which varies in length from 30 to 50 feet, and yet it went unseen for centuries. If a nearly sixteen yard behemoth of the sea could exist without being glimpsed by humans, then surely an eight foot ape could do the same. Bigfoot simply has yet to be proven to exist, and it is foolish to write the creature off as nonexistent simply because history tends to repeat itself. In the case of the colossal squid, mountain gorilla, komodo dragon, and platypus, all went from mere imagination to legitimate physical beings accepted by the world of academia. To put another perspective on why Bigfoot exists, one most look upon the platypus. Why? Simply because it is one of the most scientifically bizarre animals existing on this planet, and it is far more peculiar than Bigfoot could ever hope to be.
The reasons the platypus was originally thought of as a hoax have already been discussed, yet there is much more than its simple appearance which makes it such an odd specimen. Despite being a mammal, it possesses many traits typically only found in members of the reptile family. While most mammals give live birth to their young, platypus lay eggs and build nests to house them in while they incubate. Once the eggs hatch, the babies suckle milk from the mother's belly like all mammals do. The hybrid mix of mammal and reptile is the main feature which makes the platypus such a bizarre and scientifically incorrect animal. To top it off, it utilizes an electro-receptor system within its beak to locate prey when swimming in the water. If a creature which breaks all the barriers between what is considered a mammal and a reptile exists, then surely the existence of a larger specimen of ape isn't that farfetched. If the platypus, in all its bizarre glory, lives in this world then the idea of a much simpler species of ape seems very plausible. If the platypus exists, there is no reason why Bigfoot shouldn't as well.
Regardless of whether or not Bigfoot exists physically, he will always hold a special place in today's popular culture. Everyone has their own opinion, whether it is serious or humorous, regarding if Bigfoot is real or not. The creature can be found in all forms of media including television, radio, and movies. Sasquatch is currently the subject of Jack Link's hilarious beef jerky commercials, Messing with Sasquatch, where hikers play dumb pranks on him, only to have his angry wrath released upon them in the forms of being thrown, punched, kicked, and hurt in every way possible. Sasquatch has also been included in many movies, including The Goofy Movie, Rudolph the Rednose Reindeer, Abominable Snowman, and Strange Wilderness, to name a few. In the recent 2006 cult classic Tenacious D and the Pick of Destiny, the main characters Jack and Kyle trip on shrooms and in the process imagine themselves in a magical forest where they meet who else but Bigfoot! The idea and appeal of Bigfoot, whether it is for humor or serious scientific research, captivates our society and will never release its hold on us. People will never cease to believe Sasquatch exists, it is impossible because the creature's fame is known across America and will continue to be known for generations to come. It is also simply human nature to think there is something out there, and this creature fulfills America's longing for mystery and gives them another reason to jump when camping in the middle of the woods at night.
The great philosopher Socrates once stated "the knowledge of our own ignorance is the first step toward true knowledge" (Beets, 1). As humans, we are creatures who adhere to laws, rules, and rationales advocated to us by society. We are comfortable thinking in the way our society does, straying from that path causes us to quickly doubt and dismiss other notions. The last thing we would ever do is even consider that our structured views of the world can possibly be wrong. Yet, look at what history reveals about man's past errors in common logic and idealisms. It was only a couple centuries ago when the worldwide consensus was that the Earth was flat. We used to think the fastest speed achievable was a mere forty miles per hour. There was a time where the very idea of flying in the air with birds seemed ludicrous; one would be laughed at for suggesting such a thing. All of these pre-conceived notions about the world were the general mindset by society until they were inevitably smashed to pieces by advancements in science, technology, and the Wright brother's ingenious wing design. Currently, Bigfoot doesn't officially exist according to scientists and wildlife experts. That is the mold many of us happily adhere to, yet there are some who break free of the binds of society and advocate his existence. Some people are willing to risk ridicule and doubt by society as they fund websites, fan sites, and research groups dedicated to finding and proving Bigfoot's existence. It is the people who dare to think outside the box who give light to new theories and open the doors to new discoveries. In the 14th Century, claiming that the world wasn't flat could potentially get a man throw in an insane asylum. Nowadays we cannot believe that was once the common belief of humanity. Currently, many people scoff at the Bigfoot legend, yet one hundred years from now, people will be in disbelief that Sasquatch was once considered to be a mere hoax.
The very concept of Bigfoot will never fade away from the world's imagination. The creature will always walk the forests in the minds of millions, elusive and mysterious as always. It is closely related to two similar apes found in different areas of the globe, whose potential existences only strengthen the possibility of Bigfoot's reality. It is not the first animal to be deemed a hoax, and history shows those creatures eventually are reexamined and researched in a new light which inevitably proves their existence. There is something out there, walking unseen beneath the trees. It will always be there, whether it is spiritually, physically, or both. No matter what the critics and dissenters say, Bigfoot is here to stay forever. Long live Bigfoot!
Prospectus
This extended argument paper is advocating how the legendary Bigfoot does truly exist in our world today. Despite being dismissed as a hoax by the majority of the scientific community, there is legitimate evidence out there which supports Sasquatch's potential to exist. Taking a look at past species once thought to be merely fantasy shines a new light upon the entire Bigfoot conflict, for no one has officially been able to prove the creature doesn't exist. Also, mankind has been conditioned to believe a certain set of views, one of which is that Bigfoot is a mere myth. People used to believe the world was flat, and look at what we all know now, which is that the Earth is a sphere. Ideologies change with new discoveries, and our view on Bigfoot might be drastically different one hundred years from now. Bigfoot will always exist, whether it be physically or spiritually, and he will never fade away.
Annotated Bibliography
Beets, Bryan. "World's Top Experts Conclude Sasquatch Exists." The New Jersey Bigfoot Reporting Center. August 24, 2004 2004. <http://strange.myeyez.net/bigfootnj/sasquatch-exists.php>.
This article's main argument is that despite discovering millions of species in our world, there still may be many more undiscovered animals all around the globe. Bigfoot might be one of them, along with its relative the Yeti. It also relies on the quotes of many famous figures such as Socrates and Neiss. It then talks about Bigfoot sightings in great detail, then draws the conclusion that there is one Sasquatch per 160,000 people. It goes over fossil evidence as proof that some type of ape like creature roaming the forests. Then it alludes to the Native American's stories and drawings of large apes to prove that Bigfoot is out there somewhere. As a whole, the article provides evidence to suggest that Sasquatch is more than a myth, but actually a scientific possibility.
Sasquatch: Legend Meets Science. Dir. Haijeck, Doug. Prod. Haijeck Doug. DVD. Whitewolf Entertainment Inc., 2003.
This source goes into depth on the matter of Bigfoot's existence in this world. It involves a group of experiences scientists analyzing the most compelling evidence found within the legend of Sasquatch. They examine various types of footage, and the plaster casts of footprints which could potentially belong to Bigfoot. Using advanced technology they zoom in for a closer look at the Patterson film, and cross reference the ape's anatomy with that of human and/or other apes. They try to figure out if the creature is actually a man in a suit or an actual creation from Nature.
Lovgren, Stefan. "Forensic Experts Say Bigfoot is Real." National Geographic. October 23, 2003 2003. <http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2003/10/1023_031023_bigfoot.html>.
This source attempts to provide convincing evidence that Bigfoot exists scientifically as well as spiritually. Several scientists, risking the ridicule from the rest of their peers, conducted a forensics scan on bones, hair, feces, etc. They came to the conclusion that none of the fossils matched any current living apes, although they did highly resemble them. Forensics is now a highly credible field of research so the scientists hope their discoveries will be taken seriously and potentially help mankind truly determine if Bigfoot exists or not.
Monster Quest: Bigfoot. Dir. Phillips, Tom. Prod. Bosch Dale. Perf. Bernard, Stan. DVD. History Channel, 2009.
This is a five part DVD in which researchers examine various aspects of the Patterson film along with other Bigfoot footage to see whether Sasquatch actually stands a chance of existing. They record human movements and stride speed and gap in order to find out whether the ape in the film is real or merely a hoax. The video also talks about the Bigfoot myth, and reveals habitats where the creature is supposedly living. Sightings are described as well, and many people are interviewed about whether or not they believe Bigfoot exists or not. The video comes to the conclusion that Bigfoot's existence is still immensely possible.
Sheppard-Wolford, Sali. Valley of the Skookum. Pine Winds Pr, 2006.
This is a story which takes place over a span of four years. It is about a women and her multiple encounters with a large group of Bigfoot. While being a work of fiction, it reveals Sasquatch's prominence in today's society. The descriptions of the creatures and their earth shaking steps and howls paints a vivid portrait of the mighty Bigfoot in the reader's mind. Aside from being a good read, it is full to the brim with Bigfoot lore and myth. This book is entertaining and delves into the legend of Bigfoot like none other ever has before.
History's Mysteries: Bigfoot and Other Monsters. Dir. Unk. DVD. A&E Home Video, 2008.
This video explores the legend of Bigfoot thoroughly and accurately along with the myths of other mysterious creatures. It discusses facts and sightings, anything that could possibly lead to proving these creatures exist. It is thoughtful and insightful, and not to mention very scientific and thorough. It examines the Patterson footage and other forms of Bigfoot media to probe for clues as to whether all the sightings are mere hoaxes or held some actual relevance to Nature. The video suggests Bigfoot exists but holds no official stance on the issue.
Unknown. "Evidence." Texas Bigfoot Researcher Conservancy. January 22, 2009 2009. <http://www.texasbigfoot.org/index.php/about-bigfoot/evidence>.
This article is simply a long scientific rant about how Bigfoot must exist and that he is simply very elusive and shy of the public eye. It talks about the areas where many sasquatch have been sighted, and draws conclusions of what a typical Bigfoot habitat must possess in order to sustain a bigfoot. It reviews hair and bone samples, analyzing them and reporting they don't match any current ape existing in our world. They too review the Patterson film and search it for clues that might lead to discovering Sasquatch. They are very sure that Sasquatch exists in our world today.
---. "Team Claims to Find Abominable Snowman Prints." Discovery News. October 20, 2008 2008. <http://dsc.discovery.com/news/2008/10/20/yeti-footprints-nepal.html>.
This article talks about the reports of finding Yeti footprints deep within the Himalayans. They are immensely large and currently don't match the description of the footprints of any other animals that inhabit the mountains. This is important because if a Yeti can exist in Asia, there is a good chance a Bigfoot can exist in North America. The team of scientists is certain it is the footprint of a Yeti, due to its large size and huge stride length. Nothing is official yet though, but they hope this footprint is the breakthrough which reveals that a giant ape does walk somewhere in this world.
Flora , Stephanie. "Northwest Indian Tribes." Oregon Pioneers. <http://www.oregonpioneers.com/tribe.htm>.
This article talks about all the Northwestern Indian Tribes and explains their cultures, locations, and beliefs. It gives a brief overview of each tribe, comparing and contrasting them to other tribes nearby them. It takes the large Indian nations and breaks them down into sub categories including by tribe, location, and overall population. It is very informative and well help me a great deal with my research.
"Giant Lizards." The Museum of un Natual Mystery. <http://www.unmuseum.org/bigliz.htm>.
This article informs the reader about the initial tales and discovery of the famed Komodo Dragons. First it describes sailor's tales of huge lizards living prosperously upon a chain of islands. It is these tales which spur expeditions to go out and search the nearby islands. Once there they find lizards ten feet in length that can kill prey much bigger then themselves with poison venom. It goes on to give a summary of Komodo dragon's traits, anatomy, habitat, and social interactions.
