The Controversy over Animal Cloning
Rachel Blazich
English 105
Ms. Clark-Sanchez
May 1, 2009
The Controversy over Animal Cloning
According to an article in Science Magazine about animal cloning it claims that "only two percent of all implanted embryos in animals make it to term and actually result in a clone" (Pennisi &Vogel, 2000). Some people may view cloning as being a way to help species of animals that are endangered or that it will preserve the life of a beloved pet. However, the facts of cloning maybe startling to many. Furthermore, the cloning of animals just so a person can say they have successfully cloned a species is morally and ethically wrong. Many people find cloning to be unethical and morally wrong this is because the cloning of animals often results in birth defects and even deaths in the specimen that is to be cloned, cloning takes away from the uniqueness and individuality between the clone and the original pet, there are so many animals in shelters to be adopted why would you want another means of producing more, and the immense amount money that is being spent on cloning could be put towards a use such as helping the animals that are already living. There are so many different aspects to cloning. It is important that we as the general public stand up for the rights of animals and fight against what many view as being cruelty to animals through cloning.
According to The American Heritage Dictionary, cloning is a process of reproduction used to copy a cell or an individual (producing a clone) from their DNA. The process of cloning has three steps involved in order to clone a mammal. "The first step is called nuclear transfer which is the process of replacing the cell's nucleus with DNA from the animal to be cloned. The second step is cell division which is the process where the scientists incubate the clump of dividing cells until it becomes a blastocyst, or in other words a precursor to an embryo. The third step is the embryo transfer which is the transferring of embryos to the uterus of a surrogate mother"(Tsunoda & Kato, 2002).
In figure one you can see the way to clone a mammal, broken down in steps. The figure shows all three steps that it takes to clone an animal. They start with the original animal where they take developed differentiated cells, they also have an unfertilized egg cell and remove its nucleus. They then fuse the egg cell and cell to be cloned together, they then begin to develop as an embryo. The final step is to implant the embryo into the female, and hope that a clone will be born with no birth defects. Figure two shows the percentages of how exactly how many specimens survive each step of cloning for a total of six different mammals. The steps that are shown on the chart are nuclear transfer, cell division, and embryo transfer. The chart also shows the over all efficiency of the cloning of the animals, which is extremely low. As you can see the overall efficiency is higher in sheep with a total of two percent of the sheep being cloned actually survive, and cats have the lowest percentage in the overall success rate of cloning, with a one half percent of the cats surviving.
Figure #1
Figure #2
Cloning of animals is ethically and morally wrong because it often results in defects and even deaths in the specimen that is being cloned. There are many examples that support this claim. For example "First and foremost is the problem of efficiency, which remains at a less-than-impressive 2%; out of some 100 attempts to clone an animal, typically just two or three live offspring result" (Pennisi & Vogel, 2000). This seems to be a lot of innocent animals dying, and not always for noble reasons. In the article "Clones: A hard act to Follow" in the journal Animal Cloning, the authors present the fact that even when an embryo is successfully implanted into the womb, pregnancies often end in miscarriage as well as a significant fraction of the animals that are born die shortly after their birth, and some of those that survive have serious developmental abnormalities (Pennisi & Vogel, 2000). This in my opinion suggesting that something in the recipe is fundamentally wrong and is causing pain for many of those innocent animals. One specific example can be seen in Japan. Since July of 1998 over two hundred calves have been produced through nuclear transfer of somatic cell nuclei, however over half of those calves were stillborn or died within several months of giving birth (Tsunoda & Kato, 2002). Many scientists that studied the calves say that miscarriages were observed at various stages of pregnancy after the cloned embryos were transferred from the somatic cells to the recipients. As you can see there I way to much suffering that animals are put through for scientist to be successful in cloning.
The second reason why cloning is unethical is because it takes away from the uniqueness and individuality animals, and the animals are not guaranteed to look the same, so the owners may end up not wanting the clone. According to USA Today's article "1 year later: Cat, clone differ," a cat named Rainbow is a typical calico with splotches of brown, tan and gold on white, while Cc, her clone, has a striped gray coat over white. Also in the same article experts say that people who hope that cloning will resurrect their pet will be disappointed because they will not get what they are looking for. "Sure, you can clone your favorite cat. But the copy will not necessarily act or even look like the original" (1 Year Later: Cat, Clone Differ,2003). In another article printed in the New York Times, called "Beloved Pet Everlasting," the author talks to Lou Hawthorne, an expert to the field of cloning. Hawthorne claims that once the initial wow factor of the clone has passed the owners realize that the animal is not the same as the original. "Animal lovers bond with pets because of their personalities and behaviors, not the genetic materials that defines the immune system or blood type. The new cloned dog will not know the old trick, you will have to teach them" (1 Year Later: Cat, Clone Differ,2003). Many people fail to look at cloning from this angle. Cloning does not guarentee you the same animal that you fell in love with and cared about so much. Traits such as personality and behaviors are influenced by the environment that animals are introduced to.
Another reason that cloning is wrong is because there are so many animals that are in shelters that still need a home. "There are millions of cats in shelters and with rescue groups that need homes, and the last thing that we need is a new production strategy for cats" (1 Year Later: Cat, Clone Differ,2003). The American Humane Society euthanizes hundreds of animals each month because nobody adopts them, and the shelters cannot afford to feed and take care of the animals.
The final reason that cloning is wrong is because the immense amount money that is being spent on cloning could be put towards a better use. "Mr. Hawthorne held a series of online auctions, offering his services to four high bidders who agreed to pay from $130,000 to $170, 000 for clones of their dogs" (Konigsberg, 2009). Now that is a lot of money for one animal, in my opinion if we took that money and gave it to animals shelters all over the world, to use for the care of their animals, I believe that less animals would have to die for no reason. In an article called The World's First Cloned Pet the author states that a cat lover in Texas has become the world's first owner of a cloned-to-order feline, paying $50,000 for a genetic duplicate of her dead pet. The author also stated that the Humane Society of the United States estimates between three and four million unwanted pets are put down every year in the US; the $50,000 cloning fee for one animal would pay to neuter more than 1,400 cats (The World's First Cloned Pet, 2004). Now if you look at how many animals could be help to the one that would be cloned you can see that using the money would be better spent on more than one animal. I believe that the money spent on pet cloning would be better spent on spaying, neutering, and vaccinating the millions of homeless animals that enter shelters each year. And adopting from a shelter rather than cloning your pet will help save one of the millions of animals that are euthanized in shelters every year. "The money and energy now being spent on the development of pet cloning, like the $3. 7 million Missyplicity Project is a terrible waste of financial and intellectual resources that could much better serve animal welfare interests if redirected to better causes" (Fiester, 2005). There is much evidence that suggests that the money that is being spent on cloning now would be better spent on things such as helping animal in shelters.
