Anisha Hooker
J. Belknap
English 105
20 April 2009
Useful or Useless: NASA's Space Program
Imagine that you are enjoying a sweltering hot summer getaway in Florida located near the Kennedy Space Center and Cape Canaveral. You decide to head over to the launch pad to watch the shuttle Atlantis blast off into the dark abyss of space. As you watch six specially trained individuals travel into orbit, you begin to wonder, "Why is this important? Why I am I standing here watching a billion dollar spacecraft drift off into space just so its passengers can float around, repair an oversized telescope, and question the unknown?"
A shuttle launch may captivate the world for a moment, but it cannot seem to silence the questions of why the National Aeronautics Space Administration, (NASA) for short, space program is an important contribution to global society. Most opponents observe the federal division as something to be dismantled because of its recently enlarged federal budget in a time world desperation, poverty, and economic crisis along with the several daring moments that places employees in life or death scenarios. However, NASA is something to be marveled at because of its groundbreaking technological efforts, such as the Mars Rover, space shuttle orbiter. Another innovative creation is the famous Hubble Telescope, a large piece of satellite-like, telescope equipment that has been snapping photos of the planets, stars, and other prominent objects in space. The association also makes great contributions to helping the environmental and health issues of the world. The NASA space program is a needed American institution that is useful not only because it excels in answering some curiosities with a top notch space exploration division and involves itself in trying to improve society with scientific research.
According to the White House Office of Management and Budget, President Obama's budget for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) will be an estimated $18. 7 billion for 2010 (www.whitehouse.gov). This enormous sum given to this program will help with space exploration that includes humans and robots, a 'chapter' that will focus on traveling to Earth's single moon, probing the 'mysteries of the universe', and the constant development of specialized equipment in the next year (www.whitehouse.gov). It will also provide support for the completion of the International Space Station (ISS), which serves as an orbiting lab facility that includes in space engineering, and several repairs for the Hubble Telescope.
Even though this $18. 7 amount is for a layout that can possibly improve life on Earth, there are critics who claim otherwise. There are somewhat anti-space program advocates who say that NASA's intentions are not important problems that need the money, like global warming and deadly disease, are more deserving of the almost $19 billion cost. However, the NASA space program uses the large amounts of money so that other expanse issues, like the depletion of the ozone layer and medical problems, can be helped by the use of satellites and ISS experimentation. Another success that opponents fail to see are the records that show NASA as one of the government-owned divisions that use their money properly, rather than in a corrupt manner.
Another issue which opponents to the NASA's space program criticize is its past
mistakes that involved a lack of ethics and resulted in death. In the past, the shuttle program has lost two of its carriers, the Columbia and the Challenger, which both ended as massive infernos of burning metal. One of the Challenger shuttle's solid rocket booster, or one of the white, skinny fuel tanks, had a frozen enlarged washer, or O-ring, due to the cold January weather, which was never defrosted nor completely inspected (Hall 241). When the carrier took off in 1986, the piece of material, as insignificant as it seemed, proved to be disastrous when it contributed as a malfunction and helped the shuttle explode, killing seven unsuspecting astronauts instantly.
The Columbia, another situation where cold weather damaged the carrier and inspectors and engineers alike failed miserably to check all the components. It re-entered Earth's mesosphere, the layer of atmosphere that burns up meteors, as a ball of fire before crashing to the ground, killing everyone on board. There have been other real-life scenarios that have included the dangers of space travels, like the infamous Apollo 13 mission, or MIR (Russian for peace or world), a Russian space station that held three stranded cosmonauts, and the deaths of other astronauts during the earlier NASA years.
Because of these incidents, there are critics who claim that the space program is way too dangerous to put more individuals in orbit. However, the dedicated astronauts who embark on these missions wouldn't give up working in space (www.jsc.nasa.gov.) After all, this isn't only their job, but also their dream come true. On Earth, they spend plenty of time being spoke-persons for the program and work with middle-school aged youth groups inspired by space technology by teaching at NASA education and space camp facilities. They are the ones who are willing to make the sacrifices in the name of 'space science'. The men and women who have died on board the shuttles Columbia and Challenger weren't lied to or completely unaware that there was a chance of fatality if something went wrong at any part of the mission. They simply were all willing to work with NASA to help improve the world.
One way that NASA helps improving the world is through the concept of actually discovering the unknown and possibilities of beyond Earth. Space exploration will not only open doors for traveling and possibly inhabiting the Moon for a permanent research facility but also help answer questions about the red planet of Mars.
NASA first built the Apollo program, which lasted from 1961-1975, for space travel to the Moon, after President John Kennedy announced the beginning of the great space race against Russia (Kay 54). In 1961, Neil Armstrong, accompanied with Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins, became the first man to be on the Moon during the Apollo 11 mission. Even though the Moon operations are considered part of man's greatest achievements, there are several worldwide who don't believe humans have ever been to the moon, which has left a spark of controversy that NASA can't seem to extinguish.
In January of 2004, President George W. Bush announced that NASA would be forming a new program dedicated to taking astronauts to back Earth's Moon. Ever since then, many people have speculated rather it's worth the time and money spent on the project. Some have begun to argue that's pointless because they believe no human has been to the Moon, while others wonder if it's just another world for man to pointlessly conquer.
Whether man's going back or has never been to a realm that seems almost like another environmental playground for humanity to wreck, traveling to the Moon cannot hurt. If this division of the space program is successful, the Moon could serve as a home base for outer space study, and a holding cell for human data collection outside of Earth (Shapiro). As a permanent support station for science, researchers could have a bit more access to Solar System planets as well as several other features of the Universe.
The Moon has no atmosphere that requires a spacecraft to leave behind launching equipment or technology that fights layers of air capable of burning up items re-entering the surface of a planet, unlike the Earth. Plans for a space station on the Moon also include a data storage facility with the ability to preserve cultural information of Earth. Some supporters believe that this is could be a final resort for saving humanity's achievements in science and art, in the event of disaster and destruction on this planet.
Another area of useful exploration that has the attention of this space program is the red planet of Mars. This fourth planet of the Solar System has several unanswered questions that involve life science. In the earlier years of Mars exploration, rovers, or spacecrafts that can travel through space and on land, have been launched in route to the planet. These machines have discovered signs on previous water sources on the surface. What's even more extraordinary is that Earth-based space observatories have noted that there are two polar ice caps on the north and south poles of the planet.
If Mars possibly once had flowing water, what type of mixture was it? Could it sustain water again and maybe even living organisms? Could the planet be developed as an area for plant production or fresh water? If so, could this knowledge help this world with the huge water and hunger crisis? With the help of the NASA space program, these questions could be answered through the exploration of this mysterious planet.
The exploration of both Mars and the Moon are needed aspects of society which are connected to another important division of the space program, scientific research. The administration is very implemental in using technology for data and applied science in helping the world with discovery and improvement. One way this accomplished is by the use of satellite technology.
Satellite technology, something highly valued by NASA, has become instrumental providing information for the world's ozone layer issue, location devices, and meteorology. It's also responsible for spectacular imaging of objects in space and shots of Earth. With the Aura satellite constructed by NASA aeronautical engineers (www.science daily.com) that orbit the Earth, scientists are able to track the damaged ozone layer, which allows deadly UV radiation rays from the sun to enter in the planet's atmosphere with the threat of cancer and biological damage. The Aura satellite also helps aerospace researchers keep note of air pollution and smog levels that create more respiratory medical issues in smothered cities, like Los Angeles, California, and Beijing, China.
Another use for this particular type of satellite is for meteorology, or weather science, and precipitation prediction. NASA technology has the point-of-view and ability to track and photograph oncoming hurricane and other tropical storms systems. This is the same information from which the Weather Channel and the worldwide news media outlets are assisted in creating storm tracking, or the models seen on television, and the usual warning systems for the affected areas. Precipitation recording, or the tracking of rain, sleet, or snow levels, is provided as well by the space program, which uses GPS to locate and create weather prediction models (Dietrich).
NASA satellites are in the mainstream of using the global position system, or GPS, in order to map out locations and places. This program is in worldwide use with the assistance of locating devices, like cell phone and computer databases, and also helps track natural events and disasters, like deforestation and wildfires. If the space program were to be dismantled, how would the planet have any clue about the weather, cancer-causing UV levels, or certain locations being plagued by air pollution? Opponents might reconsider how they feel about NASA if they would just take a moment to research the satellites responsible for helpful everyday meteorological data, ozone layer reports, and the GPS program.
The Hubble Space Telescope, or HST, is another piece of satellite equipment that has served as a window to the farthest corners of the Milky Way galaxy for the last nineteen years. As this orbiting apparatus hovers 370 miles above the Earth, it takes thousands of photographs that display beautiful and distant clusters, nebulas, and planetary bodies that help answer questions about dying stars and old galaxies that merge and collide with each other to form a new one (hubble.nasa.gov). It also uncovers the secret outer rims of the Solar system and hidden dangers, like black holes, which are capable of pulling any object, including a planet like Earth, into an unknown destination with no trouble at all. Hubble is schedule to be repaired by the six person crew of the space shuttle, Atlantis, later this spring.
Critics question why it's necessary to use this telescopic technology and the hefty sum allotted to fund this mission without looking at the facts. Even worse, most of them haven't even dared to use their imagination nor ask questions about the worse. Has the Milky Way possibly merged with another galaxy? Would it really make sense to dissolve the Hubble Telescope program at the risk of having no idea where the next black holes will appear? With the Hubble, regardless of its reasoning or repairment price tag, NASA can analyze secrets of the universe and clear up space's greatest mysteries with actually photography.
In using satellites and exploration, the NASA space program must be on their A game, or highest level, when it comes to experimenting. In-space research is an indispensable resource that works with and improves life on Earth. This type of research is the actual glue that holds everything mentioned earlier and the entire NASA division together. One way that space research helps with life on this planet is through material science. The engineering of new technology at the NASA designing facilities may seem exclusive to spacecrafts but this is not the case.
The material of the curved white walls of the everyday civilian airplane, both commercial carriers and private jet liners, were actually created by NASA. While the program was searching for something capable of protecting astronauts on board the spacecrafts, scientists discovered a material too delicate to weigh down practically any weightless carrier but also strong enough to survive the extremes of space and withstand a bullet. That same technology is now responsible for creation and use of lifesaving bulletproof glass, vests, and inside walls of many aircrafts. Material science and NASA have created an unbreakable bond that apply all sorts of discoveries used on Earth everyday and would cause painful problems for society if the two were separated or if the space program were stripped from existence.
Another way that in space research helps life on this planet is through life science, or biology. There are several well known questions that plague the minds of scientists and normal everyday citizens alike. Could zero gravity and NASA technology make a difference in finding cures for cancer and AIDS? Are we alone? Research 'up there' in space allows for a perfect location to discover the answers to these mysteries. Opponents argue that because the use of 'space biology' and the ideas of other possible life form this particular division of the space program, NASA lacks reasoning. However, they don't consider that without aeronautics, there wouldn't be any way to scientifically examine the situations and comeback with real facts.
With the completion of the International Space Station, or ISS, on the way, the 'new era' for space life sciences will come into great existence (Free Executive Summary). This orbiting laboratory is already responsible for many Earth invention spin-offs that include improvements for sports, water purification, vision, and best of all, medicine, which makes it the ideal place for experimenting with biology (www.nasa.gov). This type of research could yield a cure for every type of cancer and the HIV/AIDS virus if the space program is given the opportunity to continually use the effects of zero or low gravity, low because the ISS has a gravity regulator that limits weightlessness in space, to manipulate cells and organisms (Free Executive Summary), into medical materials.
Another part of biology that is constantly bombarded by scientists and civilians alike is the possible existence of other life forms, which include extraterrestrial beings. There are many people who claim they've seen clear cut evidence that aliens exist, while others argue that it's just not possible. Either way, there's no better place to find out than away from the 'blue planet' and in outer space. Mars might have had water at one point, but why and for what? But, then again, if someone's out there, they know we're here by all of the spacecrafts, so what's the big deal with no real contact? These are questions that need more than the U.S. government and crop circle farmers to answer, which leaves us to the space program.
NASA has been around since 1958, and continues to yield several important uses and findings for Earth. Regardless of its past mistakes, budgets, or potential reasoning, this U.S space program is very useful not only because it leads the world in discoveries with the use of exploration, but also finds itself accountable in society by using science to improve the quality of life. Opponents continually will fight against NASA, but in reality, all they have really to do is check the facts and simply look around.
