Alexis Goettl
J. Belknap
Extended Argument
April 21, 2009
Human Trafficking: The Abolition of the 21st Century
It was a mid-summer night, so humid she could feel her clothes sticking to her body with each breathe she took. So humid she did not feel the tears running down her face. She was tired of being treated this way, tired of being stuck in captivity, tired of sleeping with five or six guys a night. With endless thoughts streaming through her mind, she packed what little she owned, an extra shirt and a picture of her favorite actress from a magazine. She fled. Hoping, praying, and wishing more than anything in the world she wouldn't get caught. She had heard of a place called Rapha House, where they would help her get better, and that was exactly where she was headed.
She doesn't ever remember being happy, maybe this was her time. She did not like to reflect upon it, but as she moved through the thick shrubs she could not help but think about how she ended up here. She remembered her dad molesting and raping her at three years old, saying that he was "preparing her". He did this three times a week until she was four. And at four years old he sold her. She was no more important to him than a dog, something to be bred and trained and sold. As the thoughts crept into her head, she went from walking to jogging, jogging to running, until there was no holding back, she was running as fast as her six year old legs could take her. As she ran through the bush she broke to a clearing. And there was the house. Freedom.
Annually, there are 27 million people trafficked globally and about 600,000 to 800,000 victims trafficked across borders. About 80% of sex trafficked victims are female and half of the females are under the age of 18 (Silverman, et al., 2007; Logan, 2009). Sex trafficking is considered "the recruitment, transportation,. harboring of persons, by means of threat or use of force,.for the purpose of exploitation. of prostitution of other or other forms of sexual exploitation" (Freisendorf, 2007). Sex slavery has always existed but the industry has rapidly grown since the 1990s (Freisendorf, 2007). And with an enormous amount of victims, sex trafficking is not simply confined to one single country or area of the world.
"The largest number of sex trafficking victims originates in Asia, with an estimated 150,000 annually from South Asia alone" (Silverman, et al., 2007). In Asia, sex slavery has become a source of economic security with an income of millions of dollars a year. Globally, sex trafficking brings over $32 Billion every year. Cambodia, also known as "Pedophile's Paradise", has an estimated 20,000 sex workers in Phnom Penh (a major city) with an average age of 15 years old (Mc Clelland, 2003). In Congo, sex slavery conditions are some of the worst in the world, where women are not only being forced to have sex, but being forced into incest and cannibalism (Anonymous, Congo, 2008). In Mumbai, India there are an estimated 90,000 sex slave workers (Chatterjee, 2008; Re, 2002; Silverman, et al., 2007). Sex trafficking can even be found in the US. Some of the most popular cases were found in California and New York when Thai girls were discovered being sold for sex (Re, 2002).
Although there is no pattern to where sex slavery happens, case studies have shown that there is a correlation to what type of people are most vulnerable. One in six girls are under the age of 15 when they are forced into sex slavery. Over half of all victims are "lured by traffickers based on promises of economic opportunities" such as a waitressing job or a job at a factory (Silverman, et al., 2007). This type of method happens mostly when the parents cannot afford to keep all of their children and are forced to send them to work in hopes of receiving money. Traffickers mainly kidnap or drug the victims; however, in some cases victims report being trafficked by a family member and almost 8% report being trafficked by their husband or fiance (Silverman, et al., 2007).
As sex slavery has progressed, efforts to stop slavery have risen. But the majority of the efforts have been done separately. Governments around the world have been making laws in efforts to stop sex trafficking. In addition, nongovernment agencies have been working to help the women, girls, and families involved in sex trafficking. However, in order to be effective both government agencies and nongovernment agencies need to work together.
Places around the world, such as Europe, have seen a reasonably high growth rate in sex trafficking, and have learned to look at sex slavery as an "organized-crime" that must be dealt with (Freisendorf, 2007). As a result, government agencies have been formed. Agencies including, but not limited to: NATO, United Nations, Internationals Organizations (IO), the Europe Union (EU), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). These organizations are "active in anti-trafficking" (Friesendorf, 2007). Agencies, such as the EU and the OSCE, are effective because they are able to communicate with each other, find a common goal, and see that the goal gets completed. Whereas, independent agencies that do not always communicate or work together. Government organizations are also extremely effective because their funds come from the government. This funding allows these agencies to do a broad range of anti-trafficking efforts, whereas an independent organization must budget their spending to certain areas where they feel the money is needed the most.
Government can also be more effective because it can make the laws and has the ability to enforce them. In places such as India, laws are being made to punish the clients of human trafficking, not the sex workers (Silverman, 2007) and the UN agencies are looking into solutions for the crisis in Congo, where it has reportedly gone "far beyond rape" (Anonymous, 2008). In Brazil and in Amsterdam, government actions have been taken towards the fight against sex slavery (Anonymous, Amsterdam to regulate prostitution, 2008; Anonymous, Brazil Fights Trafficking, 2005). Also in Cambodia, they have closed 50 brothels has part of efforts against the sex trade. However, their actions were more for political purposes than for actually resolving the problem. "Efforts to stop the trade are undercut by corrupt officials and by Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party government" (Mc Clelland, 2003). In Europe, most of the countries have "adopted legislation against human trafficking" (Friesendorf, 2007).
The majority of Europe has adopted a system in counter-efforts against trafficking. The system consists of five steps: Legal measures, prosecution, protection, prevention in countries of origin, and prevention in countries of destination (Friesendorf, 2007). Most of Europe is making sex trafficking illegal and a criminal offense, as well as, some European states working together with their laws and seeing that they are not counteracting each other. Prosecution is a major factor in the anti-trafficking laws. The prosecution role is to enforce the laws being set forth. Prosecution is responsible for punishing traffickers and those who allow trafficking to happen. Prevention in countries of origin, such as: India, Nepal, Thailand, or Cambodia, is an essential part of the process, however its effects will not be seen immediately because it is a long term approach. To get to the bottom of sex slavery, the issue of poverty needs to be addressed. Practical employment opportunities need to be made for women coming out of slavery. Lastly, prevention in country of destination is a step where governments can improve upon the migration laws and "employment opportunities" (Freisendorf, 2007).
Nongovernment agencies, also known as NGOs (numerous nongovernmental organizations), are more deeply involvement in the fight against trafficking, and are solely concerned about human trafficking as a "serious human rights violation" (Freisendorf, 2007). Government personnel from NATO and UN operations have neglected the issue at hand (Friesendorf, 2007). Often government agencies, like the police, are more occupied with other issues, such as civilian crime, which keeps them for handling a situation in a proper manner. When the police deal with women in sex trafficking they are arrested and deported if they are an illegal immigrant (Friesendorf, 2007). The law does not account for the trauma these women have experienced and often fail to treat them with compassion. The police forget the "psychological and physical torture, rape, drugging, and murder" these women have been exposed to. For this reason, nongovernment organizations must be the solution (Friesendorf, 2007). Women and girls whose lives have been traumatized by this event need to be put in a shelter or a rehabilitation center where they can be nursed back to health: emotionally, mentally, and physically.
Nongovernment organizations have had, and continue in many efforts to fight against sex trafficking. The American Anti-Slavery Group (AASG) has been known to go to the Sudan on missions to free slaves. In one mission AASG purchased the freedom of 4,400 slaves and on another mission liberated 7,000 slaves (Re, 2002). In another effort, a Christian organization known as Rapha House, is focused on a similar approach. Rapha House has voluntary ex-Navy Seals who go to the "red light district" in Cambodia. A "red light district" is about couple blocks or streets where brothels are. These ex-Navy Seals go into a brothel posing to be a client, pay the money, and then steal the girl or girls. The girls are then taken back to the Rapha House, where they are provided shelter and can learn practical skills that will help them, such as being a beautician, so they do not have to go back to the sex industry. Sadly, some of the girls come to Rapha house addicted to drugs and often escape and go back into slavery because they are so addicted to these drugs (Perry, 2009). While the efforts are noble, the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) warns that purchasing slaves to free them, may not be the best way to rescue them. "According UNICEF, to purchase slave, even to free them, is still [going] to contribute to the profitability of the slave trade by raising demands for slaves" (Re, 2002).
The government and NGOs cannot be affective when the act separately. The government agencies can make the laws but they have trouble enforcing the law. However, the government has sufficient funds, which makes it efficient. Nongovernmental agencies are looking for direction action, which the government cannot give. So what is the solution? They work together.
With the five step program that Europe has adopted, even the NGOs have stepped in on the process. The NGOs have begun to set up hotlines in which people can call and give information to any suspicious activity that might be going on (Freisendorf, 2007). NGOs such as Rapha House and AASG are working hard to raise awareness of human trafficking, by telling people through conferences and fundraisers. But one does not need to be in an organization to make a difference.
As Americans we become apathetic to the world around us, but now it is our time to make a difference. It is our time to break free of this generation's lazy and selfish stereotype. It is our turn to be the change. But many may ask, "How?" There are several ways to change the world we live in without going half way around the world. A major issue with sex trafficking is that very few people are informed about the situations facing so many women and girls around the world.
As Americans, we have the resources to raise awareness to the nation. With the technology we have today, raising awareness is not a long stretch for most of us. How often are we on Facebook or Myspace checking and updating our status or talking to friends? Facebook makes our ability to reach others extremely easier than it would have ten years ago. With technology like Facebook, one could simply make a group informing people of the slavery women and girls are facing. Or send a mass message to all of their friends just to make them conscious of what is going on in the world around them.
But some might say, even if the whole country knew, nobody would do anything to make a difference. So start the epidemic. There are many organizations including Rapha House, are always in need of donations. Organizations like Rapha House, need money for necessities, such as beds, sheets and pillows, and shoes. Many NGOs have websites where donations can be made. Donations for Rapha House can be made on www.freedomforgirl.com or on their Facebook application.
Why do we, as humans, constantly wish for a change, but are not motivated to act and be a force to produce change. Gandhi said it best, "You must be the change you wish to see in the world." So start the epidemic of good deeds. Be the initiator. Change begins with someone simply caring.
