Rachel Steinbach
Kacei Beagen
English 105
April 2009
Negative Influences
There are changes constantly happening throughout the world and many of these changes are influenced by others. Influences like celebrities wearing shirts saying 'Rock the Vote' are trying to inspire the youth to vote in political elections for the nation. Celebrities [SS1]are promoting save the earth with recycling by: showing Hybrid cars in the magazines, on television and movies; giving out free recycling t-shirts, and handbags; and recommending reusing grocery bags when going to the store. The music industry has also influenced society in a positive way and it has bettered the nation. A subset of the music industry "hip-hop", was at one time helpful to society; however, with all of the vulgarity in the music and in the music videos now, it is, unfortnuantly, negatively affecting society.
During the beginning of hip-hop, there were many positive aspects that bettered society. It let people voice their opinions, and let their voice be heard instead of being ignored. It also gave an output for many who were on the 'streets' to put their energy into good use. The music that it played was for others to relate to, as well as giving power to women in the music industry. It was a way for them to show that they also have a voice.
As the hip-hop industry has grown, it has not necessarily grown in a positive way. Females are represented as pieces of meat. The hip-hop industry is demeaning to women and not giving them the same respect as men. The males in the industry are given the role of the 'master' and are served what ever they desire. In the past, women have always been looked at as second to men. Women's role has been to bare children and to take care of the family's needs, while the men in the family do whatever they desire. The males could choose any career that they wish while the females have been looked down upon for leaving the home. Females were not allowed to speak outwardly, and not able to leave the home without a male escort.
In the early 1900's women's rights changed our nation. Women have come so far from the opportunities that were once denied. Peoples' opinions have changed from what was first thought of women. Now women are CEO's of large companies, and given equal wages as men. When the United States first became a nation, women were not allowed to vote. Now, women are allowed to vote and, in the most recent election, a woman was very close to becoming the first female president. There was also another woman, in the recent election, running to become the first female vice president. These accomplishments are not seen by the way that women are portrayed by the hip-hop industry.
With all the major accomplishments made for and by women, the hip-hop industry acts as if these accomplishments do not even exist. They refer to women with terms such as 'pieces of ass' that are belittling to women and affecting them more than it seems to the eye. Artists talk in derogatory terms towards women in songs as well as in music videos and are making it seem as though no big deal. As said in 'A hip-hop revolution?' an article written by Herb Boyd, "Music videos show women as objects of pleasure to men and are shown in almost all sexual parts of male videos. The music videos have become so exploitive to women that it is a kind of pornography and is not seen as offensive in any way, it's considered the norm" (Boyd). There are not many videos with the women working or doing some kind of respectable act. They are only portrayed as sex objects.
When women are shown in a kind of respectable act, the outfits that the women are told to wear contain very little fabric, and is considered conservative. Most of the time women in the videos are in bikinis and are[SS4] made from little fabric. In reality, the outfits would most likely thought of as lingerie. No matter what the women are wearing, they are always put into[SS5] a sexual manner just for the pleasure of men. This provides men the illusion that all women look and act just as the women that are portrayed in the videos.
For women today, there is now pressure for them to look picture perfect like those seen in the videos. When women do not "measure" up to what is considered acceptable, they begin to question themselves. This is causing low self esteem, making many young women lose respect for themselves and making them think as though they are not worthy. When men treat women disrespectfully, women think that they somehow deserved it and that they will not get attention if they stand up for themselves, thinking that they are not worthy.
Michaela Davis is an artist who had been in the hip-hop industry from the beginning, but, due to this portrayl of women, has quit her job. It was one of her largest passions - she had always loved how the music was inspiring to others and could never get enough of it. This decision to quit was when her teenage daughter asked why the women in the videos wore such revealing clothing. Her daughter did not understand why the women could not wear regular shorts or pants and a cute top instead of skimpy bikinis, scandalous tops and dresses. After this was brought to Michaela's' attention, she realized how much these things affected girls as well as her own daughter. Michaela Davis realized that she was working and promoting a message that she did not believe in as well as did not want her daughter to pick up on" (Davis page 1)
Women are obviously the most affected by this negative portrayl of women because they are the ones who are being exploited, but men are also affected. Men are taught that the way that women are referred to and treated in the videos and music in the hip-hop industry is normal, and that this is how women should be treated and thought of. If a man were to go against this, he would be made fun of and laughed at. He may not be considered manly anymore by his peers. He would be considered[SS7] a wimp or "pussy", which is the exact opposite of what the truth is. If a man was a real man, then he would respect women. He would also respect and not make fun of other men who did not give in to what was considered the normal physical attributions and low[SS8] standards of women.
Men have also been influenced by the hip hop industry, not only to treat women without any respect, but they have also been taught to act rude and disrespectful to people in general. If they show respect and are considerate of other people, it means that they are showing signs of weakness. One[SS9] example of this is in the movie Take the Lead directed by Liz Friedlander. The character Rock had not been let inside of a school function by the principal. When Rock went outside, two guys told him to let his anger and frustration out on the principal's car. Rock told them that he did not want to do something that could get him into anymore trouble, and that the two guys were bad influences. When Rock started to walk away one of the guys called Rock a "pussy". Rock turned around and gave in to the temptation of the two guys. This is another input from the media that reinforces the hip hop industry's portrayl of how men should not be weak. [SS10]Telling males if they back down and do not accept a challenge, then they will be called names. Showing signs of weakness would make men lose their credibility.
The hip hop message tells men that they have to show that they are "legit" and not to care what other people think. This is a mentality that may[SS11] actively found in those who are in gangs. If they show weakness, they will be put down[SS12] in their place.
Another example of this is from the movie Take the Lead. The scene is towards the end of the movie when Rock decides to take the position as the look out, while packages are being transferred for an illegal drug deal. When Rock tells the person in charge that he does not think this is a good idea, he tells Rock to shut up or he would be put in his place. Rock sets off the alarm, causing the deal to go unfinished. After the leader beats up Rock, he tells him that he better watch out because it was not even the beginning of what was to come. In this scene of the movie, a person[SS13] is beat for going against what another has said gives a mentality of how reality is really like. When in actuality these type of scenes are examples and exaggerations of the director and writer imaginations of what the situation[SS14] would look like. With those who watch movies or television shows similar to this one, the exaggerated example is taken literally. Also at times these examples are taken farther[SS15] than the films would have ever expected making, causing the rate of crimes to rise.
This is also an example of how the message of standing up for what one believes in is the main aspect. Although has[SS16] been covered up with how the other guys are going to hurt Rock for going against what they said. According to the article Mixed Messages "showing the good of doing the right thing, although it comes with a heavy price to pay, which then turns the message around to do what is told or there will be large consequences. The aspect of mixed messages has been difficult for the hip-hop industry to grasp; putting the right message out to the public but is contradicted with the way it is presented" (Crosley, Christman, Mitchell).
The common phrase 'a picture is worth a thousand words' applies to this topic in a very large way. The music videos have a lot to be said about them and are one of the main aspects that are talked about with the controversy. But within the lyrics of song, just one verse could change a person's perspective and make serious issues seem like nothing. For instance in the article "A Community at the Crossroads" it shows how the messages that are being sent are giving the wrong impression and being mentioned too lightly. Many of the situations that the songs speak about are serious issues. For example "a man was put in prison for three years for dealing drugs"; prison and drugs are big issues. In result of the lyrics in the hip-hop industry, these topics are taken very lightly. This creates the illusion that it is not a bad thing to be involved in, and influencing young vulnerable listeners to do these acts.
Of those who are influenced by the hip-hop industry, the affects on people are different for individuals in different locations. For example those who are in the country, will be affected much differently than those who are located in the inner part of large cities. As well as the affect on individual from different types of households, and how an individual was raised. This does not mean that these people are not affected, just affected in different ways and in varying degrees.
During an interview with Ms. Belle Worthley she stated of a friend, who she requested to be left nameless, lives in the inner city of Los Angeles and how the hip-hop industry has affected her friend. 'When first speaking of her friend she stated of where he lived and how he was brought up. He would get made fun of and thought of less of a man if he did not act and treat women and individuals in general as if he did not care. When first meeting him she said that she was offended by his comments and did not want to be around him. When she got to know him, she said he was a completely different person also she believed it was because he was around a different group of people. He was polite and a really caring person but put off a front and wall that showed how "tough" he was. She realized that she had judged him too quickly and realized the effect that the hip-hop industry had on him and where he grew up compared to where she grew up'. With the realization of how much the hip-hop industry can negatively affect a person, it did not make sense that it is one of the largest industries in the music business.
In the beginning[SS17] of most every company or industry, the goal is to give another way for individuals to speak their minds or express themselves. What is not realized is how much the main objective must be kept in mind and not lost through the sales or how well the company is doing. This is exactly what went wrong with the hip-hop industry, it became more about the sales and the money than the main objective and that is giving a way of expression to the public. Instead of positively helping society, it turned to negative. This is what has happened to hip-hop; it affected society in ways that discriminate against not just women but men also. Influencing[SS18] young listeners and continuing the cycle of discrimination and derogatory terms and acts. Causing[SS19] those who have been with the industry since the beginning, to leave because the music and music videos have gotten out of control. This industry can change and move forward, although the ways of the music now must be left behind and not brought up again, or the public will be the ones who pay for the results of it[SS20].
[SS1]Whos is promoting save the Earth??? Celebrities??? If so, then state:
Celebrities are also promoting ...
[SS2]Potentially state the "music industry" instead of media. This will set up the hip hop portion of the music industry.
[SS3]Do you mean foreing countries or just in general?
If in general - ith would fit well by deleting in foreign countries and flow well with the earlier sentence -
[SS4]What do you mean here?
[SS5]Do you mean portrayed in a sexual ..
[SS6]Word
Initiated , started the process, something like that to fit.
I do not have the words now.
[SS7]Need a better segwa to transition from how this makes men treat women to how it impacts how they treat everyone and how they view situations.
[SS8]Not quite sure of what you mean here.
[SS9] Need example from hip hop or state one example of how the impact of the hip hop industry makes a man "feel" is similar to the the scene in the movie "Take a Lead" by ...
[SS10]This example does not show how hip hop music or music videos affect men
It is a good example of peer pressure, from a movie
[SS11]Do you mean
Need to clarify better what you mean in this sentence. This will tie in the next sentence.
Do you mean:
"mentality that is prevalent in men who are in gangs."
[SS12]Either put down or put in their place
Or add words to include both to get your point across.
[SS13]Rachel this statement is unclear - it doesn't make sense.
[SS14]Do you mean:
The writers imaginationof what they believe reality should look like?
[SS15]Do you mean:
had an impact and influence than the director or writer ever expected,
[SS16]What do you mean?
Although has been??? There is no noun. What has been covered up???
[SS17]This is not clear and needs to be reworded
[SS18]There is no noun. Who or what is influencing young listeners.
Maybe:
It is influencing young ....
[SS19]Same as previous comment - no noun.
Maybe;
I is causing those .
[SS20]Do you mean pay for the negative discriminateing influence.
Steinbach 1
