Hansen
1
Whitney Hansen
April 29, 2009
Ms. Beier
WP #5 Extended Argument
Present vs. Future
The debate over the importance and influence of music, art and physical education in grade school curriculum has long been debated and disagreed upon. For some time though the debate has become seemingly less fierce as many have accepted the positive effect these types of courses have had in shaping individuals and society. Why is it then that when money is tight and budgets are cut that these programs are immediately the first to go? It is an endless battle to keep the arts incorporated in curriculum. This issue has come home as the Flagstaff Unified School District is now going through the crisis of budget cuts and leaning towards ridding all of its schools of art, music, and physical education. These programs should not be taken away but rather the budget should be readjusted to allow them to continue right along with everything else.
On Tuesday, March 31st the FUSD governing board sent layoff or potential layoff notices to 332 staff members. This includes teachers, librarians, administrators, counselors, and psychologists working within the district. This comes to about thirty percent of its overall teaching staff. The notices were sent out as a precaution to combat the state educational budget cuts in funding (Davis). The layoff notices consisted primarily of reduction in force(RIF) notices. The RIF notices simply informed the employee that their current job is not secured for the next year and they might be let go. The potential of no action being taken and their job kept may happen also.
The precautions prepared the school district to make room for a $10. 5 million budget cut that is much higher than current estimates for the actual amount (Davis). The amount prepared for is about a 15% budget cut that is more likely to be put at around 5% (Educational Committee of AZ). The district's use of planning for the worst scenario is sloppily employed as they overestimated by three times what is being projected currently. Brainstorming workshops were not implemented until after layoff notices were sent out and could have helped plan out a less extreme plan of action for reducing the school budget for fiscal year 2010. FUSD superintendent Kevin Brown states himself that, "We just need that flexibility", implying the lack of planning that went into decided on what and how to make the budget cuts. A closer estimation of what was going to be lost could have been made. With the teachers currently chosen to receive RIF notices, art, music, and PE programs may be eliminated from the district's curriculum(Davis).
The decision to pinpoint art, music, and PE teachers as well as other staff members that operate in areas away from the core curriculum topics of reading and math is because these topics are viewed as disposable. Public schools are required to meet standards of reading, writing, math, and science through means of standardized testing required by the state. These state requirements are imposed by the federal government by means of the "No Child Left Behind" Act (Jaye). The current budget situation has led the governing board to decide on eliminating teachers covering topics not included in what the state has stressed most essential. Without teachers to cover their subject matter these seemingly elective classes will be eliminated from the curriculum.
The elective courses of music, art, and PE should not be eliminated because they are a support to core subjects. The arts are especially effective in enhancing the intellect of a person especially when studied at a young age. Studies have shown that "Arts education facilitates language development and reading readiness" (Hanshumaker). The emphasis of teaching reading and language arts is very important and including the arts in the curriculum will help further that endeavor. Taking away these supports will only put students who would have studied music or art at a disadvantage. They would have likely been able to perform better in English classes if they had the cooperation of an arts course. "Arts activities foster positive attitudes toward school and result in lowered rates of absenteeism"(Hanshumaker), and "Arts education facilitates social development, personality adjustment and general intellectual development"(Hanshumaker). The arts have also proven to encourage positive attitudes and better participation in attending classes as well as staying out of trouble. All of these factors encourage a better learning environment that then supports the entire school curriculum. All of these positive effects of music and art studies support the goals of the public education system.
With all the benefits of what art and music achieve in a child's education the lack of these classes would surely become apparent just as they are shown in studies when they are implemented. Once the course matter of these "electives" is no longer taught, I believe that the state regulated standardized testing will have a negative showing. If a schools testing shows lower scores from whatever bar is set or from the schools previous years this results in less educational funding. With less educational funding more cuts must be made and little or no money is available to support better education to meet state requirements. Thus, future years will probably result in lower test scores and a downward spiral in the quality of our education is created. This method of awarding high test scores with money and low test scores with less funding is a result of the "No Child Left Behind" Act. This act required a state implemented method of gauging school performance on select "core" academic curriculum rewarding schools with more or less funding in correlation with if they show achievement in learning the selected topics or falling below par. This is just one part of the Act that is important to my topic and argument.
Without previous study in music and art or participation in sports, opportunities in higher learning are diminished. Music, specifically, requires a decent background and study that can be covered in public school systems to be able to do studies at a university level. Opportunities involved with this art are completely taken away. Art, too, holds more educational studies in higher education. These courses then shape career studies and emphasis. Physical education usually leads right into sports and some student athletes get through college with grants and scholarships based upon their athletic ability that they discovered because of a previous schooling and what it offered at a young age. The core curriculum requirements help students learn what they need to function in society but electives open creative outlets and offer introductions into what they can go on to study or pursue. They also simply create a more rounded person.
The short-term goals of standardized testing and teaching to the test do not lead to the kind of people that our society should be creating. This shortsighted outlook is mostly due to poorly constructed legislature and educational tactics by the federal government but what can be controlled at a local level should be done with extreme care. A long-term outlook will benefit everyone more effectively.
Many music and sports programs function largely off of fundraising. More efforts to utilize this method could be made. The community of Flagstaff would benefit by becoming more involved with their children's activities. Grants can be applied for and taken advantage of. When teachers and student have to find means of supporting their programs this can build teamwork skills and a more invested interest in what they are doing.
The initial reaction to a budget cut was poorly organized by the FUSD governing board with the preparation of three times larger cut in funding. This upset many and has caused some teachers to pack up and look for work elsewhere before taking chances and waiting for the state to announce their educational budget plan. As soon as the RIF and non-renewal contract notices were sent out many of those on the receiving end responded. One teacher was willing to take a pay cut over eliminating any of the programs and many others might have been willing to do the same to secure their job instead of looking for a new one and a new home in a failing economy (Davis). More discussion and ideas should have been discussed before making rash decisions for "flexibility".
The overall organization of the handling of the districts financing is making matters more drastic. Besides the state budget reductions the school district is $5. 1 million below what they need for their 2010 school year budget. The reasons include a $1. 9 million budget override that was mistakenly not renewed, $535K lost because of lower student enrollment, $1. 5 million less in state money to cover sales tax on land and class site collections, and $1. 2 million less in state-funding for "excess utilities." The budget override was simply forgotten and not given an important enough status until it was remembered and left off the voter's ballot. A reserve of $4 million is going to have to be used to take care of this situation (Davis). That reserve of emergency money should have gone to the budget cuts being placed before us. Organization and priorities should be addressed in these tough times to secure the education of students. The students right now will cultivate our future and hopefully get us out of the crisis situations the economy and world are in. Great care should be placed in their education.
