7
Sandberg
Sara Sandberg
Jacki Belknap
English 105
27 April 2009
Global Warming: Natural
"You know, to think that we could affect weather all that much is pretty much arrogant." -Chad Meyers, CNN Meteorologist
Global warming is an average increase in the temperature near the Earth's surface and in the troposphere, which can contribute to changes in global climate patterns (Basic). The current popular thought is that global warming is a by- product of human excess, but how can this be proven when humans have only been living on earth for roughly 200,000 years while the Earth itself is over six billion years old?
Mother Nature is so big, the world is so big, the oceans are so big - I think we're going to die from a lack of fresh water or we're going to die from ocean acidification before we die from global warming, for sure.. But this is like; my career has been 22 years long. That's a good career in TV, but talking about climate - it's like having a car for three days and saying, 'This is a great car.' Well yeah - it was for three days, but maybe in days five, six and even seven it won't be so good. And that's what we're doing here.
-Chad Meyers CNN Meteorologists
With the little amount of information man has obtained throughout his years on Earth, trying to determine the Earth's weather patterns is difficult based on such a short span. "Climate will continue to change, as it always has in the past, warming and cooling on different time scales and for different reasons, regardless of human action" (Two). Global warming is a natural occurrence and has been a frequent event ever since the Earth's creation, constantly changing the climate.
Earth has its' own natural climate system, or "the average course or condition of the weather at a location usually over a period of years as demonstrated by temperature, wind velocity, and precipitation" (Merriam). This climate system is specific to regions, depending on longitude, latitude, altitude, persistent of ice or snow cover, as well as nearby oceans and their currents (Health). The Earth's climate has changed many times during the planet's history, with events ranging from periods of extreme warm weather and to ice ages. Natural occurrences including continental drift and mountain building, changes in the Earth's orbit by a volcanic eruption, or even the amount of energy from the sun, solar variability, released to Earth can dramatically change the weather (Health).
Popular belief is that global warming is man-made due to the increase in greenhouse gases. These gases such as methane, carbon dioxide, and nitrous oxide, trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere by allowing direct sunlight to reach Earth's surface, which then heats the surface. The sunlight is then also reflected back into the atmosphere and then escapes out into space. When there are too many greenhouse gases present, it raises the Earth's natural temperature (Greenhouse). The assumption is that the greenhouse gases, which are natural gases but can also be man-made, are due to the occurrence of human activity. This idea of man-made global warming is, as Chad Meyers said, "Pretty much arrogant".
At first glance, it is quite reasonable that humans could be responsible for global warming. After all, the burning of fossil fuels to generate energy releases large quantities of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, which in turn, heats the Earth's surface and atmosphere. The carbon dioxide level has been increasing steadily since the beginning of the industrial revolution, which is now 35% higher than it was 200 years ago. It seems to be a correlation that the carbon dioxide levels have risen as well as the Earth's temperature. However, as every Northern Arizona University freshman knows, "correlation is not causation". During the last century the climate has been slowly cooling while the carbon levels were rising. Also it should be noted that climate has not warmed in the past eight years, even though greenhouse gas levels have increased rapidly (Policy).
Even though humans have never experienced rapid global warming, the planet has and during which, kept records of these happenings in organic material such as sediments and fossil deposits. Thin layers of mud, sand that form at the bottom of lakes, and air bubbles trapped inside glaciers recorded seasonal and extreme changes in the climate. Trees are also really good keepers of the Earth's past climate. Scientists are able to study tree rings, which are grown each year by the tree, making the trunk wider. The thickness of a ring depends on what the weather was like during the year in which it grew (Climates). With this research, scientists are able to prove that the Earth has seen changes in the climate from periods of extreme warm weather to periods of extreme cold weather. Five hundred thousand years ago the Earth lost the North and South Poles four times, they disappeared and reformed four times (Global).
Martin Kennedy, David Mrofka, and Chris von der Burch conducted a study where they collected hundreds of sediment samples from rocks in South Australia. These scientists studied each sample with stable isotope analysis, which is an important instrument used in understanding the Earth's climate in the past. "Our findings document an abrupt and catastrophic global warming that led from a very cold, seemingly stable climate to a very warm, also stable, climate state - with no pause in between," said Kennedy (Climates).
The Earth used to be covered by a hick ice sheet of millions of years before the warming started about 635 million years ago. Kennedy, Mrofka, and Burch's research suggests that a little warming caused the ice sheets to melt and then collapse. This released methane into the atmosphere, which had been frozen in the ice sheets. The methane increased global warming rapidly because of the trapped air bubbles in the ice sheets were full of methane and other organic greenhouse gases. These natural greenhouse gases trap heat inside the Earth's atmosphere, further warming the Earth. The more greenhouse gases such as methane released into the air, the more heat trapped inside the Earth's atmosphere. And with the icecaps melting and releasing these gases, there are contributing to natural global warming (Climates).
Today, as was millions of years ago, methane is in Arctic permafrost and beneath the oceans. Researchers believe that these sinks of methane will remain where they are unless triggered by global warming. It is possible that very little warming can unleash this methane, which could in turn warm the Earth tens of degrees. Along with releasing greenhouse gases, the snow and ice are light in color, which means they have a large albedo - the ability to reflect most solar radiation back out to space. When snow and ice melt, less energy is reflected and this causes even more warming because all of the energy is being absorbed by the Earth and not imitated back into space (Climates).
There is a theory that the Earth used to be a burning ball of fire, hotter than the sun and it was comets and asteroids that colliding with the Earth that brought the necessities to create life, such as water and simple organisms, to the Earth. Again, we do not know if this theory is correct because no one was around to witness it, but this theory does still proves that the Earth has been in constant motion, changing and evolving. Antonio Zichichi, a retired professor of advanced physics at the University of Bologna, proposed a theory is that the fluctuations of cosmic rays have had a huge influence with the Earth's climate (Global). Unstoppable Global Warming proves this theory by showing that the Earth's temperatures have followed variations in solar intensity through centuries of sunspots records, and finds cycle of sun-linked isotopes in ice and tree rings. This book cites the work of Henrik Svensmark, a physicist at the Danish National Space Center in Copenhagen, who says cosmic rays vary the Earth's temperatures by creating more or fewer of the low, wet clouds that cool the Earth. Cosmic rays continually slam into the Earth's atmosphere from outer space, creating ion clusters that become seeds for small droplets of water and sulfuric acid. The droplets then form low, wet clouds that reflect solar energy back into space. When the sun is more active, it shields the Earth from some of the rays, cloud wane, and the planet warms (Two). Change to the cycle of solar activity, called the 11-year solar cycle, can cause a small impact on the climate, too small to point the finger for the recent climate change. Over the thousands of years, changes in the way the Earth orbits around the Sun can cause large changes in climate (Climate).
A lab professor at Northern Arizona University, Eric Helfrich, was lucky enough to work and study the icebergs up north in the Arctic. He studied the 200,000-year-old icebergs and was able to find out the climate of the Earth before human existence. His research showed that the climate of the Earth had never changed this drastically and warmed this fast in such a short amount of time. This evidence is convincing, if not all of the facts are given. The Earth is six billion years old and 200,000 years is not a good enough parameter of time to conclusively say that this is not a natural occurrence. There is so much we do not know about the planet we call our home and each day, man is learning something knew. It is just irresponsible to assume global warming is man-made when not all of the facts are given or even known.
With this knowledge of living during a natural global warming, there is no need for panic. We will adapt to the slow climate change, as humans have before. But there are things we can do to make sure we do not contribute to a 'man-made' global warming. How we are living and using natural resources now could have a huge effect on the planet in thousands of years, we do not know how Mother Nature will react. Why should the generations to come deal with our mistakes and clean up after our mess?
We need international cooperation in recycling and energy conservation. The only way to protect our future is to change daily habits now. Recycling in other countries such as Europe, it is mandatory and Europeans are fined for not recycling. This could be the nudge Americans need to recycle and the solution to too much waste sitting in the landfills. Also, driving is an every day occurrence and sometime necessity, which uses natural gas and produces carbon dioxide. Caron dioxide is a greenhouse gas pollutant and even though it has not had an effect on our climate yet, it could be the downfall of the climate in the future. An easy change to this daily routine would be to carpool, walk, or even a ride a bike to daily destinations. While brushing your teeth, do not leave the water running, turning off lights when no one is in the room, and also giving old clothes and accessories to goodwill, another form or recycling. Man needs to respect and help the planet stay on its' natural course for us to continue living on Earth.
With all of this evidence pointing towards natural global warming, this does not mean that man should just continue abusing the Earth. Soon enough, the natural resources we use everyday and take advantage of are going to run out. There are 3,091 active landfills and over 10,000 old municipal landfills currently in the United States sitting, untouched, and contaminating our air (Hazardous). As visitors on this planet, we need to reduce, reuse and recycle and do the best we can to keep our Earth on its' natural course. There is nothing we can do to stop this global warming because it is natural. If we try to keep our footprints on Earth invisible, the Earth can stay on it's natural course and we can continue living on a habitual, natural planet.
