Jessica Metts
April 16, 2009
Belknap English 105
The Ethics of Hunting in the United States
Hunting has been practiced by humans since the dawn of man. Until the last century or so hunting was fundamental to human survival, but now it is mainly a pastime practiced by millions of Americans. But there are also many who oppose hunting, believing that it is cruel, dangerous, and has a negative impact on the environment. While unregulated hunting did cause the extinction of many animals such as the passenger pigeon and the dodo, modern hunting in the U.S. is not only a safe, pleasurable recreational activity, but when managed properly actually benefits the environment.
One major claim by hunting opponents is that hunting is dangerous to people in addition to wildlife. In order to make hunting safe for hunters and other outdoor enthusiasts, hunters take a mandatory safety course before being permitted to hunt. A hunter's safety course covers safe handling of firearms, hunting regulations, target identification, etc. While it is true that hunting accidents do occur, they are the exception and not the rule when it comes to the safety of the activity. The large majority of hunting accidents are caused by the unsafe behavior of select few individuals and do not reflect the hunting community in general, nor are they a testament to the dangerous nature of the activity.
Hunting is actually safer than many other outdoor activities, according to the International Hunter Education Association (IHEA). Their data indicates that in 1998 there were 92 fatalities from deer and turkey hunting compared to 1700 from swimming, 836 from boating, and 97 from scuba diving. Out of the 92 hunting fatalities, 28 were self-inflicted. Out of the two-party accidents (non self-inflicted) that were hunter judgment errors, 48 fatalities were caused by the victim either moving into the line of fire, the victim being out of sight of the shooter, or the victim being mistaken for game. These figures indicate that most hunting accidents are caused by mistakes made by the individual(s) involved and could have been prevented if more caution were used by both shooter and victim, not because the activity itself is exceptionally dangerous.
Besides the belief that hunting is a dangerous activity, another point made by those who oppose it is that hunting is immoral. Many reasons are given to support this idea. One of the main reasons behind this belief is that some people believe that hunting is cruel and is practiced to fulfill some violent desire shared by hunters. They believe that take pleasure from the deaths of animals and like to cause them undo amounts of pain. Other reasons people believe hunting is immoral include the thought that hunting is unnecessary in today's world, that wild animals have no chance against modern technology, and that hunting is just a generally inhumane activity.
There are many who believe that hunting is inhumane, but the truth of the matter is that no one is innocent of what some call cruelty. Hunters are no more inhumane than someone who buys meat from a supermarket the only difference being that hunters kill their own meat, while others pay someone else to do it for them. Even vegetarians are guilty of the deaths of animals. Many farming practices involve the use of trapping or other methods to prevent crop loss by wildlife, and most use pesticides to prevent loss by insects. Anyone who lives in a house or apartment is guilty of forcing wildlife out of their homes. Insect or animal, a life is a life and the truth of the matter is, no one is innocent of what some would call cruelty.
Hunters are no crueler than your average shopper and definitely kill more humanely than natural predators. When a human makes a kill, it is typically quick and even next to painless for the animal. Many people believe that animals killed by hunters suffer long, agonizing deaths, but it is not in a hunter's best interest to wound an animal that may be able to run away, becoming difficult or impossible to track down. Because of this fact, hunters strive to make the quickest, cleanest kill possible. And when compared to methods used by other predators, a shot from a rifle or bow is very humane. For example, wolves often chase their prey down and tear it apart while the animal is still alive.
The fact that hunters strive to make the kill as painless as possible shows that hunters are not the bloodthirsty savages they are often made out to be. While there are exceptions, as with any group of people, the vast majority of hunters do not hunt because they enjoy the deaths of animals, but for something deeper. Many hunters will say that they love animals, yet still partake in the kill. How can this be? Explaining the motivations of a hunter to someone who has never experienced the activity is nearly impossible. It is true that most hunters do not rely on game for sustenance, but people like to feel self sufficient. Hunters take satisfaction in the fact that when they make kill, they have successfully provided food for themselves and their families without anyone else's assistance. While it would be easier to go to a grocery store to get meat, a hunter takes pride in the fact that they have obtained it themselves.
People hunt for the same reasons people tend gardens. It is easier and probably cheaper to buy produce at a grocery store, yet many people grow their own vegetables. This is partly because they find the activity and the experience enjoyable and partly because of the product. Hunting is a bit like gardening in the sense that gardeners spend a lot of time and effort protecting and caring for their plants, and yet still eat them. Not that a plant is comparable to an animal, but hunters support the conservation of wildlife and laws to protect them, yet still hunt the wildlife-not solely to kill or for food, but for the experience of the hunt.
If the purpose of hunting is for the experience and not the kill, then why kill at all? The answer is simple. Without the kill, it is not hunting. The experience is not the same. In his book Meditations on Hunting, Jose Ortega y Gasset states, "One does not hunt in order to kill; on the contrary, one kills in order to have hunted." What this quote means is that the kill is not the fundamental goal of hunting, but rather the end result. Hunting is not done to fulfill a violent desire, but instead for the experience of hunting and for the challenge in it.
Many people wonder, "How can hunting be a challenge when hunters are armed with advanced weaponry while animals have nothing to defend themselves with?" There are strict regulations dictating what firearms may be used against which species of animals, and during what season. This provides that animals still have a fighting chance. For example, no automatic weapons may be used to hunt. And what game animals lack in weaponry they make up for in physical prowess. No species is defenseless, or it would be extinct. Period. Take the white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) for example. This animal has many adaptations used to avoid predators and defend itself, including from human hunters.
According to National Geographic, these deer can run in excess of 30 miles an hour, jump as high as 10 feet, and cover a distance of 30 feet in a single bound. The eyes of a deer are on the sides of the head, giving it about 310 degrees of vision. This allows the animals to be totally aware of their surroundings. Deer also have excellent hearing, far superior to that of humans. Although the sight and vision of a deer are excellent, what really gives this animal the advantage is its superb sense of smell. White-tailed deer have a sense of smell that is around 1000 times better than that of humans (National Geopraphic). With senses such as these, it is easy to see why the success rate for non-guided whitetail deer hunts averages at only about 20 percent nationally (Grau 152).
Wild animals have more than just superior physical abilities and senses that work in their favor. Many animals adjust behavioral patterns in response to predation risk. A study published by The Wildlife Society found that elk adjust their movements and grouping patterns in response to higher predation risks. The study showed that when elk are at the greatest risk for wolf predation, they form larger groups for more protection. During hunting season, they form smaller groups to help avoid detection by human hunters. During high risk periods from both kinds of predation, elk adjusted movement patterns and their choice of terrain to best combat the predation risk (Proffitt).
Although the success rate for many hunts is relatively low, many still believe that hunting is a threat to wildlife populations. It is true that in past centuries, unregulated or commercial hunting caused the extinction or decline of several species, including the passenger pigeon (Britannica) and the American bison (American Bison Society), but one must keep in mind that these incidents occurred before today's strict regulations came into play. Laws today ensure that populations are kept at healthy levels. Only a limited number of hunting tags are sold every year, and often big game hunters must obtain their tags through a 'draw' system.
A simple way to explain the draw system is this: hunters apply for a tag for a certain species, and a certain number of tags are drawn (Colorado Division of Wildlife). If the hunter gets drawn, they get the tag and the opportunity to hunt; if not, then they cannot hunt that species during the season they applied for. In some states where populations of certain species are high enough to become a nuisance, tags can be bought over the counter, but for the most part the draw system is used for big game. Most small game tags can be bought over the counter, but for most animals there are limits to the number that can be harvested per hunter. The exceptions are animals such as rabbits, which typically are very hard to eliminate from an area. The draw system ensures that the number of animals harvested is not greater than the population can sustain.
The draw system ensures that wildlife populations are kept at sustainable levels, but what is a sustainable level? The answer depends on the carrying capacity of the local environment. Carrying capacity is defined as, "the maximum, equilibrium number of organisms of a particular species that can be supported indefinitely in a given environment" (Dictionary.com). In simple terms, this means the maximum number of individuals an area can support. Biologists use the concept of carrying capacity to determine how much habitat must be conserved to maintain healthy wildlife populations (Michigan Department of Natural Resources). In turn, this data is used to determine the number of tags put into the draw system. Carrying capacity is determined by the amount of food, water, shelter, predation, etc. (Michigan Department of Natural Resources). When the carrying capacity of an area is exceeded, individuals begin to die off from disease, starvation, etc. Hunting mainly takes away from the annual population surplus, and if more than the surplus is harvested then it is never more than the population can sustain.
In many places in the United States, human encroachment on wilderness areas has driven off many of the natural predators that would prey keep wildlife populations in balance. Thus, wildlife populations remain unchecked and animals begin to degrade their habitat, lowering the next year's carrying capacity. It is when natural predators are absent or scarce in an area that hunting is needed the most and when hunting is the most beneficial as a conservation tool. This activity helps keep animal populations in check and helps to slow or even reverse the degradation of wildlife habitat.
Not only does hunting keep wildlife populations in check, it actually funds wildlife and habitat restoration. As recently as a few decades ago, wildlife survival was very much at risk. Many species had been wiped out completely or reduced to just a fraction of their original numbers. Partly to protect their own interests and partly to keep many species from going extinct, hunters and other outdoorsmen urged Congress to act. The result was an act called the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act, also known as the Pittman-Robertson Act, which was signed into law in 1937. Pittman-Robertson enacts a 10% excise tax on firearms, ammunition, and archery equipment, the proceeds of which are delegated to the states to be used for wildlife restoration and habitat management (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service).
The Pittman-Robertson Act may have been enacted and supported by hunters, but they are not the only ones who reap the benefits. Some claim Pittman-Robertson was designed to keep game population high for hunters, but the proceeds go towards all wildlife restoration, not just game species. It also pays for the acquisition and management of land used by wildlife, and humans alike, including hunters, campers, hikers, and other outdoor enthusiasts. "Of the Pittman-Robertson funds available to the States, more than 62 percent is used to buy, develop, maintain, and operate wildlife management areas. Some 4 million acres have been purchased outright since the program began, and nearly 40 million acres are managed for wildlife under agreements with other landowners" (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service). If hunters did not fund the management of this land, it might otherwise be used for agriculture, housing, or business (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service).
Hunting is not only a safe form of recreation that millions of Americans enjoy, it is an important wildlife conservation tool that benefits the environment. Taxes from hunting revenue fund the acquisition and management of wildlife lands that otherwise may have been used for agriculture or development. Hunting also helps to keep animal populations in check, and is a good replacement for natural predators, absent or scarce in some regions due to human encroachment. Wild animals are not defenseless against humans as they are sometimes made out to be, but perfectly equipped to defend themselves against predators, human or otherwise. Those who hunt them are not bloodthirsty, cruel, and do not have intentions to harm animals, but have much deeper reasons behind choosing to participate in an activity that is as old as mankind.
