John Cooper
English 105
April 20, 2009
Extended Argument Paper
The Controversy Concerning the Construction of the Glen Canyon Dam
The proposition for the construction of the Glen Canyon dam caused a great deal of debate amongst people with many different perspectives on the issue. There would be numerous effects from the construction of the dam, both positive and negative. One perspective on the issue concerning the construction of the Glen Canyon dam was those people who were against the construction of the dam. Another perspective is the perspective of those people who were in favor of the construction of the dam. A third perspective is the viewpoint of the Navajo Indians who inhabited the region prior to construction of the dam. The history concerning the Glen Canyon dam, as well as background information, help to provide an understanding of the issue. The perspectives of those people against the dam, in favor of the dam, and the Navajos can be examined by looking at the issue in terms of biological and ecological, economic, legal and political, as well as social and cultural effects.
The history concerning the controversy surrounding the construction of the Glen Canyon Dam is a vast, expansive one with many different people and aspects of life affected. Construction on the Glen Canyon dam started after a massive battle between two perspectives: those in favor of the dam, and those against the construction of the dam. According to the CP-LUHNA website, the Glen Canyon dam has a structural height of 710 feet, a storage capacity of 27,000,000 acres, and extends 186 miles up the Colorado River. The dam was completed in 1963 and has a generating capacity of 1,042,000 kilowatts(cpluhna.nau.edu). The Glen Canyon dam is an enormous structure that required a large labor force to construct, and a large labor force to maintain. The Glen Canyon dam forms Lake Powell, which is the second largest reservoir in the United States. According to the United States Bureau of Reclamation Colorado River Storage Project, Glen Canyon is one of the major suppliers of hydroelectric power to the western United States. The dam is the second tallest dam in the United States, sixteen feet shorter than the Hoover Dam(usbr.gov). This power is what allows the communities in the region near the Colorado river to survive. The Glen Canyon dam affects numerous aspects of life including the landscape of the land, the ecology of the region, the economy, the government which was responsible for construction and management of the dam, and people who view this issue from different perspectives.
Background knowledge including landscape evaluation and reclamation procedures allows for a better understanding of the region. Don Lyngholm studied the evaluation of landscapes broken down into three categories, which were information about natural values, an aesthetic evaluation index, and an evaluation of the beauty of natural landscapes. Colors, lines, planes, rhythm, texture, unity, uniqueness, habitat, natural beauty, and fragility are just a few of the characteristics that are used to evaluate a landscape(Lyngholm). Landscape evaluation has numerous factors to consider and can affect many people regardless of if they are indigenous peoples, citizens, or foreigners living in the United States. The Reclamation Program of 1948-54 was run by the United States Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation. The goal was to consolidate data that was used for making a program for the development of land and water resources in the western United States including the region that Glen Canyon is located in(United States Bureau of Reclamation). The land resources in the western United States are vast, although limited. This program was designed with this notion in mind to create the most efficient ways to manage land. The water dispute in the area surrounding Glen Canyon and the Colorado river was documented largely in newspaper clips from 1947-49. The proposition of the Glen Canyon dam had the support of many people, and the opposition of many people. In Documentation of the water dispute over the Colorado River between Arizona, California and surrounding areas, the Central Arizona Project concerned regions in Arizona such as the proposed building of the Glen Canyon dam and the proposed Senate bill 75. These propositions brought out many different perspectives in the region.
Maps concerning the dedication of new Arizona Wilderness areas help to provide a visual understanding. The map located below is an example of wilderness areas in Arizona set aside for preservation.
According to the United States Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management, the Paria Canyon and Vermillion Cliffs wilderness area had 110,000 acres set aside as National Wilderness areas(English 3). This is a tremendous amount of wilderness that has been preserved in the general region of northern Arizona near Glen Canyon.
Several studies were done on the Glen Canyon area concerning environmental impact. Don Lyngholm wrote a draft environmental impact statement entitled Directive for Making a Finding of No Significant Adverse Impact Within Glen Canyon National Recreation Area. The draft analyzed the proposed directive for the National Park Service internal procedures and decision criteria concerning the environmental impact of tar sand lease conversions in the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area(Lyngholm). This draft stated that the there was no significant impact.
John Wesley Powell was a pioneer in the 1800s who provided a view of how the region was prior to the construction of the Glen Canyon dam. In the Journal of 1871 Powell expedition through the Green River and Colorado Rivers, Powell gives a description of the rapids they crossed on the various rivers and the canyons they encountered(Powell). Powell endured many hardships on his journey from the Green River to the Colorado River to Kanab Creek. The expedition provided various information on the conditions of the river and the landscape. The landscape notes included information concerning the height and length of the cliffs, bluffs, and canyons.
One perspective for the controversy surrounding the construction of the Glen Canyon dam is the perspective of those people who were against the proposed construction. There were many reasons and factors that contributed to this perspective. The effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam consist of biological and ecological, legal and political, economic, and social and cultural aspects.
The biological and ecological effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam were a major concern for those people who were against the proposed construction. Part of the reason for the dissent against the proposed idea of the dam was the ecological impact that would occur after the construction of the dam. The construction of the Glen Canyon dam would reduce supply and transport of sediments, interrupted water flow would impact the water quality, non-native species would enter the ecosystem, and gradual decline of riparian vegetation would occur(www2.kenyon.edu). These factors would degrade the biological environment. One of the factors to cause the degradation of the ecosystem after the dam was built was the reduced supply and transport of sediments. Another factor is the interrupted water flow. The water flow that had a daily fluctuation would cause poor water quality as opposed to seasonal water flow. Other factors include the species that live in the ecosystem affected by the construction of the dam. These species would affect what can and cannot grow because of competitive inhibition.
The legal and political effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam did not do much to contribute to a portion of the public's dissent against the dam. The legal and political effects of the dam construction were a major role player for the perspective of those who were in favor of the building of the Glen Canyon dam.
The economic effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam was part of the argument for those people who were against the dam construction. The exceeding costs of the Glen Canyon dam are still being paid today. The dam does provide jobs, electricity, and power to the surrounding region of Lake Powell and Page, Arizona. According to the Glen Canyon Dam website, "the most substantial quantifiable costs associated with the Glen Canyon are the year to year costs." Some of these costs include auxiliary facilities and maintenance(www2.kenyon.edu). The expenses associated with the Glen Canyon dam as well as the initial costs to build the dam created a strong argument for the people who were against the construction of the dam.
The social and cultural effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam provide another argument against the construction of the dam. Some of the social and cultural effects include obstructing religious freedom of the Navajo tribe, lack of government concern for the Navajo reservation the dam was built on, and the effect on archeological sites(www2.kenyon.edu). One of the social and cultural effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam was obstructing the religious freedom of the Navajo tribe. The government has now turned the sacred Rainbow bridge into a tourist attraction. Another social and cultural effect of the dam construction is the way the land was dealt with. The site of the Glen Canyon dam was located on a Navajo reservation. The land was easily taken from the tribe for little compensation. Archeological sites were also buried under water when Lake Powell was formed by the Glen Canyon dam. The social and cultural effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam had severe penalties for Native Americans.
Another perspective for the controversy surrounding the construction of the Glen Canyon dam is the perspective of those people who were in favor of building the dam. The positive effects of the dam in support of this perspective's argument consist of economic, biological and ecological, legal and political, and social and cultural aspects. Some of the reasons that supporters of the dam cited were the economic benefits to Page, Arizona, water supply and power to much of the southwestern United States and parts of Mexico, recreation on Lake Powell, provision of jobs, and the introduction of new species into the region.
The economic effects of the dam were a major reason for construction for those who were in favor of building the dam. Some of the economic effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam include jobs, recreation, development of the economy in Page, water supply, and power supply. The dam created jobs because the construction of the Glen Canyon dam required a large labor force. In addition to jobs created by the original construction of the dam, there are also jobs for maintenance of the dam and jobs dealing with recreation. The National Park Service website stated that the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area encompasses over 1. 2 million acres with recreational opportunities on the water and in the backcountry as well as camping(nps.gov/glca). Recreational passes and tax dollars bring in enough money to supply maintenance and park jobs, and stimulate the economy in the region of nearby Page, Arizona. According to the Glen Canyon Dam website the dam has provided water and power supply for much of the southwestern United States as well as parts of Mexico(www2.kenyon.edu). This is a huge area of land to provide both water and power to, so likewise it stimulates the economy. Lake Powell, which is formed by the Glen Canyon dam is the second largest reservoir in the nation, second to Lake Mead near Las Vegas, NV. The Glen Canyon dam has created and helped the economy in the region.
While the Glen Canyon dam has disrupted the ecological system of the lower Colorado river region, it can be argued that this is not necessarily a negative thing. New species have been introduced to the region. The Glen Canyon Dam website stated that several new species were introduced to the region including striped bass, largemouth bass, small mouth bass, black crappie, walleye, bluegill sunfish, and channel catfish(www2.kenyon.edu). This is an amount of new species that does have important uses other than sport fishing. With a population of fish this large introduced into the region, the food supply has increased, and is exponentially increasing with every season as the fish breed. The Glen Canyon dam can be argued to have created some positive effects on the ecology of the region.
The Glen Canyon dam has had the social and cultural effect of creating a community nearby in Page, Arizona. Page was founded to supply a nearby workforce for the construction of the dam. According to the Glen Canyon Dam website, the Bureau of Reclamation was responsible for the founding of Page, Arizona. The Bureau of Reclamation advertised for doctors, dentists, pharmacists, etc. to move to Page, and in 1957 on Thanksgiving Day the first settlers moved to Page, Arizona.( www2.kenyon.edu) Today the town has grown to become much more, with many more businesses in operation than in the late 1950s. A major part of the economy of Page relies on tourism and recreation on Lake Powell and Glen Canyon.
The legal and political aspects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam have many years of different management and priorities. The construction of the dam was initially controlled by the government. The Bureau of Reclamation began the planning for the Glen Canyon dam. According to the Glen Canyon Dam website, shortly after the construction of the dam was completed a power change occurred. The management for water and power was run by the Western Area Power Administration.( www2.kenyon.edu) The Bureau of Reclamation is still responsible for the operation as well as the maintenance of the dam, and the National Park Service is responsible for managing the recreational opportunities at the Glen Canyon dam and the Lake Powell area.
A third perspective concerning the controversy about the construction of the Glen Canyon dam is the perspective of the Navajo Indians who lived in the region surrounding Glen Canyon. The Navajo Nation has experienced the effects of the Glen Canyon dam in a negative way. Some of these effects include obstruction of religious freedom, changing environment that created life changes, change of location for the tribe, and horrific work conditions for Navajos hired for the construction job.
The obstruction of religious freedom for the Navajo nation occurred because the dam violated their beliefs and brought much tourism to the area. According to the Glen Canyon Dam website, the Navajos believe that the land is sacred(www2.kenyon.edu). The Navajo nation believes that the land should be worshipped. The Navajos live entirely off the land. An example of the obstruction of the religious freedom for Navajos was the tourism brought to the area, particularly that of the Rainbow Bridge. The Rainbow Bridge has sacred value to the Navajo Nation. Prior to the construction of the dam, the Rainbow Bridge was rarely visited by anyone who was not part of the Navajo Nation. Since construction of the Glen Canyon Dam and the formation of Lake Powell, the bridge can be easily accessed. The amount of tourists that visit the Rainbow Bridge simply does not allow for the religious freedom to worship for the Navajos.
The changing environment of the region also negatively affected the Navajo Nation. According to the Glen Canyon Dam website, the construction of the dam changed the environment, which in turn affected the Navajos who inhabited the region. This affected the Navajos, who live off the land, to alter their methods against their will in order to survive(www2.kenyon.edu). The changing ecosystem affected the patterns that the Navajos used to herd and farm in the region. The Navajos had to alter their methods of obtaining food in order to survive.
The construction of the Glen Canyon dam forced many Navajos to change the location in which they lived. The Glen Canyon Dam website stated that after the government chose a site for the dam, the government simply enacted a land exchange at the site so construction could begin. The government did this without much consideration for the Navajos who lived on reservation land in the area(www2.kenyon.edu). The government took their own interests above the interests of the Navajo Nation for the construction of the Glen Canyon dam.
Many Navajos were hired for the job of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam. The Glen Canyon Dam website stated that, "These Natives, along with the other workers, were exploited and had to endure horrific conditions many times risking their lives." The treatment of the Navajos during the construction cannot be considered to be fair and equal treatment to all people.
The controversy surrounding the construction of the Glen Canyon dam affects many different people who have various perspectives on the issue. A perspective is those people who were against the construction of the dam. A second perspective is those people who were in favor of the construction of the dam. A third perspective is the perspective of the Navajo Nation who inhabited the area in which the dam was built. Biological and ecological, economic, legal and political, and social and cultural aspects, both positive and negative, were effects of the construction of the Glen Canyon dam.
