Miller 1
Kyle Miller
Ms. Kacie Beagan
Eng 105
28 April 2009
Extended Argument
The global warming argument is not if it is how. With media portrayal and skewed numbers its easy to detect an urgency amongst the nations to assemble and solve the problem. The question is if there is a need for urgency, there has to be a why and a how? If global warming is most definitely occurring, which is almost unarguable, then the if is not a matter in the debate, it is how it is happening which is the biggest concern. It seems as though not only media portrayal, but many highly established researchers are concerned with mainly the effects of green house gas emissions on the climate. The claim has been made and widely accepted that carbon dioxide and other green house gases are a problem. However, new research has given way to a new idea of a more natural phase shift in the world today. This new research has brought forth a theory called Natural Cycle and there is high evidence to suggest that the world is undergoing this Natural Cycle into an overall hotter world. The change is occurring at a slow pace which may just mean a natural adaptation for Earth's inhabitants. The evidence is very clear that global warming is happening and perhaps is even loosely tied to green house gases. However the issue at hand is not to diminish the likelihood of humanities role
Miller 2
but, to suggest that it is more so the role of a Natural Cycle that is the main source and catalyst to a heating world.
Since the world began, there has always been a natural cycle of heating trends to cooling trends. In 1837 a swedish scientist named Louis Agassiz discovered evidence and presented the first idea of there being a previous ice age. Through his theory being tested and probed, research concluded the theory to be fact. The discovery led to an obvious observation of the world being on a warming trend in the natural cycle, to where the Earth is now. The link between the warming trend and the cause since then, has been pinned to humanities out put of carbon dioxide and other green house gas emissions. The theory goes that, the reactions of the green house gases in the atmosphere is causing warming all over the world due to the out put of everyday life. However recent research displays a counteracting force in such events defusing the argument. According to Doctor Singer, a professor at the University of Virginia, previous Director of the U.S weather-satellite program and most recently the chief scientist of the department of transportation, says that much of the estimated damage to the ozone has been blown out of proportion. In a longitudinal study conducted by the National Academy of Sciences beginning in 1980 they estimated through computer simulation there had been an already 18% decrease in the ozone layer. However as time went on the numbers of destruction began to become smaller and smaller. By 1982, only two years later the same study yielded that only 7% of the ozone had been decreased, In 1984, 2% percent became the new statistic.(Singer F. 35) The information is an obvious
Miller 3
link between the amount of over exaggeration and actuality,
so then how bad is it? If information from computer simulation varies in such a drastic way that maybe green house gases have less to do with it.
Along with the discovery of overestimation in certain data, a new discovery of cloud reacting properties with the sun and the ocean during different rainy seasons provided evidence of the contribution of the Natural Cycle contribution to global warming. According to a study done in La Holla, California, global warming maybe aided by certain clouds over the ocean. The group from the Sripps Institution of Oceanography found evidence that yielded a direct connection with clouds in thunderstorms providing a natural increase in overall temperature. In there research vapors at the top of clouds froze forming huge stretching cirrus clouds. The cirrus clouds reflected much of the suns rays back into the ozone leaving the land and sea area in a cooled state from lack of sunlight. These rays over time intensified
Miller 4
increasing exposure and temperature. The cooler seas in return generated less water vapor due to less evaporation, which resulted in less cloud cover and gave way to more sun rays coming in to warm the sea overall(Hoke, Franklin 1). The research demonstrated the natural occurrence of the natural cycle but also the contribution of its effects to overall global warming. The evidence provides more than just the effects of green house gases being the issue to the global warming problems.
With the issues of weather yielding evidence of Natural Cycle, also has come the evidence in glacier land masses such as Antarctica. The argument of Natural Cycle in Antarctica in recent research has proven to be a proving ground for such a theory. In the mid-1970s scientists discovered that almost all the ice from west Antarctica had broken
off into the sea due to warming. The evidence came from over 120,000 years ago and it was discovered through the research that the sea level in this effect raised 16 feet(Vogel, Shawn 1). If it can happen then why couldn't it happen now? However this research brings in a whole new level of conflicting evidence on the cause of global warming. The question arises if it did happen in such a drastic measure 120,000 years ago, when there was no people what was the cause? Automatically the role of green house gases has to be thrown out of the picture because...well there was nothing to emit them. Unless you want to argue that there were human cave-man or dinosaurs, emitting CO2 when they breathed, in such abundance that the whole west Antarctica broke off, there is no argument. This research makes the claim of Natural Cycle look more and more obvious by the discovery. It seems as though it is the only option in the case of the missing part of Antarctica. In addition to the case of west Antarctica
Miller 5
researcher Stanely Jacobs of the Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory discovered through core drills in East Antarctica that between 1975 and 1985 ice accumulation actually increased. The strange thing about the findings however was that in the years between 1975 and 1985 there was a parallel rise in temperature while there was a rise in ice accumulation(Vogel, Shawn 2). This research evidence produces quite a few obvious questions in the way that this occurred. The source points back to the Idea of Natural Cycle being a main factor. Basically with the rise in temperatures the ocean vapors increased. This increase in ocean evaporating vapors produced a higher
production of storms. These storms in return produced a greater amount of snowfall and higher accumulation of ice. These results are contradictory to explanations of green
house gases and the severity in there role of global warming. Once again the action and events of the Earth's natural cycle seem to be in this case a key role in the effects of global warming.
It is very apparent in todays society and media as to the negative effects of global warming. The statistics are on TV, in campaigns and on most car commercials. In one day society is exposed to hundreds of negative effects of global warming. Regardless of the validity of the media portrayal there are scientists who have reason to believe that global warming has benefits. Over the next decade research is expected to keep a close eye on the change particularly in temperature. The IPCC projection for each decade is estimated at a . 3 degrees celsius change(Singer S. Fred 3). With this average number in sight, in the next 91 years the expected temperature difference will have changed approximately 6 degrees celsius. The change if kept on the estimated
Miller 6
path would occur very slowly. This pace in return could produce potential benefits in several areas. Agriculturalists for an example, expect that with an increase in CO2(plant food) crops could potentially grow faster and need less amounts of watering(Singer S. Fred). Other problems could also branch off and be solved from this one simple benefit, for instance sustainable development would be made more efficient and food could be sold for less. In addition to a greater crop growth probability of increased rain fall would raise 10-15% according to Robert Balling of ASU. According to the data estimations not only would crops benefit from the rain and higher temperatures but forests as well. In return a higher amount of forests and reforestation on the globe would mean trees and other plant life could combat the high levels of carbon dioxide in the air. In the process of photosynthesis the plants and trees use the CO2 molecule and converts them into organic compounds. With the Increased plant life on Earth there is a possibility for the population on plants to decrease significantly the amount of CO2 in the air. The Natural Cycle would be able to take place at a smaller level and be exhibited in trees and other processes. Not only is Natural Cycle be the heart of the issue but also its own remedy.
Within the argument of global warming and the causes, thousands of data and research is conducted every year. The likelihood of there being error within the data and over exaggeration is highly likely. Charlie Wax, Professor of Geosciences at Mississippi State University commented on the topic saying that," One factor that makes the issue so complicated is that weather records are not perfect." Maximum and minimum temperatures along with average rain fall is recorded at thousands of locations globally. Something that needs to be understood is that over the years researchers have been
Miller 7
changing in locations and in instruments and within that change there has to be variability of error within the recorded data(Muzzi, D 2). There may be a need to act on global warming, but with the likelihood of exaggerations being so high within the data the fight to go against global warming could be over estimated. Along with having doubts about the seriousness of the issue recent evidence in the past half decade done by the American Association of Petroleum Geologists suggest that the levels of green house gases have slowed or even stabilized(AAPG, 1). Not only levels of green house gases but, most satellite based and balloon based temperature measuring devices in the study reported having showed no significant increase in temperature in the lower atmospheric range. Many government funded projects such as Kyoto Protocol(A project to diminish green house gases)are being delayed because of such findings. The evidence regardless of the initial cause is showing that the over exaggeration in the media is nothing to be alarmed by. Even if the data was correct the media portrayal of fighting back at global warming by screwing in a florescent light bulb or investing in a Hybrid vehicle is not gonna do the trick. The thing is, if it is truly as bad as the statistics supposably tell us then the ability to reverse the effects is not probable at the point we are at now. Luckily, data has shown that to be false and that the past decade is showing hopeful signs of natural cycle being the cause and cure to the global warming phenomenon.
Within the argument of global warming, all sides must be addressed. While the effects of green house gas emissions may play a role in the overall picture it is certainly not the only one. The Earth has been undergoing a steady warming since the last Ice
Miller 8
age 10,000 years ago. Since before even that time, the Earth has undergone several other phase shifts from warm to cool. The reason for these changes or shifts in climate change are because of the role of natural cycle. The natural cycle has been proven on and throughout countless different research projects. The evidence is very clear in aspects of green house gases, glacier effects and other worldly properties that natural cycles role in global warming is more so the issue than that of humanities role. The over estimation of data and future crisis are derived from the same stats that bring green house emissions alleged role into the picture. The Earth is in a phase shift to a warmer planet, this is not to say that there are no effects coming form humanity. but to say merely that the role of natural cycle is the main role in global warming today.
