Brandon Hubbard
ENG 105
Erica Jones
4-27-09
Slow Government Response to Hurricane Katrina
Hurricane Katrina had changed American History when it caused the flooding of New Orleans. The city had been announced as one of the poorest cities in the United States. However, it is still popular when celebrating Mari Gras. The population was filled with many people from the U.S., mostly African-Americans, but also French immigrates. The storm had caused the city more than billions of dollars in damage and the city was already suffering from poverty. The city had suffered segregation between black and white residents and most of these residents were low-income. Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans, Louisiana in the early morning on August 29, 2005. The storm surge breached the city's levees at multiple points, destroying the dam that protected the city, leaving 80% of the city submerged, tens of thousands of victims clinging to rooftops, and hundreds of thousands traveling to shelters around the country. Katrina was estimated to be responsible for $100 billion (2005 U.S. dollars) in damages, making it the costliest natural disaster in the nation's history (Bumiller, The New York Times). The storm killed at least 1,800 people, making it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane. People with low-income suffered the most, whether they were black or white. Rescuers did intend to help save people from the flooding that overwhelmed part of New Orleans; sadly, rescuers were limited to few people as other residents was still stranded with no food, clean water or shelter. Celebrities expressed their disappointment with President Bush or the State government that consisted of a disapproval of management and a lack of leadership. The military and law enforcement quickly took security and moved fast enough to restore law and order in New Orleans, although some citizens felt they used negative force. Many people know that U.S. government responded to the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, but few people know that the U.S. government did not respond fast enough to save many people from the flooding of New Orleans
The rescuers did intend to help save some people from the floods that overwhelm part of New Orleans; unfortunately, rescuers were limited to few rescuers at the time along with other residents that was still stranded with no food, clean water and shelter. As Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans, it really impact local residents that are low-income. The storm surge breached the city's levees at multiple points, leaving 80% of the city submerged, tens of thousands of victims clinging to rooftops, and hundreds of thousands scattered to shelters around the country. Katrina was estimated to be responsible for $100 billion (2005 U.S. dollars) in damages, making it the costliest natural disaster in the nation's history. The storm killed at least 1,800 people, which it could have been reduced if there were enough rescuers. The attack happened on early morning on August 29, 2005, rescue attempts did not make full scale until a week later. Criticism of the federal, state, and local governments' reactions to the storm was widespread and resulted in an investigation by the United States Congress and the resignation of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) head Michael Brown (Kirkpatrick and Bryan, Journal of Health Care). Louisiana government was supposed to embrace emergency planning but it did not operate fast enough to secured effectiveness to help save all people from being stranded. Even state governments are accused of not responding to New Orleans by not sending enough forces to provided rescue attempts or creating emergency plans. The plan was not fully effective until a week later, along with other financial support from international helpers.
The criticism against government response was dramatically high, that celebrities and Medias are upset with Bush Administration on disapproval of management and lack of leadership. The GAO report was the latest to raise questions about the Homeland Security Department, which Congress had been criticized for gaps in aviation security, a faltering response to Hurricane Katrina and slow progress in securing land borders (Thomas Frank, USA Today). One of the journalist named Daniel Beland, a Canadian journalist, explains in his book "Insecurity and Politics: A Framework," that President Bush was lacking leadership as he was suppose to care more deeply on American people. He Quotes, "Although framing processes affect popular perceptions, political leaders do not have an unlimited degree of autonomy in constructing collective threats. First, as suggested above, constraints stemming from the "threat infrastructure" and the policy legacies that characterized each policy area can limit the ability of political leaders to shape the meaning of threats that have enduring, structural characteristics. Second, divergent voices are likely to question dominant frames before challenging the explanations provided by those in power. Skeptical citizens and journalists may organize to question sanctioned stories and force officials to provide new accounts of the situation in which they are involved (Tilly 2006: 174). To a certain extent, this was what occurred in the United States during the second mandate of President George W. Bush, whose credibility and popularity strongly declined in the face of the situation in Iraq and the seemingly inadequate federal response to Hurricane Katrina" (Beland, CJS). One of the famous singers, Kanye West, had participated in a one hour special with other celebrities like Mike Myers and Chris Tucker, produced by NBC news and NBC broadcast network. The reason was that they want to help raise money for American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund (Lisa de Moraes, The Washington Post). During the shooting with Mike Myers, Kanye West quoted an infamous speech, "George Bush doesn't care about black people!" At some point, the NBC News quickly changed the camera to Chris Tucker. The quoted was not scripted and it was told that Kanye departed from the scripted comments (Lisa de Moraes, The Washington Post). Comment quote from West was cut off only on West Coast, which East Coast was several-seconds delay (Lisa de Moraes, The Washington Post). Kanye West was serious of speaking his mind to have many Americans realize that President Bush was untrustworthy and embarrassment as president. Who was really the blame for criticism of Government response? The answers lie with three journalists as they made their final report: The House select committee that investigated Hurricane Katrina blasted all levels of government this week for "failures . that significantly undermined and detracted" from efforts to provide disaster assistance and rescue victims (Harris, Smallen and Mitchell, National Journal). The committee's final report, released on February 15 by Chairman Tom Davis, R-Va., faulted Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco and New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin for delays in "ordering a mandatory evacuation in New Orleans until 19 hours before landfall," and said those delays "led to an incomplete evacuation" and contributed to "deaths, thousands of dangerous rescues, and horrible conditions for those who remained" (Harris, Smallen and Mitchell, National Journal). The report said that Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff waited too long to initiate emergency response plans, and erred by appointing an unqualified disaster manager, then-FEMA Director Michael Brown. And the committee criticized President Bush for not getting involved sooner, which "might have resulted in a more effective response." Appearing before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Chertoff took responsibility for the department's failures, but lawmakers still expressed bewilderment at his actions. Chairwoman Susan Collins, R-Maine, found it "astonishing" that Brown was in charge, while ranking member Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., likened federal responders to the "Keystone Kops" (Harris, Smallen and Mitchell, National Journal). Back then, many residents would have agreed that Bush should have been impeaching due to his lack of leadership and fail to maintained positive force. Unfortunately, there were not enough people to voted Bush out since there are loyalists that still sided with Bush. People or famous people like Kanye West would really speak their mind as they want audience to help out.
The military and law enforcement quickly took security in New Orleans and they move fast enough to restore law and order, but they used negative force, causing more chaos among residents. The first problem starts with the wake of Hurricane Katrina, New Orleans authorities announced that only police would be allowed to possess firearms and proceeded to seize lawfully-possessed firearms from citizens at gunpoint (Halbrook, GMUCRLJ). The report goes on discussing the reaction among citizens that such announcement was unfair and suit was filed alleging that confiscating firearms had violated the rights to keep and bear arms under the Federal and Louisiana constitutions, deprived citizens of liberty and property without due process, violated equal protection, and constituted unlawful searches and seizures (Halbrook, GMUCRLJ). The residents argued that this action was against the Constitution and that residents complained that they need protection against troublemakers and criminals that may threaten their lives, which the law enforcement would not always protected people twenty-four hours. Another problem was that law enforcements are not much caring when disarming residents from their firearms, especially when some citizens are elder. Example, A footage on Patricia Konie, a 58-year old petite woman at her home with an old revolver for protection which several burley policemen slammed her to the ground, fracturing her shoulder, and took her into custody (Halbrook, GMUCRLJ). This treatment was shown as a point on how law enforcements use negative force when trying to restore law and order. According to new reports, A Louisiana police chief had admitted that he ordered his officers to block a bridge over the Mississippi river and force escaping evacuees back into the chaos and danger of New Orleans. Witnesses said the officers fired their guns above the heads of the terrified people to drive them back and "protect" their own suburbs (The independent.co.uk). One of the eye witnesses Larry Bradshaw, 49, a paramedic from San Francisco, told The Independent reporters that the desperate evacuees were forced to trudge back into the city they had just left. "It was a real eye-opener," He even quoted "I believe it was racism. It was callousness, it was cruelty." Mr. Bradshaw said the police blocked off the road on the Thursday and Friday after Hurricane Katrina struck on Monday 29 August. He and his wife Lorrie Slonsky, also a paramedic, had sheltered with others in the Hotel Monteleone in the French Quarter (Buncombe, independent.co.uk). He goes on telling more stories on how food and water ran out, that they were forced to head for the city's convention centre, but on the way they heard reports of the chaos and violence that was taking place there and inside the Superdome where thousands of people were forced together without running water, toilets, electricity or air conditioning. So Mr. Bradshaw spoke with a senior New Orleans police officer who instructed them to cross the Crescent City Connection Bridge to Jefferson Parish, where he promised they would find buses waiting to evacuate them (Buncombe, independent.co.uk). After conversation with the senior officer, they make their way towards the crest of the bridge they saw a chain of armed police officers blocking the route. When they asked about the buses they were told there was no such arrangement and that the route was being blocked to avoid their parish becoming "another New Orleans". They identified the police as officers from the city of Gretna (Buncombe, independent.co.uk). The following day Mr. Bradshaw said they tried again to cross and directly witnessed police shooting over the heads of a middle-aged white couple who were also turned back. Eventually, late on Friday evening, the couple succeeded in crossing the bridge with the intervention of a contact in the local fire department (Buncombe, independent.co.uk). Mr. Bradshaw and his wife were evacuated to Texas and have since returned to California. They condemned the authorities, adding: "This official treatment was in sharp contrast to the warm, heartfelt reception given to us by ordinary Texans. Throughout, the official relief effort was callous, inept and racist... Lives were lost that did not need to be lost" (Buncombe, independent.co.uk). Even when residents were stripped from their guns, some reported that they never got their guns back. The National Rifle Association (NRA) and Second Amendment Foundation (SAF) publicized the address and telephone number of the police facility so that owners could retrieve their firearms. While a number of owners went to the facility, most were turned away empty handed. Police requested original bills of sale which flood victims would not have and otherwise told claimants that they could not locate the firearms requested (Halbrook, GMUCRLJ). The author Stephen P. Halbrook himself notes his reflections that: "We went to the police facility where the guns are stored in a double wide trailer and a moving truck. Some are evidence guns (for criminal cases) but most are property guns (confiscated from citizens not accused of any crime). In both the trailer and the truck, there are piles of rifles and shotguns stacked on the floor (mostly hunting type, some military style), and large plastic buckets of handguns. The majorities are rusted, some unsalvageable, others in good condition. . . . The guns in good condition were apparently those seized from persons at their homes or in vehicles. Those in the worst condition may have originated from flooded homes when police conducted house searches for dead bodies and guns. . . . The guns are tagged. Many tags have no names but only an address, or only the address of the block. . . . The figure of 1,100 guns at the premises was given, including both evidence and property guns" (Halbrook, GMUCRLJ). It was incredible that he and his wife are still alive and that he told his side of the story of what happened inside New Orleans and Louisiana. As lessons are learned, many residents would make sure that their violated rights will never happen again.
American History on Hurricane Katrina really impact many people in America and that future storm like Hurricane Katrina will always be a threat. On the other hand, Americans are still holding together despite the difference of race or income statement. Hurricane Katrina did change the American History with huge devastation on property, buildings and other areas that cost nearly hundred billion dollars ever recorded. None of the residents accept defeat when they united as one big family, because New Orleans is still part of American life. The rescuers did attend to help save some people from the floods that overwhelm part of New Orleans; regrettably, rescuers were limited to few peoples as other residents that were still stranded with no food, clean water and shelter. Survivability was key to many residents and despite slow rescue attempts, many people were managed be rescued. Criticism on President Bush was very harsh, that today everybody was glad that he is not in office anymore. President Bush became the second hated president in America right after President Nixon. There were even signs by some residents that they want Bush remove from office, sadly, there are only few people that want Bush to be remove. The military and law enforcement did take security in New Orleans and they move rapidly to restore law and order, but they used negative force, causing more chaos among residents. Their reason is to prevent criminals or troublemakers from disobeying law, except that they made things a lot more difficult. As history moves on, the lessons in Hurricane Katrina are learned and that Homeland Security and East Coast will not to be repeating the same mistake twice. The two authorities will be prepared to reduce casualties and immediately respond to future disaster. As Americans stand together, hope can be restore and future of the U.S. can always be improve with friends that do care.
1
