Jennifer Dye
English 105
Erica Jones
04/28/09
Solar Habitat
Solar power is a wonderful technology that enables people to use less energy and leave less of a "footprint" on the earth. However when people use solar power too hastily, without thinking of the consequences, it can end up doing more wrong than right. The part of the Mojave Desert between Ludlow and Needles, Ca and near the Joshua Tree National monument was bought out by the Wildlands Conservancy for more than $40 million and turned over to the government with the intent on protecting it. It is one of the largest land purchases in California history. There have been talks about making this land into a monument as one of the only natural habitats of this kind left in North America. It provides a natural attraction for people from all over the United States. So why do members of the California government and electric companies want to build a massive solar power plant right in the middle of this natural, untouched, habitat? They are unaware of the importance of this land and do not care about anything else but building their power plant.
Some might think that the history of this land is irrelevant yet people learn from history all the time. History is a required subject taught in schools throughout the United States in order to teach people about the past. People learn about the mistakes this country has made along with the good ideas that make the United States what it is today. History also helps people to appreciate all that they have and how they were able to obtain it. How is the protecting the history of the Mojave Desert any different? We would be protecting the culture and values of specific eras for future generations to look back upon and learn from. "That section of the road is as pristine as it was when travelers came across it in the 1920's and1930's," said James Conkle, chairman of the Route 66 Alliance.
Going back even further to the 1770's, Mojave Indians used a network of pathways to cross the Mojave Desert to reach the Pacific coast from their homes along the Colorado River. It is the most natural travel corridor through the desert roughly bisecting the Mojave National Preserve. Indians guided Spanish explorers along the trail in the 1770's and in 1826 Jedediah Smith became the first white man to reach the California coast from mid-America. The United States Army improved on the road in the late 1860's and made it a major link between Los Angeles and the East. The railroad came in about the 1880's making mining and ranching profitable for some time. Now the original trail is popular among hikers and four-wheel drivers.
Some people might also think that the animals will adapt, but how well would you be able to adapt if your main source of food was taken away? There are endangered and rare animals and insects that live in the Mojave Desert. "The desert tortoise feeds on ephemeral plants in the spring and accumulates enough reserves of water to carry it through the remainder of the year." (Mc Ginley) If we wipe these plants out, we wipe out the desert tortoise. The "circle of life" gets disrupted and most often cannot be fixed. The area in and around Joshua Tree is one of the most important areas to keep protected. It is one of the only remaining blocks of intact habitat. These are fair questions to ask and things the people at these electric companies have yet to think about. There is no good that can come from making this hasty decision.
If the Mojave Desert was not suitable for such a project, they why would two of California's largest solar power companies join forces on the issue? Both companies are committed to the environment and want to create greener ways for Californians to receive energy. They are also two companies who pride themselves on being the leaders of renewable energy resources. The only thing they see is the amount of renewable energy it would bring to California and how, after a long while, California would eventually pay itself back and how we would be releasing fewer toxins into the air. What about the animals that became displaced and the plants that died off due to the thousands of solar panels plugged into the ground? People cannot just take over a natural habitat and not think of the consequences. "A wilderness, in contrast with those areas where man and his own works dominate the landscape, is hereby recognized as an area where the earth and its community of life are untrammeled by man, where man himself is a visitor who does not remain." Wilderness Act - Sept. 3, 1964. Man is a dominant being in this world, one that often forgets how to live in harmony with other beings. Life does not begin and end with us, but with all the animals that are on earth who need to live together. Of course a solar power plant has many benefits and will do a world of good for certain aspect of the environment, but taking away a habitat that is so dependent on being undisturbed will cause even more unnecessary damage.
There is, in fact, a project being planned right now that will allow Southern California Edison and Bright Source Energy to begin construction on 6,000 acres of land near Amboy according to Andrew Revkin of The New York Times. The one thing that will postpone the construction of this plant, according to an article in The Los Angeles Times, Senator Diane Feinstein and groups of environmentalists want to keep this land protected to ensure the safety of the natural habitat. This is the monument that would designate the land as a natural habitat. Diane Feinstein believes that the people of California should uphold this promise to keep the land protected, and building a solar power plant would go against why the land was handed over from the Wildland Conservancy in the first place. This is a moral issue that not many people are taking into consideration.
If there were not so much pressure put on the California government to create renewable energy, then they would realize that this area of the Mojave Desert is not the most suitable place for a solar power plant. One of the main reasons for using this specific area of land is because it is convenient. It is no more than forty-five minutes from either Ludlow or Needles and it is right near highway 40 and old route 66. The Mojave Desert in California covers an area of about 1,600,000 acres of land total. There have yet to be any boundaries drawn for the monument but it is said that it will take up about 800,000 acres. That is only half of the entire desert set aside for protection. This is a very reasonable demand.
There are many more advantages to building solar power in the Mojave Desert of California. Bright Source Energy, a company that has provided an innovative solar technology stated, "If we built energy plants on less than 2 percent of the land in the Mojave Desert, they would provide enough power for all of the homes in California and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by over 30 million tons per year." The amount of area needed for a project like this does not sound like a lot when you look at how much land there actually is in the Mojave Desert. However if it will take as little as 2 percent of land to create that much energy, then why do the proposed plants have to be built in the area that needs the most protection?
Senator Diane Feinstein understands the importance of solar power and the urgency at which California needs to produce it, so why is she slowing down its production? Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee says, "If there is such a strong support for renewable energy, then why are they moving to block the production in their own state?" (The Los Angeles Times) This is a very good question. Diane Feinstein disputed that she is engaged in a not-in-my-backyard campaign. "I'm a strong supporter of renewable energy and clean technology-but it is critical that these projects are built on suitable lands," she said. With only half of the desert proposed to be set aside for protection that still leaves 800,000 acres of land to be considered for the 6,000-acre power plant. Senator Feinstein is not "slowing down its production." She is simply being responsible and weighing the options of exactly where to put the solar power plant.
The major drawback to solar power is the fact that it is expensive to produce. According to Kate Galbraith, writer for The New York Times, "generating power from photovoltaic panels costs more than four times as much as coal, and more than twice what wind power costs." The good news, there is another way! The federal government and states have offered a variety of incentives to encourage homeowners and businesses to put panels on their own rooftops. These incentives range anywhere from grant programs for businesses, and property tax exclusions to rebates for residents and businesses according to the Database of State Incentives for Renewables. It is apparent that solar power is the future of California and it cannot be denied, so why can't Southern California Edison and Brightsource Energy come together and fund the conversion of outdated energy sources into renewable energy sources throughout California cities. Streetlights and lamps can be solar powered, as well as the rooftops of local businesses or new homes and developments. There may not be a need for such a big solar power project if these options were taken into consideration. It seems as though the plant in the Mojave Desert is the easy way out.
There could also be laws established that require California citizens be responsible for increasing their use of renewable energy resources by a certain percentage. Updating old appliances such as washers, dryers, dishwashers and stoves or adding solar panels to their rooftops are options. Funding for individuals could certainly come from the amount that would be spent on the proposed solar power plant. Making each individual responsible for these small things can create an abundant amount of renewed energy used. Companies that manufacture products such as dishwashers and washing machines could have regulations they need to follow in order to make energy efficient models. This would create some competition among manufacturers, which would decrease the cost for consumers. There are so many steps that we can take in order to use less energy and more renewable energy. The Solar Power plant does not have to be our only option.
Solar power used wisely and with the best of intentions in mind, can be a wonderful thing. Building this proposed power plant in the area near Joshua Tree is not a good idea and it will only do harm to the natural habitat of this area. This land was given to California with the intent on keeping it protected. It is a place that people still visit to this day. This area is one of the only natural habitats left in the United States and it needs to be protected still. Plants and animals of many species depend on the preservation of this land. The future is in our hands as well as in the existence of this natural habitat. The "footprints" we leave behind cannot be easily erased.
