Sara Clark
ENG105
4/20/09
Extended Argument
Who Killed Kennedy?
November 22, 1963 was a day in the history of the United States that will forever be remembered and taught to the people of the future. That day impacted the entire world and caused sorrow amongst the nation. As stated by Timothy Renick in his article, JFK and the Unspeakable, that quickly darkened day of November the thirty- fifth president of the United States, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, was shot and killed by two wounding bullets, one to the head and the other to the chest. Kennedy was a leader to the nation and a powerful man that was known for enforcing change in this country that was well over due. His life and term in office came to an abrupt end when he made his way down Elm Street, a public road in Dallas, Texas, and was assassinated shortly after his entrance (Renick, 48). From the moment Kennedy was struck by the bullets, theories and conspiracies were formed as to who the murderer of this man was. Many stories and ideas have been brought up relevant to the assassination and there have been suspects, but there have not been any official evidences concluding who this man was murdered by. The three most well known theories that have been viewed as responsible for taking Kennedy's life were Lee Harvey Oswald, a group conspiracy and the CIA. Although the assassin is still unidentified, there are many theories as to who was responsible for the President's death.
Although these conspiracies has yet to be proven as to who was responsible for Kennedy's death, a leading suspect was Lee Harvey Oswald. This theory is the most historical and most well known when in comparison to others. Oswald was a popular suspect in the eyes of the public due to his location and many other aspects that lead people to come to this conclusion that he was the murder of the president. In John Simkin's article Lee Harvey Oswald: Biography, it states that Oswald was a very unique and unusual man from New Orleans and was born on October 18, 1939. A few days before he was born, his father died, leaving his mother to care for him and his family all alone. Due to Oswald's challenging personality and anger in his life, his mother was unable to care for him and shipped him off to a children's home in hopes to receive a better life. (http://www.spartacus.schoolnet.co.uk/JFKoswald.htm)
He was given psychiatric treatment as a young child and continued through his years growing up. Oswald was said to have had many behavioral problems growing up and most were due to his resentment toward his mother for sending him away and in a sense giving up on him. Phil Willis explains in his article, Oswald Not Alone in JFK Murder, that when he was about seventeen years of age and old enough to leave the children's home, Oswald joined the United Stated Marines. Not too long after he was dishonorably discharged for a wide range of reasons, some of which are still unknown to this day. (http://www.lawsch.uga.edu/academics/profiles) Oswald lived through many years of let downs, disappointments and even some losses. Although there were no records of him disliking the president, he still held anger within his body and soul that would one day be released in who knew what ways. With that being said, many have been lead to believe Oswald's anger later came out when he assassinated the president in a rage of anger.
After the assassination took place, more and more information about Oswald being the murderer of the president and aspects that caused people to think he was at fault was released to the public. This led the people of the country to believe that he indeed committed the crime of our leader. He was a target to many and pin pointed as the suspect due to the surrounding "evidence". A piece of evidence that was used against Oswald was by witnesses on the street in which it took place. As Admine Huliq states in his article We Just Debunked JFK Conspiracy, many that saw the assassination and the surrounding incidents reported that when the president arrived in his limousine on November 22, 1963, Oswald was seen at coincidental times that correlated to the tragedy that took place that day. Many stated that he was seen right before the shooting, around 11:55am in the Texas School Book Depository, a store right in the view of where the president was being escorted. The shooting then occurred at 12: 30 pm and Oswald happened to disappear and was not seen during that time period. However, he managed to find his way back into the same store only minutes after the shooting, at approximately 12:31pm. (http://www.huliq.com/1/72975/discovery-channel-we just-debunked-jfk-conspiracy-theory) This in itself gave much reason for officials to believe he was responsible for the death of the president. Officials, along with citizens of the nation, found the time of his presence very coincidental. Many found it astounding and suspicious that Oswald was no where to be found during the time the bullets struck Kennedy, leaving him with a severe damage to the head and shoulder and later killing him.
Oswald remained a suspect to the case as to who killed the president. Although others were on the list, he managed to keep the officials thinking he was responsible for the death of the president just by his reactions, the coincidence in his appearances and his changes in stories. Government officials were lead to believe that Oswald was a single shooter that, alone, fired two shots at the limousine in which the president sat and managed to injure both him and Governor Connally, who was also in the vehicle. Connally was struck by a single bullet, one that also struck Kennedy in the shoulder, which managed to reach his back, chest, thigh and wrist causing serious wounds to all those areas. (http://www.huliq.com/1/72975/discovery-channel-we just-debunked-jfk-conspiracy-theory) This was later named the "magic bullet theory" due to the idea that it is very unlikely to occur in such a manner if even possible at all. (See figure 1) Although Oswald was a suspected murder in this case, he was not proven to have done it and evidence did not support any judgments against him other than suspicion, the officials had no legitimate right to accuse him, so all they could do was watch his every move discretely.
Dallas police officer Tippet found some sort of suspicion in Lee Harvey Oswald as well and found it to be his responsibility or obligation to follow him home and investigate. This might have not been a good idea on his part, but it lead to some possible trails and truths about the man suspected of killing JFK. When Oswald realized he was being followed he pulled out a gun and threatened Officer Tippet. The officer did not back off and continued hounding Oswald about the JFK incident. Oswald might have gotten nervous or maybe just realized he was caught because he was pushed to the end and pulled the trigger on the officer. (Renick, 49) This was one of the reasons that led individuals to believe he was a prime suspect leading to the murder of the President of the United States. Why else would he have become so defensive if he did not do anything? Only an individual who knew they did wrong and realized they were in deep would react to such an extreme. Or maybe it was because he knew something and did not want to share. Although Oswald was not the only suspect that came to mind when the assassination of the president was at hand, he surely set himself up in allowing the people to form opinions about him and his doings just by his actions taken when confronted and when the pressure was on.
A second theory that many have formed when studying the assassination of JFK is that Oswald may have been a piece to the puzzle, but certainly did not act alone. Many have been lead to believe there was at least one other shooter while others think there could have been three (Renick, 49). Supposed evidence and many witnesses have stated enough details for individuals to believe that there was more than one man who was responsible for the assassination of the president of the United States. Conspiracy theories have been formed for many years as to who killed the president, but one of the least common stories is about more than one shooter being the murderers of J. F. Kennedy.
As stated previously, may think more than one man was responsible for the JFK assassination. One of the most common heard reasoning as to why people think this is so is because of issues pertaining to the gun and its abilities. Normally a rifle, similar to the one used by JFK's assassin, was not a weapon that fires one bullet right after the other in a quick manner (Renick, 47). With the type of rifle supposedly used, there is no way two bullets could have been fired out of the same gun within the seconds they were released. With that being said, it is unreasonable to think such a thing could happen considering that JFK was shot with two bullets, one right after the other by the same gun. Oddly enough one of the bullets managed to strike Connally in numerous places on his body. An interesting fact of how the bullet moved was the distance in which it traveled before hitting either individual. All throughout history, stories have been that Oswald shot two bullets from the sixth floor of a building that was a considerable distance from the target. However, when officials tried to replicate the same action at the same distance, there was no one that could accomplish it. High ranked officials stated that this was an impossible action, even if performed by a trained individual. It is stated that there was no physical way that two bullets, that quick after the other, were shot by one man and/or a single gun. (Renick, 48) Considering there were two bullets fired and both managed to hit him in a matter of seconds, there is reason to believe more than one weapon was used which meant more than one individual was assisting in the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
Many witnesses that were near the site of the killing were interviewed shortly after the assassination took place. As Thomas Turner stated in his article The JFK Assassination Debates, Several witnesses claim to have seen not one, but numerous figures in different windows of the book depository, a store in which Oswald was last seen in prior to the assassination and directly after (Turner, 649). He was said to have been one of the figures seen in the windows. A photographer known for his photographs of popular, historical events managed to capture a picture of one individual kneeling by an open window on the sixth floor and happened to spot another standing near a window that was closed. The unknown figure was near the second individual that positioned himself by the open window. Many were lead to believe that Oswald was one of the individuals and along with him was his supposed apprentice. (Turner, 650) Although the was no proof of them firing the shots they were still suspected due to the fact that they were in a location that was a field of ranging suspicions and questions. It appeared to be almost obvious that Oswald was at fault considering he was last seen in the same store right before it happened, disappeared and was seen again right after, but the other figures in the image remained a mystery.
As suspicion floated through the nation and evidence was being hunted down, another witness came forth and explained how he/she saw a third figure in another window on the same floor as the other individuals. In this claim, it was stated that there were not one, but three possible shooters. The person being interviewed claimed that there was one figure kneeling by the window, one standing by a closed window and another hiding behind a post on the same floor. As seen in the movie JFK directed by Oliver Stone, this later became known as the "triangle of people". The first two figures matched the other stories, but now a new individual was said to have played a role or at least been present. (Turner, 650) As more people were asked what they saw, many explained that they saw numerous people in the windows, yet they could not recall how many. Although the number of people included in the role of killing the president was not fully determined, witnesses and evidence have led many to believe Oswald was part of this, but he did not act alone.
Another and final theory that has been developed over time dealing with the assassination of JFK is the idea that the nation's CIA was involved in the killing of the leader of the states. As discussed in Jacob Hornberger's article JFK, the CIA and Conspiracies, Kennedy was said to have been a threat to the national security and labeled this by his own government. Most of the individuals that were involved with the government did not like the decisions made by Kennedy and stated that they thought he should be eliminated from office due to his poor choices. The interesting idea behind this was the choices he made were favored by the majority of the citizens of the United States and the only real individuals that had an issue were those people of the government. Although Kennedy made a less than perfect reputation for the CIA due to his actions prior to his assassination, he was doing what was fair, and fair in that case was listening to your leader and compromising, not going forth with something after it was denied. (http://www.fff.org/freedom/0992a.asp) Kennedy was loved and looked up to in the eyes of the nation because of how he changed the ways of life and brought ideas into the nation that were well over due. However, many people disliked him as well, including some of those in the government scene. With the amount of resentment towards Kennedy and the strong feelings of him being eliminated from office, there is reasonable evidence to prove Kennedy could have quite possibly been murdered by his own people, the CIA.
Kennedy was involved in many historical events throughout his presidency and acknowledged for each of them. As stated by Joan Mellen in her article November 22, 1963: You Are There, one of his biggest involvements was in dealing with the Bay of Pigs incident against Cuban affairs (Mellen 12). The Bay of Pigs plan was an attempted invasion into Cuba to overthrow the government and the leader of the country, Fidel Castro. The plan of attack had been brought up and mentioned amongst the government for several years and was finally put into play and planned when JFK took office. As Vincent Bugliosi stated in his article JFK Conspiracy Theories, Kennedy approved the plan and the CIA moved forth with it and set it all up. Although the plan seemed to be going well and everything was falling into place, the communication between the president and the overall government was off somewhere and things started downward spiraling and disaster struck, causing the president to be looked down on by officials.
Somewhere along the lines, the president lost the idea that he was expected to send air support when given the signal to help on the invasion. The signal was given and there was not a single sign of air support to be seen. (http://www.fff.org/freedom/0992a.asp) The military individuals that were in Cuba fighting were left to fend for themselves with no back up to help. The effects of the poor planning were that 1,197 invaders were captured, many were killed and the CIA was humiliated in front of an entire nation of people. (http://www.fff.org/freedom/0992a.asp) This in itself gave President Kennedy a bad name with the people of the military and other government officials due to his lack of communication. People began to think he did this on purpose and others felt it was only accidental. Although individuals had different opinions as to why that happened, they all felt he was a threat to the nation and needed to be removed.
Many occurrences that led the nation to believe the government, or the CIA more specifically, took place even after the assassination of President Kennedy. Some of the ideas behind this conclusion were the missing reports that were taken on JFK's autopsy and hospital charts and the murdering of many doctors and other officials that were killed shortly after all results were in. Like in any other death, an autopsy is performed to get all the facts on paper as to how and why the individual died. As a routine procedure, Kennedy had one done on his body to determine the actual cause of his death and any details that pertained to the case. As Paul Conkin reports in his article Lone Gunman Versus Conspiracy, that all details were reported to officials and shortly after, they managed to disappear. Officials and the doctors treating JFK were the only ones who had access to this type of document and for it to have gone missing is a red flag connecting the CIA. As if losing an important document was not bad enough, people began to be murdered and went missing. As the days passed, more and more reports of different doctors and nurses who knew more about JFK than anyone else came up dead if not missing. (Conkin, 515) It appeared that the "truth" of his assassination was trying to be kept secret. As it appeared to many, the government was trying to keep this in only their hands and in order to do this, people with any knowledge needed to be eliminated. If no one was there to talk about the details, it would not get out. This led many to come to the conclusion that the CIA or some sort of government officials were involved in murdering the leader of the United States and in an attempt to cover it up, slowing seemed to uncover the truth. Although there is no proof that the CIA was officially involved in the attack, there is much evidence that had led people of the nation to see the connections between the assassination and the surrounding ideas.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy, the thirty-fifth president of the United States, was a man who changed the nation and put equality into the picture of life, or at least made attempts to do so. Like any other president, Kennedy made wise choices throughout his presidency while also making some mistakes. His life and presidency both ended on that cold day in November in the year 1963 while making an appearance in Dallas, Texas. Although the truth may never be known as to who killed Kennedy, there will always be theories and conspiracies that float amongst the people of the nation and questions being formed. Conspiracy theories will continue to be formed, but the truth of who killed Kennedy may never be recovered.
Figure 1
