Saving Lives 4
Allison Wiltfong
ENG105 Ms. Belknap
Argument Paper
4/20/2009
Saving Lives with Stem Cells
"Stem cell research has the potential to provide better treatments and cures for many currently incurable medical conditions." They have been labeled as the unique master cell of the body. There is no other type of cell in the body that can perform in the way that a stem cell can. Because stem cells can differentiate into almost any kind of cell they offer much hope for medical advancement.
Stem cells are defined as a "generic" cell that can make exact copies of itself indefinitely and have the ability to produce specialized cells for various tissues in the body including the heart, liver and brain. Researchers have found ways to manipulate these cells, when transplanted in the body, into the exact cell type needed. This is shown in figure 1 below. The stem cells that researchers have are able to stay maintained forever so that they can be used at anytime, without "going bad". In order to obtain stem cells, the cells and their source must be alive. Therefore, these special cells come from three different sources including adult cells, umbilical cells, and embryonic cells.
Figure 1- Showing what a stem cell can do.
Adult Stem Cells were first discovered back in the 1950's. Researchers discovered that the bone marrow contained two types of cells. One of the stem cells is called the hematopoietic cell. It is the cell that forms every type of blood cell in the body. The second stem cell that was found in bone marrow is the stromal cell. They are less present in the bone marrow and can generate bone, fat, and cartilage cells.
Scientists refer to these adult stem cells as somatic stem cells, somatic meaning of the body. Adult cells are found in most adult tissue such as bone marrow, usually in small numbers. They are also found in the peripheral system; however, they are rich when retrieved from bone marrow. The peripheral system is part of the central nervous system. Its duty is to connect the central nervous system to the body's limbs and organs. The downside is that the procedure necessary to retrieve the cells is extremely painful and can result in the destruction of some bone marrow. However, when adult stem cells are successfully removed from the body, they have potential to save a life. Peripheral cells are much less destructive to the bone, but they take more time to extract. Other places in the body that adult stem cells are found include the brain, blood cells, skeletal muscle, skin, teeth, heart, gut, and liver. The amount of adult tissue that contains stem cells is plentiful and is always an exact match in DNA so the body's immune system will not reject them. Recent studies have shown that not only can cells be retrieved from bone marrow, but there is potential to obtain them from the brain and heart. Once they are successfully controlled they can become the basic transplantation in cell therapy.
Another type of stem cell is the type retrieved from the umbilical cord. Traditionally the umbilical cord has been thrown out after a baby is born due to lack of purpose. It has been recently discovered that the blood in the umbilical cord is rich with stem cells and has proven to be very useful in medical conditions. These stem cells are less susceptible to failure than adult stem cells because they have not yet developed the factors of a stem cell that the body's immune system will reject. These cells can also offer an exact match where a family has planned ahead. Cord stem cells are extracted during pregnancy and are stored in cryogenic cell banks as a type of assurance policy for future use on behalf of the newborn. If another child of the family develops a health condition these cord cells may save his/her life. Cord cells can also be used by the mother, father or other family members. The less immediate the family member increases the likelihood that this cell will be rejected by their immune system. However, scientists have developed ways to decrease the risk and make the transferability much higher, even if there is no DNA match.
Embryonic stem cells are by far the most controversial type of cell used. The best way to describe how embryonic cells are formed is to describe the process in which it happens; it is also shown in figure 2 below. Human development begins when a sperm fertilizes an egg and creates a single cell that has potential to form an entire organism. The fertilized egg is known as totipotent zygote, which means it has total potential. As soon as the egg is fertilized, the cells begin to divide. After four to five days of cell division cycles the totipotent cells begin to specialize and they form a hollow sphere of cells, which is called the blastocyst. There is an outer layer of cells as well as an inner cluster of cells, which make up the blastocyst. The inner cells have potential to form tissue that is found in all parts of the human body. This fact is why embryonic stem cells have the highest potential for use to regenerate or repair diseased tissue and organs in people. When the stem cells are removed, it destroys the embryo. In each blastocyst a large number of the 100 cells it contains are stem cells. These cells can be removed and kept alive indefinitely, and during this period the stem cells will double every two to three days. The set of cells that come from this blastocyst or embryo are referred to as a stem cell line because they were all fertilized from the same place.
Figure 2- The process of embryonic stem cells being developed.
When researchers obtain these cells from one of the three sources they grow them in a lab, where they can be kept forever. Manipulating the cells into the specific type needed for the cell therapy may start with changing the material in which the stem cell is grown. Manipulation of the cells can also be performed by injecting special genes into the cells. When the cells have been changed into what they are intended to be, they are implanted into the person. An example of someone who would need a transplant is someone who has been diagnosed with heart disease. Cell therapy can be used to inject cells into the heart muscle, which will contribute to repairing defective heart muscle.
Stem cell therapy, sometimes called regenerative medicine, is defined as the actual replacement of diseased, injured, or dysfunctional cells with adult, umbilical, or embryonic stem cells. It is the same concept as an organ transplant, but the process uses cells instead of organs. Cell therapy can be and has been known to cure several medical conditions. These health conditions include Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, diabetes, spinal cord injury, heart disease, strokes, arthritis, cancer, and even burns. The most common type of cell therapy treatment is bone marrow transplants, which have been successful for the past 30 years. In November 2004, a woman in Korea successfully healed from her spinal cord injury. The stem cells came from a family member's umbilical cord that was saved from birth. The woman can now walk without assistance. Before the surgery, she had been unable to stand for 19 years.
A four-year-old twin in New Zealand was born with brain damage. Her name was Maia Friedlander and she struggled to talk, walk properly, or even chew her food without choking. In February Maia received an infusion of her twin sister's umbilical cord stem cells. She is not a normal child, her parents say, "She's like a different child-talking, hugging us, playing . . . She's had a second chance at life and we can now have the family life we'd always dreamed of" (Hill, 2008).
Walter Bast is a stroke victim. Bast lost complete control of most of the right side of his body as well as his ability to speak. After a transplantation of adult stem cells into Bast's brain, he amazingly regained his speech and use of right arm (Macrae, 2008).
Pinetop, Arizona is home to Chloe Levine, a nine month old girl. Her parents noticed that she was unable to grip with her right hand, raise either hand above her head, or crawl. Chloe was diagnosed with Cerebral Palsy. Luckily, her parents had saved Chloe's umbilical cord. With ONE simple injection of her OWN stem cells, Chloe's disease was decreased in severity by 50%. She is now able to walk, run, and use her right hand (Cord Blood..2008).
Lucie Moison has Pulmonary Hypertension, a progressive lung disease. Before she decided to get treated with her own adult stem cells, she had been waiting on the lung transplant list for thirteen years. According to her doctors the procedure went "extremely well". Lucie now can go about her daily life, doing everyday activities, with no shortness of breath (Arnold, 2008).
Nine-month-old Granton Bayless has a very rare disease called severe combined immunodeficiency. This disease restricts his body from producing the cells that fight of disease, which are known as T cells. In March, Granton was admitted to the hospital with severe cases of pneumonia and a respiratory virus which developed holes in his lungs. Granton's position was so severe doctors had to temporarily paralyze him in order for him not to get worse. Granton's family decided to go through with umbilical cord stem cell therapy. He is now 86% better and is running and playing with everything in sight (Skodack, 2008).
Adult stem cells have helped to accelerate the healing of severe leg fractures for five men and four women in Australia. They suffered from these fractures after devastating car accidents, some still had no ability to walk after 41 months post accident. One man in particular who was still using crutches one year after his accident regained complete use of his leg only ONE day after his procedure. He can now walk and run with no pain. The other members of this group all recovered with fully re-grown bones due to the success of the stem cells. "All these patients have avoided the need for having a second operation to get bone from somewhere else in the body. Instead the bone is grown outside the body in a lab," Dr. de Steiger said (White, 2008).
Doctors at Imperial College in London have published and proven results showing improvement in patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis. Nine patients had adult stem cells from their blood collected, the numbers were boosted in the lab, and then the cells were injected into their livers. Positive results were seen within one week in all nine patients (Prentice, 2008).
As of today, cell therapy in treating cancer has only been tested on animals, because the possibility has not been around for long. With traditional techniques, brain cancer is almost impossible to treat because it spreads so rapidly. Recently tested was the injection of human neural stem cells. Within only a few days, the cells had migrated to the spot of the tumor and reduced its mass by over 81%. The stem cells were neither rejected nor turned tumorigenic.
Most of the controversy comes from the ethical issue of whether or not it is okay to use an embryo's stem cells. The opposition says that the point of conception is the beginning of the period in which human life should be valued. When stem cells are extracted from the embryo, it is destroyed, in other words human life is destroyed. Therefore, it is argued that embryo stem cells should not be used at all. Some say that life starts at conception, while researchers argue that the tiny embryo, or blastocyst, has no human features when it will be destroyed. However, these embryos are leftovers from fertile clinics and procedures where they were not and likely will not be used. Another extremely important way in which these embryonic stem cells can help save lives is by using them to test the safety of new drugs. Before using new drugs on people, researchers can use stem cells to test its safety and effectiveness. For example, scientists can manipulate stem cells to be nerve cells and then test a drug used to treat nerve disease. This test will show how the nerve cell will react, and whether it was affected positively or negatively. There is no harm that can come from this. What is the harm in using it for potentially saving lives, rather than just getting rid of it?
Stem cells can be used in order to save millions of lives. Who would not want to use everything in their power in order to save a loved one? They have been named the unique master cell of the body. Because stem cells can differentiate into almost any kind of cell. They offer much hope for medical advancement. Research on stem cells must remain legal, so that our society can make medical advancements.
