Why Women Should Be Paid More in Sports
Every since women started to compete in sports in 1840 they have been mistreated by many people. Since the 1800's women have been raised by their mother to cook and clean for their husband's. Women weren't supposed to be famous for playing any type of sports that was the job of the men to play sports. Well now since the 1840's women sport have now grown largely in many countries especially the United States.
Today in sports many women are starting to become professional sports players in many sports, such sports as women basketball, tennis, volleyball and etc. Even though women are signing professional contracts they still aren't making enough money to support themselves and their families. In the Wimbledon tennis tournament last year Rodger Federer had made $655,000 dollars and the women winner of the tournament had only received $625,000 dollars. Even the men who were eliminated in the first round of the tournament had received more money than women. In the 2008 Wimbledon tournament Venus William wasn't paid all the money she was suppose to be paid all the money she was suppose to earn off her tournament win.
In professional sports women deserve to be paid the same as men because they put in a lot of hard work and effort. Women have suffered a lot and sports they receive the same injuries as men and they go out and play the same sport as men but still don't reap the benefit of getting paid more. In the WNBA women only make up to $50,000 thousand a year and they get a bonus if they win game or make it to the playoff. In the NBA men make millions and they receive bigger bonuses if the win games and make it to playoff or win the championship. Many sports writer say women sports aren't entertaining because they don't bring a lot of intensity to their sports. The average pay salary of a WNBA team is only $803,000 and for basketball team that is very little compared to a NBA team. The reason women who don't get paid a lot in the WNBA compared to male athletes in the NBA is because they don't bring in a lot of revenue.
Some sports fans who watch women sports believe that women sports are just as interesting as men sports. In college basketball this year many fans had zoomed in to watch the Women March Madness. When people had gone out to sports bars they had enjoyed watching women basketball they all were cheering on the teams who had made it to the national Championship. Women athletes are the same as men they can do the same thing as men in sports. Just because men sports are highly advertised and they make more money doesn't mean that women have to struggle to survive off of $50,000 dollars a year.
One of the most popular sports events is the U.S. Olympic. The Olympics is a sport event where men and women from different countries go to one place to compete for gold medals for their countries. Well in the 2008 Olympics men and women from all over the world had competed in many sports but when it was all over men still were paid more than women even though women had won just as many medals and they competed as hard as men. It seems women will never be equal as men in sports because the fans don't show women sport as much interest as men.
Fans who watch sports believe that women sports don't get a lot of media attention or sell a lot of tickets in their sport is because women don't have a lot of super stars. In such sports as football, basketball, baseball and soccer there are so many male athletes who are famous because of the sport they play. But when you look at women sports you might only recognize certain athletes in some sports. The only name fans notice when you hear about women sports is Lisa Leslie a WNBA basketball player and Venus and Serena William professional tennis players. According to web.ebscohost.com, "Since the passage of Title IX in 1972, participation in women's sports has grown dramatically But despite the growing level of participation by female athletes at all competition levels and documented fan interest in women's athletics, coverage of women's sports remains inferior to that given mate sports across all media. Tuggle's (1997) study showed that two national highlights programs (CNN's Sports Tonight and ESPN's Sports Center) devoted only 5% of their airtime to women's athletics." (Mass Communication & Society.) Coverage of women's sports contributes highly to the revenue of that sports income. For example programs such as Duke University have a height attendance of fans which leads to national exposure, the more exposure, the more money companies are willing to pay to advertise and support that program. If more media attention was focused on women sports women would be getting paid the same amount of money as men.
When you're watching a Nike commercial you mostly see male athletes and you rarely see female athletes on the commercial. Endorsement deals are a big way that athletes get paid and when you watch television, you only see male superstar who are on the front pages of this fortune 500 companies. The only reason male professional athletes make so much money is that they are highly recruited in the sports they play and they have so many sports writers and draft experts making them money by promoting them to professional teams. Promotion leads to major benefits financially, the national crowd only wants to hear about those individuals or organizations that are talked about or promoted. This is a sad truth about the human psyche, but it is how the world works. When fans watch ESPN they never see women talked about or you never even see a professional draft for women. Women sports are underrated because nobody ever talks about them, let alone ever gives the organization or event a chance to shine in the national spot light.
The sport industry is so biased against women because they don't ever have the big name superstars or they aren't able to be highly recruited out of college. When it comes to boxing there are only one woman athlete sports fans know about and that is Laila Ali. Laila Ali is mostly known because of her father Muhammad Ali was a great boxer in the late 60's he knocked out many fighters. The women boxers are underpaid compared to men. In boxing, superstar boxers are paid millions for the fight they have and in women boxing they don't nearly make as much. Boxing is a sport women are hardly known for, even though they train as hard as men they still don't get the benefits that male superstars receive.
It's not fair to women that they go out every day and train and compete in the sports they play but they don't get paid as much as men. These hardworking women could have just stayed in college and got their degrees and they still would be making the same amount as they get paid in sports or even more. Lisa Leslie had gone to a highly known university and with the degree she got she could making twice as much money as she does in the WNBA but she chose to keep playing the sport of basketball because that is her passion. The only benefits these women superstars are getting out of being these professionals in the sport they love instead of making the increased wages with their degrees is out of pride. For this I respect the sacrifices these incredible women are making to give a chance for the future to change this unfair hand they were given.
Many women athletes don't join professional sports to get paid they do it because they love the sport they play. Just as men they don't join professional sports just to get paid they have love for the game. But if women are going to be treated unfairly because they might now be as good as men than that is just wrong because critics are judging them on how each individual play and not as a team sports. In recent years sports as tennis have been dominated by women and they still don't get enough credit for what they have done. There are many women who are sports players that give up sports because the pay wages are just too low.
Another sport that is well known for women is track and field. There are many women who run track who is very successful. Marion Jones is a famous track runner she is known for during the 100 meter sprints and hurdles. Track and Field is a good sport for women to earn money because they don't sign contracts they just join events and they get paid if they win or lose. The average pay rate for women track runner is around $50,000 or more a years and they still make more money off the events and medals they win. Women athletes who participate in sports in the United States are also underpaid because the economy is doing real badly. Many women sports player are going over to the United Kingdom to play sports because they are paying sports player more to come join their teams. The women sports player who aren't get drafted or signed by different sports agency are going to other countries so they can make more money so they can help take care of their families.
There are so many reasons why women should be paid more in sports but it don't matter what we think about the situation. Something needs to be done about this situation or in the next couple of years it won't be any women playing professional sports. In order for women to get paid more they need to sale themselves to their fans they need more exposure to the sports watchers out there in the world. People should respect those women athletes go out every day and work as hard just as men. If there wasn't women athletes such sports and sports event will suffer because women bring the competitive edge in everything they do.
Women who participate in professional sports will only make more money if they sale tickets and if they sale a lot of their team merchandise. In order for woman teams to sale more tickets are they have to promote their team and promote the sports they play. So for this reason it makes the women look less than men when it comes into sports. It seems like they have to lower their self-esteem in order to make the same salary as men. Even in college or the pro's women coaches are being less paid than male coaches. Pat Summitt is a women basketball coach for the University of Tennessee she is a very successful coach. In last 11 years Ms. Summitt have won many SEC titles and even made it to the final four in women basketball over 5 years
Angelini, James R. "Television Sports and Athlete Sex: Looking at the Differences in Watching Male and Female Athletes." Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media 52. 1 (2008): 16-32.
Billings, Andrew C., Kelby K. Halone, and Bryan E. Denham. ""Man, that was a Pretty Shot": An Analysis of Gendered Broadcast Commentary Surrounding the 2000 Men's and Women's NCAA Final Four Basketball Championships." Mass Communication & Society 5. 3 (2002): 295-315.
Bissell, Kimberly L. "Sports Model/Sports Mind: The Relationship between Entertainment and Sports Media Exposure, Sports Participation, and Body Image Distortion in Division 1 Female Athletes." Mass Communication & Society 7. 4 (2004): 453-72.
Blake, Nick. "Inquiry Asks Why Women are Paid Less than Men." Australian Nursing Journal 16. 4 (2008): 21-.
Dambrun, Michael, Sandra Duarte, and Serge Guimond. "Why are Men More Likely to Support Group-Based Dominance than Women? the Mediating Role of Gender Identification." British Journal of Social Psychology 43. 2 (2004): 287-97.
Hardin, Marie, and Erin Whiteside. "Fewer Women, Minorities Work in Sports Departments." Newspaper Research Journal 27. 2 (2006): 38-51.
Murphy, Angela J. "Life Stories of Black Male and Female Professionals: An Inquiry into the Salience of Race and Sports." Journal of Men's Studies 13. 3 (2005): 313-25.
Simpson, Joe Leigh, et al. "Gender Verification in the Olympics." JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association 284. 12 (2000): 1568.
