Ted Wilmarth
4/20/09
H. Richards
English 105
Dude, Where's my essence?
In today's society, the media seems to be everywhere and anywhere one goes. The media tends to get a hold on popular culture and uses those cultural topics to its advantage. One of these popular culture phenomenons is skateboarding. Since the arrival of its popularity in the 1960's, skateboarding has been about the joy of cruising the streets of wherever one is and having a good times with friends. Turn the clock forward to the present day and skateboarding has changed drastically. The media has definitely taken a toll on skateboarding and the way we view it now. If one studied the skateboarding culture in the modern age, they would notice that brand imaging is the heartbeat of the skateboarding industry. The issue with this new found image is that it destroys the beauty of skateboarding as an art-form. What the skateboarding companies are doing now is bowing down to corporations, which they once despised, and letting these large corporation turn these once-modest skateboarding companies into corporate monsters, seeming to lose sight on what really is important about skateboarding and are becoming more concerned on product imaging. While this issue may be terrifying to a true "skater", the upside to all of this is that skateboarding is getting recognition. For decades, skateboarders were considered outcasts by the general public. Now, they are respected for their creativity and their skill. Also, the skateboarding companies are gaining profits, which is excellent for the people who run these skateboarding companies.
Skateboarding, like life itself, has a mixed group of people. Skateboarding allows those groups to socialize and skate with one another. "The styles of expression varied greatly, and the skaters classified each by association with a type of music or style of skating. Some of these included 'hippies', 'punks', 'skinheads',' frat boys', 'metalers' (i.e., those who listened to heavy metal music), 'rappers', and 'old timers' (e.g., those who did slalom skating as opposed to 'trick' skating)" (Yiannakis 49). These groups of skaters can come together and share their love of skateboarding. As a skater myself, I truly do believe this concept because many of my good friends have been made through skateboarding. If one begins to skateboard, they can take on their own identity. "Members of the subculture whom I observed used the materials created by the skateboarding industry, but they did so in a manner that did not fully support the industry's goal of mainstreaming ('Little Leaguing') skateboarding. Resistance to bureaucratization was also demonstrated in the structure and values of the subculture" (Yiannakis 50). This quote states that if one can stay original and true to themselves, they can gain respect by their peers. I agree with this statement because when I purchase a product, I just want to skate it and I do not think much of the brand. People can easily confuse the competitive nature of skateboarding with professional sports. Skateboarding competitions are not made for people to see who is better, It is another chance to associate with other skateboarders. "Most of those attending the contest were not actually competing but rather participating in the peripheral activities of watching, fraternizing, and skating apart from the contest. These skaters used the contest to meet new people, learn new tricks, and skate on new and challenging courses which they rushed to during the warm-up periods. In addition, many of the contestants were skaters who closely associated with the grassroots form of skateboarding but who defined and used the contest as an opportunity to meet personal needs as opposed to fully adopting the values of the CSA" (Yiannakis 51). Contests are usually based on an ego one may have, but skateboarding manipulates the contest in a respectable manner. When skaters interact with each other, they have a strong tendency to hold the peace. "My 2 years of observing skaters interactions confirm these statements. Skaters were very supportive of each other. It was common to see skaters who on their first meeting encouraged each other, gave tips, and laughed at their own mistakes" (Yiannakis 53). Skaters are very supportive of each other because of their true passion for skateboarding and the willingness to share their knowledge with other people. It is quite simple to see that skateboarding is segregated from domesticated sports. "The popular practice of skateboarding does not use rules, referees, coaches, or organized contests" (Yiannakis 54). To further this statement, a female skater by the name of Pamela explains how skateboarding differs from soccer. "Soccer is a lot of pressure.you have be as good if not better than everybody else, you have to be, otherwise you don't get to play at all. Skating you can't do that. You just have to push yourself harder and harder. Swimming is just sort of there, you get timed, now for me you go against the clock. Now when you skate you don't go against anything, you just skate. That's what it is" (Yiannakis 54). This quote is a good example of the separation of skateboarding and a domestic sport because of all the rules and the details that hold back the fun of sports. Not only is skateboarding an active hobby, it is also considered an art form. A skater by the name of Doug relates skateboarding and art by saying "A lot of them [skaters] are really involved with artistic endeavors, are very artistic. You can see the parallel; it's kind of a freedom of expression that skating is. How do you express yourself by playing football, playing basketball? When you're skating it's, basically skating reflects your mood at the time and how you're skating, what you are doing, you know, it's definitely, you know, a way to express yourself" (Yiannakis 55). I agree with this quote because I can relate to not being able to be myself when I played a sport like hockey or baseball, which leads me to try skateboarding, in turn finding one of my true passions. By keeping the creative and individual spirit of skateboarding alive, finding social satisfaction and earning respect from others (i.e. fellow skaters), is inevitable.
Even though there are vast benefits to skateboarding, there are also downsides. Anyone who is familiar with skateboarding can tie in the likeliness of injuries happening. "In the south-west the producer of 'Westward Report' found 100 recorded skateboard injuries during October, almost entirely among the 5-15 age group- the surfers who take up skateboarding in the winter are more expert and wear more protective clothing than the youngsters" (Jefferiss 1349). The same source also emphasizes on the fact that "For all sports injuries our incidence of fractures is 14.8", but for skateboarding injuries it is 22.6"" (Wilson 1349). Danger is undeniable when riding a skateboard without caution. A second example of the downside of skateboarding is the prominent disapproval of government officials. Love Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is a highly recognized urban skateboarding spot and believed that plenty of skateboarding history happened there. Despite the history made there, government officials deny the importance of Love Park and have taken on the initiative of making sure skateboarding is discouraged there. "Even so, Mayor John Street's administration had the plaza redesigned at public expense in order to deter skateboarders" (Howell 2). One would consider this unfair in two respects. One is that the administration is redesigning the park, which ruins the preservation aspect of the park and the other respect is that the administration is using taxpayer money to abash skateboarders skateboarding there, who have the right to do so. With all these negative aspects in skateboarding, one could be scared of skateboarding to begin with, but one must also be very cautious when skateboarding at all times.
In the world of skateboarding, corporate America and the media are an unwelcomed mix. Corporations across the globe are constantly attempting to get a hold on the skateboarding culture. Sadly, the corporations do not use skateboarding in a considerate fashion. Instead, the primary focus of corporations involved in skateboarding is simply to make profit and nothing more. "Our purchase of CCS was a significant step in capitalizing on this opportunity. Our fourth quarter profit from CCS was in line with our expectations.CCS has the opportunity to generate double digit operating profit margins during 2009, in line with those of Footlocker.com" (Chapman). This quote was said by Matthew Serra, CEO of Foot Locker. CCS is a worldwide supplier of skateboarding products accessible by catalog or via internet. CCS has earned respect from the skateboarders who purchase products from them because of their care of customers and reasonable prices. It is upsetting to see that such a company has fallen victim to corporate America. The silver lining of this situation is that products from CCS are much more accessible to skaters if ordering products through the catalog or the internet is not an option. In a professional business mindset, small skateboarding companies are not the wisest investments. "There are plenty of skater-owned skate companies that regularly make decisions that can only be thought of as foolish from a business perspective, decisions that are seriously irrational, deeply inefficient. To hell with efficiency and rationality. Unfortunately, sound business decisions and personal convictions are often incompatible. When there's some conflict between the two, you have to make a choice, and I think it's reasonable to fear that non-skate corporations will go for the rational, efficient business decision, because business is their only interest in skateboarding to start with-they have no personal conviction about skateboarding" (Transworld Skateboarding). While it is true that small skateboarding companies are bound to fall by the wayside, especially in today's economy, It is small skateboarding companies that people do appreciate because of their dedication to skateboarding and their genuine desire to make skateboarding products. If one imagines, small skateboarding companies in the skateboarding industry can be compared to small businesses to the global economy, in the essence that they are the foundation of their market. Purchasing a skateboarding company is one small step for these corporations to do in order to make a profit without taking consideration of the skateboarding aficionado. "This event was of course televised, so corporations were very much in the house. There were numerous banners all over the course promoting every sort of product you could think of. And even though there were banners displayed throughout the contest area, I noticed that there was not a single one for any skateboard company-which got me thinking we were basically out of what should be our element and sort of selling our souls for the deliciously decadent dollar without clearly being conscious of it" (Transworld Skateboarding). To have these corporations being promoted and not having the courtesy to put up a banner of recognition for the skateboarding companies is ridiculous, which would be like putting a Chrysler ad in a Cat Fancy magazine. Skateboarding magazines and contests should be hobby-specific and should not be interfered with by irrelative products or companies.
Being that this event was televised leads skateboarding into the idea that skateboarding lifestyles should be portrayed on television. This idea caught on with people at MTV, which produced two shows called Viva La Bam and Life of Ryan. Viva La Bam is a show that portrays the daily life and antics of skateboarding professional Bam Margera. The show generally displays Margera doing wild stunts and making a ruckus at his local home with his parents and uncle. Occasionally, it will show Margera and his friends skateboarding, but not actually documenting the life as a skateboarder. The show distorts the image of Margera because he is a talented skateboarder and should be recognized as so, not through out of control stunts and unruly behavior. Life of Ryan is another show that mainly focuses on Ryan Sheckler and his life as a professional skateboarder such as showing all the details of his competitions and his life at home with his family and friends. Despite this show being more skateboarding specific, the status that Sheckler has reached is more of a superstar quality than a skateboarder. What these two shows have in common is that their money-making machines not only to the producers who produces them, but to the corporations that they are sponsored by make large amounts of money just because the people on these shows wear their clothes with their logo on it every time the camera is pointed at them. For corporations this is product placement at its finest and propaganda taken to an extreme.
There are many companies outside of the skateboarding world who make an effort to enter the market of skateboarding to give their company an image boost. One of the main companies to do so is Nike. Nike is a worldwide manufacturer of sporting goods of all sorts such as helmets, apparel, gloves, shoes, etc. One of their most recent business ventures was to enter the skateboarding market. To this day, they are very successful, mainly because their Nike SB Dunk shoes, which have been released in a near-endless variety of color combinations and special editions, have become a instant sensation with sneaker aficionados. When Nike first entered into the skateboarding market, the reaction was simple: skaters did not approve. "One day, Nike had decided to sell special shoes for skateboarders. But there was a problem. Not the obvious problem of whether or not skateboarders actually required special shoes but the problem of skater resistance. As Kelly Evans-Pfeifer of the Goodby, Silverstein agency spun the tale, the problem when Nike 'decided to get into the skateboarding market' was that 'skateboarders did not want them there.' Skateboarding, it turned out, was 'an alternative culture' populated with difficult people who 'don't really like this attention they're getting from mainstream companies'" (Heller 203). Nike overcame this hurdle with some respect because of their ability to make shoes. I find that when this quote referred to the skateboarding culture as difficult people made me mad because skateboarders just want things a certain way without asking too much and it seems that when Nike entered the business of selling skateboarding products, they expected to be welcomed, but they were not.
In conclusion, the business world of skateboarding is just as dangerous as the skateboard itself. The corporations that are buying up these skateboarding companies are not giving any consideration of the true skateboarders that are buying their products. In the previous paragraph, the recognition that Nike has gained from the skateboarding world is a small victory at best, being known as a company that sells a poor performing shoe that comes in all colors of the rainbow to satisfy a sneaker freak. But do not be alarmed by this onslaught of negativity. Die-hard skateboarders of all kinds of backgrounds are still keeping the individual spirit alive by making new friends while sharing and laughing about skateboarding. It is typically of today's skateboarders to be caught up in the hype of the skateboarding fashion and lose focus on the skateboarding itself. If one truly found the beauty and the art of skateboarding and embraced it, they would see how great skateboarding is. The skateboarding culture can holds itself without help from the media or giant corporations.
