Drug Testing in High School
In recent years, drug use has sky rocketed in the United States and has now begun to affect students as young as thirteen. In fact, 80% of high school kids and 44% of middle school kids have been exposed to drugs, either by their own choice or as a result of peer pressure. The issue is that youth are being exposed to drugs, putting them at risk of becoming addicted and possibly creating more unemployed high school dropouts. The amount of children being put at risk is increasing at an alarming rate. The students who are beginning to use steroids are causing problems for themselves, as well as the kids they play against. There are physical dangers they are already subjected to that are greatly intensified when steroids have been factored into the equation. In light of this evidence, there have been many drug programs put into place around the United States in local schools. This is becoming a problem because of the cost versus the success rate, the percentage of people being falsely accused, and the ethical problems it presents. The simple fact is there should not be drug testing in high school because it creates more problems than it fixes, making it economically and ethically incorrect.
Several arguments for drug testing include money reasons, such as the fact that the tests "would eventually pay themselves off." (Ringwalt, 1) The overall cost of the tests would in fact be a negative, because the tests do not actually pay themselves off. People who administer the tests assume that those subjected to drug testing will contribute to the economy in the future. However, the simple truth is that kids nowadays want to rebel. Those who are not caught by the test will continue to take drugs. Those that are afraid of being caught by the test will just take the drugs that the test does not check for. These drugs include the newest and most difficult to track, which in most cases will be worse than the current drugs. Therefore, we will be creating a bigger problem that will be more difficult to control.
Another argument often used is that these tests could possibly create more jobs, thus causing people to pour money into the economy. However, the flaw in this argument is that we cannot put our faith in a market that is not proven to be a permanent source of jobs. If we put money into this project, we must first look into how much money we will make if we succeed, versus the amount we would lose if we fail. After researching, it was found that the amount of time to make a profit from this project would take a minimum of about ten years. It is not worth putting these tests into effect because the rewards are not good enough or even guaranteed.
It is said that we cannot put a price on the safety of our youth and that drug testing is needed to make our school safer for students as well as athletes. Although this argument is true, it is greatly oversimplified and uses the emotions to avoid the simple facts. The fact is that the drugs have been in our schools for years. School is a social experience that gives kids the skills to decide whether to say "yes" or "no," but ultimately parents need to teach their kids the difference between right and wrong. Incidentally, most drug addicts come from broken homes, neglectful families and bad childhood experiences, and are not taught the difference between right and wrong. The truth is that it is society's fault that children are getting more and more into drugs.
Schools should not institute drug testing in their athletics and academics because the tests cost too much money. The most basic drug test costs close to one hundred dollars to administer, while the tests that detect more elicit drugs cost forty-five to fifty dollars more per drug. An additional fee of one hundred dollars is added for steroids. The main focus of these drug tests are for athletes because "athletes are the ones being exposed to people that are using steroids and are in physical danger." (Yamaguchi, 1) The most expensive and difficult drugs to detect are steroids, anabolic and metabolic, which cost more to test than all the other drugs put together. In order to ensure the safety of high school athletes, both drug and steroid tests must be taken, which incidentally would cost about "two hundred to three hundred a test." (Wainwright, 1) Administering these tests to high school athletes would cost the state several thousand dollars and would only catch a very small percentage of students. In the long run these tests are not worth the hassle.
The most accurate tests that are one hundred percent correct are hair sample tests, which can detect exactly which chemicals the user has ingested over a longer span of time than urine testing can. Although the hair test is just about bulletproof, it costs about twice as much as the urine tests. This poses a problem because schools cannot pay these huge expenses in this economically disastrous time. "The price is much more expensive because the amount of equipment and sophisticated technology necessary to read these hair sample tests are not every day household items, but they are in fancy labs that cost a lot to run." (Evans, 1)
One argument that comes into question is the accuracy of theses tests. The accuracy of the urine sample tests is about 98%, which means that 2% of the people will be wrongly accused or falsely innocent. These tests cannot be used because if 100,000 students are tested, only 98,000 tests will be correct in identifying people who are innocent and guilty, "leaving the leftover 2% of students with faulty test results, whether they are innocent or not." (Taylor, 1) Although these are great statistics, these tests are still done randomly so the likelihood of the accused being chosen is very slim. There is a big difference in the amount of the guilty versus the innocent. These statistics are greatly changed, and it becomes far more difficult to actually catch those that are guilty.
Another issue with the accuracy of the drug tests is that many of them actually cannot detect every drug. Most times, the student that is guilty is released because the drug testers are testing for the wrong thing. Therefore, the schools have the check for many more types of drugs, which increases the amount of money they must spend to ensure the accuracy that the tests remain constant. Also, the tests are often thrown off by the food its subjects ingest, which include: "Poppy seeds, assorted nuts and energy drinks." (Brendtro, 1) These are all possible causes of false positive tests, which will falsely accuse innocent students. The risk that this presents is far too great for the school to take because a teenager can be told a thousand times what not to eat, but they are going to eat what they choose, thus resulting in many incorrect test.
"Drug testing is absolutely necessary because it help ensure the safety of our students. It is a deterrent from drugs and allows for the students to be in a more productive environment." This is an excellent argument; however, it has already been proven wrong by several schools that were running trial tests to see how the students would react to such a testing program. The results were: "Use variables - marijuana and cocaine. Results showed a distinct decreasing trend in the comparison district and less apparent downward trend in the intervention district. However, the interaction between Year and District was not statistically significant and, thus, the null hypothesis was not rejected and it was concluded that there was no evidence to suggest the change in Illicit Drug Use over the three-year period was different for the two districts." (Barrington, 1) Clearly, the test was not a deterrent and is in fact not improving the safety of the students, but rather using up the school's resources.
School is where a child acquires and develops his or her social skills. They also learn to interact with students in a group effort and learn to become team players. Many of the adults may think that school is becoming the wrong kind of social experience because it is becoming more and more involved in drugs. The simple fact is at the middle school and high school age, kids are still trying to fit in with their groups of friends, leading them to make many bad decisions. However, when it comes to decision-making, they subconsciously fall back on their childhood teachings in order to make an informed decision. Of course, parents do not want to hear this, but these are the facts and without their parents' guidance, the child will rely on what they learn from their friends at school. If the child was not raised properly, there will be problems throughout their lives. There is never an occasion where a person is obligated to take drugs from a friend. In most cases, kids that would not normally accept drugs are afraid of disappointing their parents or suffering the consequences of disobeying. In both situations, there is a strong foundation of parental teaching and care behind the child, leading to an informed decision.
Although drug testing seems good at a glance, it is in fact not a great option for schools. These random drug tests on regular non-extracurricular students that attend these schools are foolish because in some cases, these "students refuse to submit to these tests. When students refuse, they are assumed to be positive tests, which becomes a problem." (Proctor, 1) Every one of the kids who refuse, take the testers to court because they are not allowed to participate in school like every other kid is. This becomes a drain on the school's money because the cases require attorneys and various other legal fees. These cases actually become a drain on the district's funds, which means one single incident causes every school in that district to lose money. This becomes very unfair because one child's case takes away every other student's inalienable right of an equal education. "Equality of education opportunity under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any state on account of race, sex, income or place of residence." (No Child Left Behind Law) This right is violated because if one lives in the same district as a plaintiff, they will be subjected to budget cuts, resulting in loss of classes, faculty and technology. This one case then becomes a much larger problem that could potentially become impossible to solve.
Of course, school safety is a priority and many people need to realize that the safest place for their child should be their home. Sending them to public school is a risk in itself. Most people are willing to take that risk because a child can not fully blossom educationally and socially without being subjected to a school setting where they will interact with all other types of children, regardless of their behavior. They need to interact with the good and the bad kids in order to learn how to deal with different personalities, beliefs and viewpoints. In some cases, an only child school becomes a more effective social experience than being at home, because children need to interact with other children to learn. Parents need to realize that, of course schools are not risk free. If they were, they wouldn't be equipped with emergency cards and different types of waivers that need to be signed on an annual basis. These are to ensure that if something does happen, the child is well cared for. These are supposed to put parents at ease and to ensure them that the schools are prepared for any incident.
Even more so, athletes accept an even greater risk because they often put themselves in harms way when training and/or competing. Thus, athletes need to take annual physicals and are required to fill out waivers that allow for the school to not be responsible for any of the possible injuries that may be inflicted. To drug test for steroids is difficult because of the ever-evolving forms of steroids, which are made specifically to fool drug tests. Also, the amount of money is far too great for a district to pay in order to catch a very small percentage of students that actually do get involved in steroid use. If parents are really concerned with their children being in danger of being hurt and/or involved in steroids, they should remove their child from sports. However, parents should just believe that their children will not get involved in steroids because it is cheating and students athletes will realize that and fall back on the teachings of their youth.
Therefore, the evidence at hand clearly and concisely shows both sides of the argument fairly. It shows both the argument and counter for just about every possible situation, leaving no area untouched. The amount of money that would be lost is substantial and unnecessary for school districts to lose. Also, the cost of these tests is not even validated by the accuracy of the tests themselves. Most importantly, we see that students are in danger every day and this drug situation is not going to be deterred by throwing money so wastefully at it. To say the least, it is clear that drug testing in high school should not become a normal procedure. The fact of the matter comes down to what each individual believes. Should we test athletes for drugs in high school and is it worth your hard-earned money?
Ramirez, 8
Ramirez, 1
Kristopher Ramirez
ENG 105
Professor Beagen
30 April 2009
