"21" What a Wonderful Number
The United States has a very strict law about being 21 or older to purchase and consume alcohol. Europe has a lower drinking age unlike America, and they have very few problems with alcohol unlike, the United States. However in Europe people tend to drink and drive more since they start drinking at a younger age. Problems with drinking occur all over the world but the problem is not lowering the drinking age but actually keeping it at 21. Since drinking is an important issue on college campuses a petition from at least 100 college presidents' decided to give their opinion on the situation and stated, "our experience as college and university presidents convinces us that twenty-one is not working. A culture of dangerous, clandestine 'binge-drinking' -- often conducted off-campus -- has developed"(Roan). The problem with this statement shows that there is a copious amount of binge drinkers and lowering the drinking age will not stop people from abusing alcohol. Parents should teach their children how to drink and the effects of drinking so they can make good decisions. The issue on lowering the drinking age is a very sensitive topic that needs to be reviewed, but minimizing the drinking age would not be beneficial for the United States, because our society has been based on the age 21 as being the legal drinking age, lowering the drinking age would only allow younger adults to abuse alcohol.
The United States has established laws for drinking. For instance, "The National Minimum Drinking age act of 1984 required all states to raise their minimum purchase and public possession of alcohol age to 21" (www.postdam.edu). This act was established to make sure that all states would have the same law, the reason why all of these states had the same law was so every state would be on the same page. The issue with this act was that if any state did not follow the new rules they would be faced with reductions in highway funds. There are several exceptions to this law that people do not know about, for example, "some states allow an exception for consumption when a family member consents and/or is present. States vary widely in terms of which relatives may consent or must be present for this exception to apply and in what circumstances the exception applies" (www.postdam.edu). This quote is stating that teenagers are able to drink with their parents or other relative. The National Minimum Drinking age act has saved thousands of lives within the United States and should remain the same throughout the United States. Alexander Wagner along with several other authors states, "drinking behavior is influenced by many factors in the social and policy environment, such as messages in media programming, advertising, community norms, public laws, policies and practices of public and private institutions, and economic factors" (Wagner). This statement depicts how drinking patterns are encouraged by so many different aspects; so you are able to see why there is an abundance amount of underage drinkers within the United States
Drinking in other countries where the age of drinking is between the ages of 16-18 might have fewer problems with alcohol abuse with young adults than the United States, but in those countries there are humorous amount of alcohol related emergencies. The problem that occurs in the United States is that people between the ages of 16-20 tend to experiment with drinking on their own, for example, "in 2004 during a CNN medical segment reported that a study had found that teen binge drinking was linked to an increased risk for alcoholism. CNN mentioned that 70% of teens binge drink" (www.alcoholnews.org). Other countries do not have this problem because they either have no drinking age or it is at 16 or 18. Examples of countries with no legal drinking age in the following countries: Armenia, China, Fiji, Nigeria, Poland, Portugal, Thailand, and many more (www.postdam.edu). But in most countries the legal drinking age is either 16 or 18, examples of this are Italy, Germany, Greece, France, and so on. But binge drinking is not the main issue in these countries the problem these countries are having is since the drinking age has been lowered teens and young adults have a tolerance for drinking so they drink and drive. Along with drinking and driving one other important issue that concerns Americans is binge drinking amongst underage age drinkers.
Furthermore, binge drinking is thought to be entertaining among college students within the United States. This type of teenage drinking is very dangerous and needs to be taken care of according to Sandra Thomas an author who has done an abundance amount of research on alcohol and its effect on underage drinker's talks about this new epidemic of drinking. According to Thomas, this new type of drinking is called "pre-gaming and this is where college students will meet up before an event or party and drink excessive amount of alcohol before a party so they can be beyond drunk once they arrive at their location" (Thomas). Binge drinking should not be taken lightly and if the United States were to lower the drinking age more young adults would binge drinking since they know they would not get in trouble. A book called "Addictive Behaviors" by several authors states that, "most of the college students who want to lower the drinking age are heavy binge drinkers" (Martinez). Therefore, lowering the drinking age would allow binge drinkers to obtain alcohol anytime they would like and possibly cause alcohol related incident to increase all across the United States. Even when the drinking age was raised to 21 the United States was not great but over time this has helped the United States.
When the drinking age was changed to 21 many problems started to occur among young adults. There were so many alcohol related issues occurring in schools across the United States, so, "the drinking age was changed in 1987 to twenty-one. From 1982 to 1987 there were some major changes in school related issues involving alcohol. Children vomiting after drinking went from 46% to over 50%. Cutting class after drinking went from 9% to 12%. Missing class because of a hangover went from 26% to 28%. Lower grades from drinking went up from 5% to 7%. Children in fights also went up from 12% to 17% "( www.howard-winn.k12.ia.us). From this example you can see problems started to occur when the drinking age was raised. But even though there were problems when the drinking age was raised, "the twenty-one age has been proved to have saved 23,733 lives since 1975. If you lowered the age other major issues could become even bigger problems, such as teen pregnancy, violent crimes, sexual assault. Underage drinking is also a big cost to our communities" (www.howard-winn.k12.ia.us. Overall, the drinking age of 21 is beneficial for the United States and should not be changed.
Alcohol education in the United States is not doing enough to inform young adults about alcohol. From my personal experience throughout high school I only remember talking about alcohol in my freshman year physical education class. We only talked about alcohol for less than three days during our health education class. Other than that I was not informed about alcohol in high school. If it were not for my parents who talked about alcohol with me and actually let me drink with them and learn then, I would not know anything about alcohol. The only other place where people are educated about alcohol is in a DUI (driving under the influence) class. I truly believe being exposed to alcohol at a young age helps to understand alcohol and the effects of drinking. Alcohol education is important but lowering the drinking age will not solve anything.
As you can see the United States must teach their youth how to drink and when it is appropriate like countries in Europe. Our society should educate teenagers more on drinking so they know what they are getting themselves into. Today, teens do not recievethat type of education and that is why more and more teens and college students experiment with drinking alcohol. For instance, "Europe has experienced substantial social changes in recent years including attitudinal and behavioral changes regarding alcohol use" (Allamani). In Europe people do not have the same views like people in the United States. Teenagers in the United States tend to view alcohol as a beverage that is used only as a celebratory drink, but in Europe "since they do not have a legal drinking age kids and teenagers learn and encounter alcohol at a young age so they can learn about the causes and effects of alcohol abuse" (Allamani). This shows the importance of learning how to consume alcohol and its' effects, but there are ways to teach young adults how to drink. The issue with the United states is that we have lived so long with the drinking age being 21 that if we change the drinking ageasonse people might abuse the privilege of being able to consume alcohol.
There are a variety of pros for reducing the drinking age in the United States. According to Sarah Rafson, a writer for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, people believe that people should take an alcohol education class before they are able to go out and drink (Rafson). The problem with taking alcohol education classes is when teenagers are at the age of 14 through 16 they are not responsible enough to drink. Another idea that was brought up is that people should be able to receive a drinking permit once they complete a certain amount of alcohol related classes before they can start drinking legally, but what if young adult abuse the privilege of having a permit and they drink constantly. These ideas should be tested out to see the outcome of their results.
In conclusion, this law needs to remain the same because at the age of 18 young men and women are not responsible enough when it comes to drinking alcohol in the United States. As ou were able to see the national minimum drinking age act has made a great impact on the United States and has saved many lives. Changing this act would cause problems with underage drinker take advantage of drinking alcohol. Binge drinking is another problem that will not be solved by lowering the drinking age, because teens have the tendency of wanting to abuse alcohol. Most of the time young adults compare drinking in the United States to Europe where the drinking age is lower than the United States. All in all teens do not realize how Europe has had a variety of problems since they have lowered the drinking age. Instead of lowering the drinking age teens should just become more educated about drinking alcohol so they will not abuse alcohol. So as you can see alcohol will remain a problem for years to come but lowering the drinking age will not solve any problems so keeping the drinking age at 21 is beneficial.
Work Cited
Alcohol: Problems and Solutions. "Legal drinking age." 31 Mar. 2009 http://www2.potsdam.edu/hansondj/Legal Drinking Age.html
Allamani, Allaman. "Alcoholic beverages, gender and European cultures." Substance Use & Misuse 43. 8 (July 2008): 1088-1097. Psyc INFO. EBSCO. 31 Mar. 2009 <http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=psyh&AN=2008-11320-009&site=ehost-live>.
Collins, Rebecca L., et al. "Early adolescent exposure to alcohol advertising and its relationship to underage drinking." Journal of Adolescent Health 40. 6 (June 2007): 527-534. Psyc INFO. EBSCO. 25 Mar. 2009. <http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=psyh&AN=2007-08023-008&site=ehost-live>.
Lewis, Melissa A., et al. "Examining the relationship between typical drinking behavior and 21st birthday drinking behavior among college students: implications for event-specific prevention." Addiction 104. 5 (May 2009): 760-767. Academic Search Premier. EBSCO. 12 Apr. 2009 <http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&d b=aph&AN= 37345440&site=ehost-live>.
Martinez, Julia A., Miguel A. Munoz Garc"a, and Kenneth J. Sher. "A new minimum legal drinking age (MLDA)? Some findings to inform the debate." Addictive Behaviors 34. 4 (Apr. 2009): 407-410. Academic Search Premier. EBSCO. 12 Apr. 2009 <http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=36195216&site=ehost-live>.
Nelson, David E., et al. "State Alcohol-Use Estimates Among Youth and Adults, 1993-2005." American Journal of Preventive Medicine 36. 3 (Mar. 2009): 218-224. Academic Search Premier. 12 Apr. 2009 <http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx ?direct=true&db =aph&AN=36539398&site=ehost-live>.
Rafson, Sarah. "Pros and Cons of reducing the drinking age." Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. July 12, 2007. 31 Mar. 2009 http://www.scrippsnews.com/node/25194
Roan, Shari. "A lower legal drinking age? Health experts, college presidents debate." Los Angeles Times. September 2008. 31 Mar. 2009 http://articles.latimes.com/2008/sep/01/health/he-drinking1
Thomas, Sandra P. "From the editor--A dangerous new type of teenage drinking." Issues in Mental Health Nursing 28. 11 (Nov. 2007): 1199-1200. Psyc INFO. EBSCO. 8 Apr. 2009 <http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=psyh&AN=2007-17973-001&site=ehost-live>.
Wagenaar, Alexander C., Kathleen M. Lenk, and Trad L. Toomey. "Policies to Reduce Underage Drinking." Alcohol problems in adolescents and young adults: Epidemiology, neurobiology, prevention, and treatment. New York. Springer Science + Business Media, 2006. Psyc INFO. EBSCO. 26 Mar. 2009 <http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=psyh&AN=2005-15632-013&site=ehost-live>.
http://www.howard-winn.k12.ia.us/projects/ind_stdy06/ac/drink/index.html 31 Mar. 2009
http://alcoholnews.org/underage_drink.html 31 Mar. 2009
