Michael Matteson
Kacie Beagen
ENG 105
4/29/09
Violent Video Games
The controversy of violent video games has been around for decades. Video games have been around since the early eighties, and since graphics have been able to depict two dimensional objects that can do an action, there has been violence. In the first Mario brothers video game you shot fire balls, and punched other characters, but there was never an issue of violence then. It was only a true controversial issue when people started getting hurt, and there needed someone to take the blame. In 1999 was when the columbine shooting incident occurred and because of this, video games became the number one target for adolescence violence. But the facts and evidence has been proven to show that these claims are false. Some have argued that violent video games provoke violent behavior and cause children to become lazy, though there is no evidence to support these claims. If anyone that has ever played a video game were approached about this issue, they would state that video games are a fun and entertaining hobby that does not make them want to kill people or themselves. In reality there have been tests done to show that educational video games developed for grade school students can actually improve brain development and encourage students to want to learn, and also be a fun alternative to recreational forms of education. Exercise video games have also been proven to be a healthy and fun alternative to traditional forms of exercise for children. Video games have also been the target to ridicule because they increase the hand eye coordination of children which can make them better killers. But in reality this claim comes with much misconception. All and all video games are under much criticism for reasons that are illegitimate, and in reality cause much more benefit and negative effects for children.
The counterarguments against video games are that they can cause children to be lazy, and that violent video games can cause children to imitate these actions and cause violent behavior. In reality there have been many studies done to show the falsies of these claims. The experiments done have random individuals of all ages playing violent and nonviolent video games. Then after they are placed in a room with the other children or sent home to see if the behaviors of the individuals have changed. The results show that the actions of the individuals that play violent video games compared to the individuals who played nonviolent video games did not differ. And that there were no violent tendencies for either group.
In another study done it showed another way that the counterarguments of violence in video games are also inaccurate. In another study done on young individuals it was to show the comparison between children that played violent video games compared to individuals that watched regular television. The results showed that children that played violent video games for as long as those who watched television for the same amount of time showed very similar tendencies once finished. This helps show that violent video games don't necessarily have positive effects on children, but obviously do not show negative effects.
Another argument to support video games that is often avoided is there consistency in trying to sell violent video games to young children. Video games have had ratings from AA, all ages, to AO, adults only since the early 90's. The rating very from all ages, everyone, teen, mature, and adults only for the exact reason of keeping inappropriate video games from those who are not mature enough to experience them. The issue comes more on the parents that are purchasing mature games for their seven year old children, and that should not come on the producers as being the bad ones rather the consumers providing them.
Video games have made many successful attempts at being alternative educational devices for children. There have been studies done to show that educational video games not only help children become more intelligent, but also increase their motivation to learn as well. In a study done among grade level students in developing countries, the educational video games proved to be a productive alternative to traditional forms of education. The teachers said that after the educational tools were used, it not only increased there knowledge of the subject, but caused them to become much more motivated to learn in class as well. This was one of many studies done to show that video games can be an extremely productive alternative to traditional forms of education, and provide motivational tools as well as educational.
Video games such as DDR, or any of the WII or WII-Fit games have become popular forms of alternative exercises for all ages. There have been many studies done to show that playing these games which are much more attractive to younger audiences can have the same effect as more recreational forms of exercise if done for the same periods of time. There are also games from Sony called "excergames" that are aimed at causing the individual playing to get their blood pumping and be active for another healthy alternative to exercise. These exercises range from activities such as kickboxing to yoga. There was also a study conducted on students between the ages of 7-10 on a game not even aimed at causing children to exercise, but merely a common action video game. This game, Tekken 3, is a fighting game for children of the ages 7 and up. The results of the study conducted from this video game showed that children who played this game had: increased heart rate, increase energy expenditure, and increased ventilation. This study showed that even the games not necessarily aimed at being a healthy alternative to formal ways of exercise can be a productive alternative to more recreational forms of exercises for children.
Another positive aspect of video games is that they can highly increase hand-eye coordination. There was a study done to prove this. There was three groups: individuals who have never fired a gun and never played first person shooter video games, individuals who have never shot a fire-arm, but were highly skilled and experienced in first person shooter video games, and ten year veterans of the armed services. The results varied, but there was a common trend for all three categories. Those who were experienced in first-person shooter video games that have never shot a fire-arm before accuracies were far closer to those of experienced armed service men, than of those who have never shot a fire-arm before and have never played first person shooter video games. These results helped conclude just how beneficial video games can be to the developments of hand-eye coordination.
The counter argument for this claim is that yes it does increase hand-eye coordination, but that is the cause of violent shootings, such as the columbine massacre. The Columbine Massacre occurred in 1999 in Columbine, Colorado. On a normal school day at Columbine High School, two students showed up with guns. They went around shooting and holding students hostage. The two students shot and killed fourteen students, and injuring twenty one before turning the guns on themselves. This incident was the start of the violent video game controversy. The students were allegedly addicted to the first person shooting game called, Doom. But to investigations done after the incident these allocations were deemed false due to lack of evidence. The students were addicted to pain killers and other anti-depressants. The studies done following this incident show the same results, that children who play violent video games do no show violent tendencies. The results only display violent tendencies for those who were predisposed to violent behavior. In other words only violent children cause violent actions, not violent video games.
In conclusion, video games have become a popular target for ridicule for recent incidents in the youth and violence. But do to studies, experiments, and research done, it shows that these claims are merely a sad attempt on trying to put cause on pure immoral actions. The reality is that video games are just as dangerous as watching television or movies. And in reality video games have been proven to not only be used as alternative ways to educate children but to motivate them to learn as well. And to add on to that research has shown that exercise video games as well as normal video games can be healthy alternatives to more traditional ways of exercise as well as ways to help improve hand-eye coordination. All in all video games have a bad wrap with very little credibility or validity for these false claims.
