Pugliano 1
Nicolas Pugliano
Ms. Kacie Beagen
English 105
27 April 2009
To Expand or Not to Expand: Should it even be a question?
For centuries, Humphrey's Peak has served as one of four sacred mountains to the Navajo and Hopi Indians, but also as one of the most beautiful landmarks in the southwest. It is home to a wide variety of plants and animals and contains shrines and medicinal herbs that the Native Americans use for many religious rituals and ceremonies. In 1938, the Arizona Snowbowl ski resort was opened on this peak and has ever since been surrounded tremendous amounts of opposition by Flagstaff locals as well as the Native American tribes living in Northern Arizona. Now, because of inconsistent winter snowfall, an expansion of the ski resort as well as the manufacture of artificial snow has been proposed. Until now, it has never been given the clearance. In 2005, the National Forest Service issued the Final Environmental Impact Statement which gave consent for the proposed expansion to take place. Since then, the proposal has been fought against by the Native Americans, the Sierra Club, and locals of Flagstaff to prevent it from happening. Although this expansion could lead to certain local and statewide benefits as well as a cultural center being built for the education of visitors on Native American history, the overall effect poses the possibility of being detrimental to multiple environmental and social aspects that are dependent on the mountain's relatively "untouched" state. In total, the expansion of the Arizona Snowbowl would be an infringement on the Native Americans freedom to practice religion, harmful to the environment, and not as economically beneficial is previously thought.
For an immemorial time, the San Francisco Peaks have been held sacred by the Navajo and Hopi Indians, as well as additional tribes such as the Zuni, Havasupai, White Mountain Apache, San Juan Southern Pauite, Acoma, and five others. The peaks fall into the story of the creation of the areas for which these tribes are to live (see below picture) and gather medicinal and ceremonial herbs for religious rituals.
The Navajo Nation Flag showing Humphrey's Peak in Blue
(www.geocities.com/navajonation1/Navajo Nation.html)
Also, the peaks are home to Kachinas which are summoned for multiple reasons ranging from healing the sick to bringing water for crops and many other spiritual callings. In order to practice these beliefs and rituals, the Peaks must be left in a state of perfection and natural beauty as to not upset the Kachinas. Because of the proposed expansion, this need for the mountains to be in a perfect state has been potentially violated which could lead to the tribes not being able to practice the beliefs which have been handed down throughout many generations. This prevention would be a violation of the Native American Free Exercise of Religion Act, however in 1994, the clause which included provisions for sacred site protection was dropped, making the act unenforceable (Save the Peaks Coalition). Because of this, the tribes have tried to work with the National Forest Service in order to gain leverage in this situation. In 2005, Nora Rasure stated in the FEIS that the Native American tribes and the Forest Service must "work together to try to minimize.any [negative] impacts to the traditional cultural values of the Peaks" (FEIS 29). In that same document, she also approved the Snowbowl expansion plan stating that the concerns from the tribes opposing the expansion are seen as "major issues.causing religious and cultural repercussions for which there may be no mitigating actions" (FEIS 27). As seen by this document, it is apparent that the expansion will have a negative effect on the tribe's right to practice religion and is an example of an "epistemological incompatibility" where "sacred justice claims continue to be largely ignored" (Lauderdale 1). Although legislative items such as the previously mentioned Native American Free Exercise of Religion Act or Executive Order 13007 which states that the government must (1) accommodate access to Indian sacred sites and (2) avoid adversely affecting the physical integrity of such sacred sites are not technically violated, this is only because of either parts of the legislation that have since been amended, or the overall generality which prevents such violations from being completely admissible in court. As said by Thomas Beauty, Chairman of the Yavapai-Apache Nation, the US court system "supports the desecration of a cultural and religious location" and has "disregarded the Religious Freedoms Act.[and] abandoned the United States trust commitment and responsibility to Indian tribes" (News From Indian Country 1).
One of the biggest parts of the proposed expansion is the use of reclaimed water for snowmaking. This is effluent that has been taken from the Flagstaff sewage system and treated to comply with the EPA standards. It is true that Flagstaff's reclaimed water has an "A+" rating, meaning that fecal coliform is not detectable in four of seven daily reclaimed water samples, however public drinking water is not allowed by EPA standards to have any sort of repeat samples containing fecal coliform. Considering that visitors including small children will be exposed to this reclaimed water on a daily basis if it is to be used for snowmaking, the chances of someone ingesting it are highly likely. Studies conducted on this waste water show that it among the many toxic chemicals and compounds found within it, that it also "[contained] a variety of PPCPs (pharmaceuticals and personal care products) that are.known as endocrine disrupting compounds" (FEIS 3, 4-189). These chemicals have been linked to a "wide range of human health problems, including.growing incidence of infertility and genital deformities, increasing rates of breast and prostrate cancers, and neurological disorders in children" (FEIS 3-189). These chemicals not only pose a threat to the increased amount of people visiting the mountain, but also to the wildlife that calls it their home. In addition the health side effects associated with consuming reclaimed water, there is also the fact that this water is what is used to recharge the natural aquifer which resides in Northern Arizona. Currently, the Rio de Flag processes about 2 million gallons per day of reclaimed water; seventy five percent of which goes back into the Rio de Flag where it eventually replenishes the aquifer which helps to provide a natural source of fresh water. If snowmaking is to be implemented at Snowbowl, there would be an increase in demand for reclaimed water at about 1. 5 million gallons today. Although some believe that this water will eventually make its way back into the aquifer, studies show that "41% to 96% of the water used is lost to evaporation and sublimation-significantly reducing any potential recharge to the aquifer" (Shanker 1). This means that the reclamation facility would have to increase production (which would use more energy in the long run) to treat water that would not end up where it needs to be in what has been seen in the last decade as a drought to the southwest. It is apparent that this alternative is neither sustainable nor beneficial to the environment.
Finally, a major aspect of the argument for the expansion of Snowbowl is its overall beneficial effects on the local economy. Most like to attribute the main driver of the Flagstaff winter economy to the Snowbowl, however Flagstaff and the surrounding areas are not only home to the ski resort, but also such tourist attractions as the Grand Canyon, Meteor Crater, Sunset Crater, Lowell Observatory, Sedona and Oak Creek, the Painted Desert, Lake Powell, and Monument Valley. To make a comparison, over the last 11 years, the Snowbowl had a net income of $2. 66 million dollars (FEIS 3-109) whereas revenues due to tourism from Lake Powell average about $500 million per year, spent at Lake Powell and in the surrounding areas (Drain Lake Powell? 1). Looking at these statistics, it is hard to say that anything other than a 1000% increase in total revenue would do the Snowbowl justice in competing with the surrounding attractions. Also, the proposal states that the expansion will "generate a total of 332 [full time jobs]" (FEIS 3-98) however the "employment [impacts].would be short-term and are not expected to last beyond the completion of the construction activity" (FEIS 3-97). Even with the increased employment, the ski area would not compete with the top seven employers in Flagstaff such as W.L. Gore (3,393 full time employees) or the Flagstaff Medical Center (1,999 full time employees) (Flagstaff Chamber of Commerce 1) whose employment runs into perpetuity compared with the Snowbowl's ten-year estimate for employment increase. In addition to this, Snowbowl expects "significant improvements to the skiing facility.along with more consistent operations would result in greater season pass sales" (FEIS 3-112). However, in the 2001/2002 and 2002/2003 seasons, the annual snowfall increased by 236% but only led to the sale of an additional 412 season passes between the years (FEIS 3-129). This shown in the below graph:
By generally analyzing the line equations assigned to the two trends, it is apparent that there is an insignificant correlation between increased snowfall and season pass sales. Where there to be what is apparently expected from the expansion, these two line equations should be identical or close to it, but according to this data, there would need to be an additional 350% (respectively) increase in snowfall, which is completely out of the span intended for the expansion project.
In conclusion, the Native American tribes that hold these mountains close to their religions and beliefs have been doing so for thousands upon thousands of years, so to desecrate them in a way that would taint the overall image they provide would be inhumane and indecent. Many tribal advocates have explained how the Kachina's that live on the mountains are the ones that provide water and additional sustenance for them, so if they are to become upset, they will leave, taking a large part of the Native American beliefs with them. These are things not only recognized by the tribes themselves, but also the Forest Service. In the Draft Environmental Impact statement which was released before the FEIS became available, it stated that "based on the belief systems of many of the tribes we must consider at least a portion of these impacts as a potentially irreversible impact to these tribes' religions" (3-28). Considering that the government knows how the expansion would affect the tribe's beliefs, it is amazing that a few years after this statement was released, they then released the FEIS which approved the plan. As Joe Shirley Jr., the Navajo Nation President phrased it, "The United States of America will commit genocide by allowing the desecration of the essence of our way of life." And in addition to all of this, the argument for improved economics which those proposing the expansion continuously fall back on is continuously fragmented with terms like "short-term benefits" or "insignificant change". Regardless, it would be false to say that the drought experienced by the entire Southwest throughout the last decade has not adversely affected Snowbowl and its visitation volume. Whether or not it is the cause for all low attendance is debatable, but it is visible that during some years of abnormally low snowfall, the Snowbowl lost money or had very low revenues. Changes are needed in order for it to survive economically, but the proposed changes are not those in which it has needs for. Snowmaking would potentially give it a more consistent season, but the risks associated with placing treated effluent on the mountain are more than most are willing to put up with. According to current governmental legislation, the proposed expansion does not technically violate specific acts protecting Native Americans right to freedom of religion, but these laws and acts are more than a decade old, and it is obvious that now is the time for a change. This change should not come as a one-sided agreement on the fate of these mountains, but as a cooperative effort between advocates and opponents for the expansion; those who enjoy the mountain in its natural, pristine shape and those who enjoy it as a source of recreational activity. The proposal Alternative 2 as listed in the FEIS is an example of what this collaboration would entail. No snowmaking, less tree thinning, but there would be improvements made to the Arizona Snowbowl to help ensure its success through future winter seasons. The current proposed alternative would be damaging to the tribe's freedom to practice religion, harmful to the environment, and not as economically sound as initially proposed, but if there were to be an agreement made such as Alternative 2, issues could be worked out on both sides to guarantee cooperation between the people and a harmony for their personal interests.
