Brittney Randall
25 April 2009
Eng 105
Extended Argument
The Exploitation of Young Barbies
Starting in the 1960's, a trend was becoming wildly popular in the United States (Today Show). This popular trend was that parents were beginning to have thoughts that their children need to be involved in social activities that would aid in their personal growth. Child beauty pageants were the answer for these parents because these pageants were said to be stimulating for their child's personal development. However, not all parents and experts in psychology feel the same. Studies conclude that child beauty pageants can lead to eating and mental health disorders, horrendous crimes, and a stunted character growth.
Flawed Physical Appearances
Parents who enter their children into child beauty pageants, assume it is for only good intentions. Most of these parents do not believe that their children could obtain mixed up perceptions of their physical appearances. Jane Treays, a journalist, has done a thirteen- year piece on two child beauty pageant contestants for Time magazine and also filmed the piece for the television network company BBC. She interviewed Asia Mansur and Brooke Breedwell, two five-year-old beauty pageant stars, and thirteen years later, interviewed them again to see if they had matured and left their life of luxury behind. When Treays first met these girls she expressed that these girls were, "children who are painted and pompadoured to look like mini-hookers," which gives a vivid glimpse of how these mothers made their daughters look too adult- like for their age (Times Online. When Jane Treays interviewed Asia and Brooke thirteen years later she was surprised at her findings. Treays expresses that Brooke is, "a sporty girl who rarely wears make-up or glances into mirrors," which contradicted her original opinion, thinking that the girl would have a distorted ego and be grotesquely thin (Times Online). When she met with Asia, she wasn't surprised to find that Asia was still competing in beauty pageants and still kept up with her regular beauty routine. When Treays asked Asia why she was still competing, she said, "Some heads are just made for crowns," giving example that she wants to keep doing pageants (Times Online). Brooke and Asia's parents felt that their daughters physical appearances had not been flawed and that if anything, the pageants helped to discipline their children. Yet, not all experts agree with these parents and say that their daughters were lucky.
After a childhood filled with beauty pageants, experts say that many of the young girls who compete, can become concerned with their body images. In the article, "Childhood Beauty Pageant Contestants: Associations with Adult Disordered Eating and Mental Health," a doctor in psychology health, and two medical doctors, conducted a study that connected child beauty pageants with eating disorders and distorted mental health. The doctors took twenty-two women, eleven of which had competed in child beauty pageants, and eleven who did not compete in beauty pageants. The results of the study showed that, "Females who had participated in beauty pageants as a child, scored higher on the bulimia test that was distributed," the results indicate that there is a consequential association between childhood beauty pageants and increased body dissatisfaction (Wonderlich 296). Also another study result showed that, "females who had participated in these pageants perceived their current figure as larger, and preferred their figure to be smaller [.]" indicating that the women considered themselves to be a little overweight (Wonderlich 296). Also, the females who had participated in the pageants had higher depression scores, which manifests the main theory that these young children whose parents enter them in child beauty pageants, have a higher risk of body dissatisfaction and mental health issues. These child beauty pageants are dangerous for young girls because they get this perception that every woman needs to have a slim, perfect figure and image. Therefore, distorting their own thoughts of their bodies. However, the flawed physical effects from child beauty pageants, is not the only serious issue present.
Breeding Illegal Crimes Against Children
The parents who enter their children in the beauty pageants, feel that there is no harm to their children. On the television network broadcasting company, ABC News, an interview was done with the child beauty pageant contestants and their parents. The article states that, " with the murder of pageant queen Jon Benet Ramsey and the growth of the pageant industry, critics wonder if pageants may be attracting unsavory elements," which many were repulsed by, and thought that, " the pageants were sexualizing these little girls" (ABC News). An officer who specializes in pedophiles rebuts those statements saying, "Parents, I believe, have nothing to fear putting their children in these types of child pageants," which still doesn't ease some experts minds thinking that these pageants are a, "potential goldmine of images like Jon Benet" (ABC News). No matter what concern experts purport of these child beauty pageants, parents still feel that it does nothing but help their children. In an interview with the Today Show on NBC, the parent of Meaghan Jones refutes those thoughts of possible harm resulting from the pageants by saying, "When you dress them in a certain manner, you know you have people that would think certain things, but they are in no harm," which in fact, this mother is supporting the logical fallacy of arguing from lack of knowledge. She assumes because she has never heard of harm done to these children in pageants, that it doesn't exist. Yet, factual information sides with the fact that these children are being put in harms way.
There are risks involved in these child beauty pageants, ultimately putting the children in harms way. David W. Boles, author of "Pedophilia and Child Beauty Pageant Perversion," writes on how children are in danger of being abducted or even murdered because of the way these young girls are sexually exposed, like Jon Benet Ramsey was. He states, "The parents must work to correct that inappropriate expression of prepubescent sexualizatio of their children," meaning that they should not make their children look too sexy at such a young age (Urban Semiotic). He also goes on to say that parents should not allow, "participation in the inappropriate eroticization of childhood that is the underlying tease of those sorts of pageants," relating to the inappropriate routines the parents formulate for their children and how they can bring in unwanted people from the outside to see their young girls. (Urban Semiotic) Again, connecting evidence with the Jon Benet Ramsey case, a young pageant girl abducted and murdered (see figure 1), the ABC News article articulates that the crime was commited because, "the pageants sexualize little girls," meaning that if the pageants would lower their standards of sexuality, then the children involved would be in a safer atmosphere (ABC News). The way to make sure the children are safe from danger, is to either eliminate child beauty pageants altogether, or redo the qualifications of the competitions.
Figure 1
http://caosblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/08/pl_jonbenet_060817_ssv.jpg
Stunted Character Growth
Some parents who enter their children in beauty pageants, can be blind sided at the effects it has on their children. An article written by William J. Cromie, a staff writer for the Harvard Gazette, wrote about an interview one of his colleagues had with the mothers whose children are apart of the pageant world. Cromie writes, "Gaining poise and confidence is cited most often by parents as the reason for putting their child into these contests," which is the mentality parents have about these pageants (Harvard Gazette). One of the parents was interviewed and her motive for putting her daughter in the pageants was, "She learns skills such as going out in a crowd, not to be shy, and to be herself while people are watching and focusing on her," which supports Cromie's main idea of why parents put their kids in the pageants (Harvard Gazette). This interview compares with several other interviews with these mothers when the controversial topics of the pageants are brought up. During the Today Show interview with Meghan Jones' mother, she relates and agrees with the same reasoning the other mothers have for putting their kids in the pageants. The mother is asked why she puts her daughter in these type of competitions and not something less adult- like, the mother responds by saying, "I was trying to give Meghan some exposure as far as public speaking. When she was young, she was really, really, shy. I wanted her to develop her own type of personality," which again is a main reason for mothers to have their children join these pageants (Today Show). However, most onlookers of the controversy and experts say that the main goals these parents want their children to reach, are not being reached. They say that most parents set their standards too high and can stress the children.
Parents really want the best for their kids, but putting them in the beauty pageants could do them more personal harm, than good. Andrea Eubanks, a staff writer at the University of Tulsa gazette, writes about how the mothers can stand in the way of their children making any personal progress. Therefore, pausing the main cause of putting their children in the pageants. Eubanks is concerned that the parents are making their children dread hobbies like beauty pageants. Eubanks writes, "These pageants put unnecessary stresses on young girls that are only magnified by mothers who act as though they want to be the ones on stage performing" (Utulsa.edu). She is responding to the fact that the mothers are contradicting themselves and not giving these children the experience they first intended for them to have. These are the same mothers who are video taped on TLC's show, "Toddler and Tiaras," which gives a first-hand experience and view at how the mothers really act. For example, Marleighs mom is interviewed on the television show and she tells viewers that, " Marleigh loves it. She absolutely loves it," while her two year old daughter is crying backstage because her mother wants to put lipstick on her (TLC). Also another first hand example of how the mothers are ruining the experience for their children is again Marleighs mother who says, "Marleigh will continue to compete in pageants, until the day she says, mommy no more," and following the scene her daughter is telling her she does not want to do it (TLC). The mothers claim they want to give their children a good experience for building life skills, yet they are ruining their chances of learning anything. Yet, not all mothers are like this because it is the child who becomes demanding and superficial.
Many parental experts say that a main outcome of the pageants is the child's sour attitude. The Ball State University's communications manager, Marc Ransford, writes about the negative effects pageants can have on children. Ransford writes, "When some children win a pageant at that age, they could be thinking they are pretty and better than others," which is not the correct way for girls to mature (BSU.edu). Young girls need to be raised in a way that teaches them humbleness, respect, and manners. Because, these young girls do not learn these traits, they become conceited and spoiled and assume that everyone owes something to them for being pretty. Another negative outcome of winning from these types of pageants is that, "Some children encounter problems with school friends or siblings after participating in contests. Jealousy or envy of other children could also stem from the pageants," because the children do not understand that they are not always going to be better than everyone at everything (BSU.edu). The pageants can embed these images of perfection in these children at young ages, and the children will go through life, thinking that they, as well as everyone else, need to be perfect. Therefore can lead to body dissatisfaction, and stunted personal growth. Parents say they put their children in the pageants with the best of intentions but, the outcomes of the pageants are more negative, than positive.
Conclusion
A multitude of studies have been conducted on the controversial issues derived from child beauty pageants. Studies reveal that the child beauty pageants can lead to body dissatisfaction, horrendous crimes against these children, and stunting of character building skills. What is the reasoning for putting these kids in the pageants? Parents say it is because they want their child to build life skills, and yet studies show that the most that come out of these competitions are not positive. The criteria for the child beauty pageants need to be changed before more children become a negative outcome from them.
Work Cited
ABC News. "Child Beauty Pageants: Fun or Fiendish?" ABC News website. 8 April
2009. <http://abcnews.go.com/gma/story?id=2338102>.
Boles, David W. "Pedophilia and Child Beauty Pageant Perversion." Urban Semiotic.
8 April 2009. <http://urbansemiotic.com/2006/08/18/pedophilia-and-child-
beauty-pageant-perversion/index.html>.
Cromie, William, J. "The Whys and Woes of Beauty Pageants." The Harvard University
Gazette. 08 June 2000. <http://www.hno.harvard.edu/gazette.2000/06.08/
Beauty.html>.
Eubanks, Andrea. "Youth Beauty Pageants: Beautiful Children, Ugly Parents."
The Collegian. 22 Feb 2000. <http://www.utulsa.edu/collegian/article.asp?
Article=38>.
Inbar, Michael. "Parents Defend Putting Their Kids in Beauty Pageants." Today Show.
27 Jan 2009. <http:// today.msnbc.msn.com/id/288730386>.
Owen, Rob. "Americas Undercover Eyes; Child Beauty Pageants." Pittsburgh Post
Gazette. 31 May 2001. <http://www/postgazette.com/tv/20010513owen.asp>.
Ransford, Marc. "Professor Says Beauty Pageants Aren't for Kids." Ball State
University News Center. 8 April 2009. <http://www.bsu.edu/news/article/
0,1370-1019-260,00.html>.
TLC. "Toddlers and Tiaras." 10 Sept 2008.
Treays, Jane. "The Child Beauty Pageant Queens Who Grew Up." The Times.
25 May 2008. <http://women.timesonline.co.uk/tol/life_and_style/women/
article3997487.ece>.
Wonderlich, Anna L. Ackard, Diann M. Henderson, Judith B. Childhood Beauty Pageant
Contestants: Associations with Adult Eating and Mental Health.
1
Randall
