Gender roles 6
Header: Gender Roles
Blue Vs. Pink
Brittnee Barreda
Northern Arizona University
Brittnee Barreda
Jacki Belknap
English 105
Blue Vs. Pink
On average children ages two to eleven years old watch on average 20,000 television ads a year (Media Family, 2009). That is about 150 hours of commercial advertising that children watch about gender roles. With so many hours of television ads that children watch they learn a lot about our society through both television shows and commercials. The children's parents and family members should be the people to teach the children how they should act and dress, not television commercials. Of course we cannot just stop children from watching television so that they do not learn from them; however, parents can enforce on their children how they want them to act and how they should present themselves in society. Parents should be the role models for any children in the world, not television commercials.
Television commercials, however, do teach our children what is already expected in our society. These ads are not teaching children anything new that our society has not already created. For example, when watching a children's network such as Nickelodeon the majority of the television ads were either geared towards a boy or girl, but they were hardly ever towards a neutral gender. For instance, when commercials are geared towards boys the commercial is really loud, and the setting is somewhere outside the house whether it is in the backyard or the park. In a recent study done in 2001, out of 595 commercials only twelve percent of boy only commercials were shot inside a home (Larson, 2009). The commercials are fast paced and it has lots of action. This is teaching boys to be more independent, more physical, and more active. These descriptions are like most of the little boys in our society and they are not shown any different in any television ads.
With girl television ads, girls are shown in a different light. Girl commercials are normally seen inside the house, the commercials are quieter, and the girls are shown to be doing more passive things such as playing with dolls and playing with kitchenware. In the same study done in 2001, thirty-nine percent of the girl only commercials were shot in the home compared to the twelve percent of boy commercials that were shot inside the home (Larson, 2009). These commercials are telling girls that they should be more quiet, they are not as active as boys, and they should be in the house more and not as much being outside as the boys. These commercials are showing kids what all the girls in the nation do so you should do it to. The ads are telling girls all over the nation that they should be just like the girls in the commercials. They are forcing these girls that they should want to play with dolls and be nurturing and not want to be in control and assertive like the boys.
Commercials are showing what children naturally do on a daily basis. Boys tend to naturally be louder and like to go out and play outside. Girls tend to love to play with their dolls inside the house and they are normally not at loud as boys and are naturally nurturing towards their dolls and pretend puppy animals. Television ads are showing just showing commercials that already appeal to the children. An ad would not sell a product if it was showing a girl playing outside with her dolls and the commercial was loud and fast paced. This commercial would not appeal to many little girls so their product would not sell. Television commercials are just trying to sell their products.
It seems as if television is merely just restating what our culture has created on how people should act. These ads are just helping children understand what is expected of each of them in our society. They show them what they can play with, how they can act, and what they can eat. Commercials are not showing anything wrong with gender roles and they are not teaching anything different with children. They are merely just helping the parents on teaching kids about gender roles. Television teaching gender roles to children works because children tend to model other children that they see on television.
Even though television does not teach children anything different than what our society teaches them, it should be the parents that teach children about gender roles and what is expected from each of them. Children are constantly shown television commercials hours a day, however, children are constantly around their parents or family members and they look up to them so the children will easily listen to them and take whatever they say as something right. Studies have shown that most parents do not agree with what society has created for gender roles (Wood, Gugula, 2002). Because of most parents do not agree with the society rules, they should be the ones telling their kids what they believe.
Television is showing children that boys should be independent and girls should be passive. Boys should play with Tonka trucks and superheroes and girls play with puppies and dolls. The two pictures below show the most popular girls' and boys' toys from the 1950s to the 1970s. On the girls side all of the toys are dolls, puppies, and board games. For the boys all the toys are guns, action figures, and jets. On the girls side the stereotype are taking care of babies, puppies, and staying indoors. For the boys, the toys are a lot of action, violence, and toys that are mostly played with outside. Who created these stereotypes? Who created the gender roles that are shown on television commercials every day? We did. However, us as a society should not force children into stereotypical roles. When children watch these types of commercials these stereotypes follow these children into their adulthood. Parents should teach their children their own views or perhaps even teaching their children on making their own decisions on who they want to be.
In the commercial study that I mentioned before, eighty-five percent of girl only commercials showed cooperative interaction. In the boy commercials only about twenty-seven percent showed the boys in a cooperative interaction (Larson, 2009). Again this reinstates my point that boys are more independent than girls that girls are just shown to be stuck in the house and be not as independent as boys. Even though times are changing and women are much more independent than they used to be fifty years ago, commercials are still showing 1950s gender stereotypes. Another interesting result from the experiment was that twenty-eight percent of the boy commercials showed competitive interaction, while there was not a single commercial that showed competitive interaction between girls (Larson, 2009). What does this teach? Competitive interaction teaches an aggressive behavior. What is wrong with girls having an aggressive behavior? With girls having a more aggressive behavior they can be more independent and have more motivation to accomplish their girls. Parents should teach their children to competitive, both boys and girls. Being competitive builds self-esteem and lets kids be kids. Kids will not learn anything if they are just stuck at home not playing any sports and not interacting with other kids. If commercials will not show both genders doing activities equally, then parents need to make sure that they are the ones teaching their children that not matter what gender, they can do what other kids do.
While at a family members house over Christmas break, I watched my little cousin, who is five years old, walked down the stairs with his sister's purse and was swinging it around. I started laughing, however, his father immediately said, "Kanyon let go of that purse that is for girls not boys." He immediately dropped the purse and did not play with it again. Studies have shown that boys are more pressured with stereotypes than girls. Girls seem to have more flexibility on what they can and cannot play with. Kids are not getting a choice on what toys they can play with. They are not getting a choice on who they want to be. Society has chosen for them, and they are shown every day with television commercials. Even though boys are more pressured towards the stereotypes girls still get pressured towards certain gender stereotypes. When I was walking through the Target toy isles searching for a gift I saw a little girl walking up and down the isles searching for a toy. I was interested because this girl was walking through the boy isles. After staring a certain toy for a few seconds she picked up an electronic dinosaur. She immediately ran over to her mother to show her the new toy that she wanted. Once the mother looked at the toy she kindly said "No honey that kind of toy is for your brother". So she walked back and put the toy back and picked up a Barbie doll instead and walked off.
Kids seem to be getting teased for wanting to be something opposite than everyone else in society for instance, a little boy wanting to play with a girl's purse or a little girl wanting an electronic dinosaur. Other kids will tease them and make sure that they know who those toys are meant for, and that they are not allowed to play with them. When kids are teased at an early age, it follows them into adulthood. When kids are teased for being different from others, they will want to try and fit in and change their own views to follow gender roles that other kids follow. Parents across the nation should teach their kids to be unique to make their own decisions on being the kind of person that they want to be. Kids should be able to play with any kinds of toys that they want. What is so wrong with a boy wanting to play with a pure? What is so wrong with a girl wanting a dinosaur? What is the fear of what the child might turn into if they are allowed to play with those certain toys? Nothing will happen if a young child gets to play with a certain type of toy. Gender roles are taking over being a kid. Toys are just toys, kids are just kids, they should not have to worry about being yelled at by their parents for playing with the wrong toy, or not being man enough or feminine enough. Kids are way to young for that. Every person's childhood affect their life once they are an adult. Kids need to have freedom when they are kids, which is what being a kid is all about.
With television commercials constantly showing kids what they can and cannot play with during their lifetime. Parents need to teach their kids that is does not matter which type of toy they play with whether it is a doll or a dinosaur. These stereotyped commercials are affecting many children into their adulthood. With parents teaching their kids that they do not always need to follow what our society has deemed appropriate for each gender, children can be more free and not so stuck in each gender role. They do not have to be punished or embarrassed for wanting to play with something other than their gender toy. With parents teaching their kids that they can make their own choices kids can be free to be whomever they want and they can make whatever type of ambitions they want for when they become adults. Boys do not always have to be independent, assertive workers, and girls do not always have to be nurses or teachers. With the freedom for each kid to be whoever they want to be allows for endless possibilities. Boys should not be teased for wanting to be a nurse or a professional dancer. Girls should not be discriminated against for wanting to be a construction worker or a truck driver.
With parents teaching their children to be open minded, and not so stuck in gender roles, boys and girls will not be made fun for wanting to do something that is deemed a certain gender. All the kids around the nation, even the world, will have the freedom without having the fear of being made fun of. Every kid will not be rejected a certain toy because it is for a different gender. Every kid will just have the freedom of being a kid, and then once they become older they can make decisions for themselves on what type of gender roles they want to become apart of.
