Alexis Beskid
Eng 105
Long Argument
20 April 2009
To Stretch or not to stretch
Muscle has been known for a long time as the object that applies force and as it increases in size develops more strength. It also aids in everyday activities such as walking, running and your daily thirty minute routines. As an athlete, muscle is a main player in the optimal performance and outcome of whatever event is trying to be accomplished. Physiological features of muscle are striations, white or red color depending on the oxygen present, pennate shape and it contracts by a neurotransmitter called Acetylcholine. Muscle is always in a state of partial contraction and it is ready to go when calcium binds and attaches the myosin heads. The contraction occurs as soon as myosin binds. Figure 1. 1 shows how myosin heads bind to actin and how the muscle contracts. In various workouts and exercise routines muscle is contracted, extended and pulled in various manners. The muscle contracts based on the exercise or how large or small the motor unit is. The motor unit is how many neuronal endings dive into how many muscle cells. If they innervate many muscle cells (myocytes) then something like the quadriceps would contract. If it only innervates a few then it would be a small contraction in the index finger. For athletes workout routines can work either with eccentric or concentric exercise. Eccentric means that the muscle extends past the normal angle, it extends beyond that. Concentric means to decrease the angle of the muscle or shorten the muscle. However, both workouts help soreness to arrive in your muscle. But the greater question is how to decrease the soreness and get optimal performance out of your body. Over a period of time lactic acid has always been the assumed cause of soreness in the muscle. Now studies show that there are more factors that play into the diagnosis. Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness has become the chosen way to diagnose the pain that trembles with the muscles after a workout and coincides over time.
Lactic Acid for a long period of time has always been the culprit for muscle soreness. Muscle would normally get sore after a long workout and it got even more intense the day after. The main idea was that glycogen was pulled from the cytoplasm of muscle cell and broken down to get a net yield of two ATP. ATP is utilized in various stages of muscle contraction. The net yield of two ATP then turned into lactic acid. This process explained above all happens through anaerobic respiration. Anaerobic means that oxygen isn't present and when oxygen isn't present the ATP then gets fermented into lactic acid. In the article Putting Muscles to the Acid Test it states, "For decades, physiologist ascribed muscle fatigue to something else, the buildup of lactic acid" (Profitt 1). Physiologists have been studying muscle over time on just the argument about lactic acid. There are some ideas that have come up that lactic acid is the soreness during the workout (Hanc 1). That would make sense if it is applied to modern chemistry because lactic acid as stated in the name of it is acid. When acid is applied to anything it would have a burning effect. This is not the only experiment that has been done from the founding idea of lactic acid.
In an experiment the plantar flexor motion was tested. This experiment's overall goal or outcome was to see how a muscle being stretched downward and planted would affect the muscle. Riesman decided to test individuals who were maintained a sedentary life style and compared them to athletes who were active. He took specific muscle like the Fibularis Longus and tested how that muscle reacted from a resting state to an active state. Reisman figured out which muscle had a higher reaction rate when it came to the eccentric muscle contraction. Then once the muscle was contracted he measures the soreness in the muscle. He took that sore muscle and tried to stretch each. The overall idea was to disprove or approve whether stretching actually benefitted athletes. They used both extremes to see which end product would produce an increase in soreness. In the journal titled Changes in passive tension after stretch of unexercised and eccentrically exercised human plantar flexor muscle, it states " It has been shown that muscle stiffness levels are a predictor of the amount of muscle damage from eccentric exercise"(Reisman 1). An example of an eccentric workout is running down a hill. The soreness may not be felt while running down hill, but when running up the pain is felt. The next morning that soreness correlates with the extension of legs from the striding down the hill. In this experiment the individuals that were sedentary reported "immediately after the stretch passive torque values were lower at all angles, the differences becoming more prominent at longer lengths where torque levels were higher" (Reisman 549). From this quote it shows that people that don't work out on a regular basis fatigue a lot quicker than individuals who have built up a tolerance to that stretch within the muscle. Also it states that "after the stretch muscle soreness has fallen significantly" (Reisman 550). These individuals benefitted more from stretching after the exercise than in the beginning depending on what exercise was done. If the exercise tore muscle then it is not a smart idea. Reiseman proves that as he states " it should be remembered, though, that the act of carrying out the stretch will by itself be painful for the subject and if any eccentric damage is present, risks exacerbating the damage"( Reisman 553). Precautions need to be looked at before continuing to stretch the muscle after it has harm that has been done to it because it injury will only increase. Eccentric exercises have a large impact on muscle soreness, but in athletes the problem perpetuates.
Athletes in various sports perform an abundance of different types of exercises. These exercises are aimed to amplify certain muscle groups to perform activates. For athletes that participate in sports such as soccer, basketball and track, they need to use their fast twitch type two muscle fibers. These fibers are specific to anaerobic activities such as fast sprints up and down the field/court. These muscle fibers are normally white because of the lack of oxygen present and they have a larger diameter which results in increased exerted force. For athletes that participate in marathons and long distance running they will have an abundance of type 1 slow twitch fibers. These fibers will be red because of the presence of lots of oxygen. Oxygen is of high importance and in high demand for runners that need to fuel their lungs with oxygen in order to keep breathing. They will also have more endurance and less power output. In either anaerobic or aerobic activities coaches can harm or strengthen the muscles of the athletes they are training.
Coaches try and train their athletes to reach the maximum performance; however the exercise that they are giving them they have not studied the affect that it takes on the athletes' body. They are in the same boat with everyone else that has been taught that lactic acid causes the soreness. Most coaches are prescribing stretching to take care of the soreness; however in eccentric workouts as stated before, it harms the inflamed muscle even more. This is just the tip of the ice berg of concerns when it comes to coaching techniques.
Coaches, even on the professional level are starting to figure out how to treat their athletes and to prescribe them to see the right professionals. For example, "On Monday's during the season, Mr. Tomlinson spends much of the day with Mr. Durkin trying to minimize soreness, reduce inflammation and speed what Mr. Durkin calls 'the regeneration process' (Hanc 1). Pro-athletes such as La Dainian Tomlinson, who plays for the San Diego Chargers is trying to recover in order to prepare him for the next game. His coach wants the maximum performance out of him. However, the greater question is what techniques does he use to get the soreness out of his muscles? The doctors state "When you increase your workload, you should be doing it gradually" (Hanc 2). There is a ten percent rule that most physiologist use so that they don't overwork the patient or individual. There are three areas in which the ten percent rule applies. The frequency is defined as how often you do the exercise. The intensity is how much hard and fast the individual is being pushed during the exercise. The duration is defined by how long the exercise is lasting. The exercises can be short and repetitive or rather they are there to test the endurance of the individual. The 10 percent rule has been put into place as a precautionary matter so that not just the muscle in the body, but your body as a unit handles all that it can without harming parts of it. It is used over a long period of time to help the individual get back up to maximum performance. In order to get up to the maximum performance they work with one area a week. So for example with coaches and the training modalities that they use, if they were having athletes life weights then they should only increase the weights by 10 percent. An example of that would be bicep curls. If individuals start out with lifting fifty pounds, they should only increase by 5 pounds when they meet that next step in their training. This ten percent rule is there as a tool to help the athlete or individual back up to their full potential and functional to work out again. If lactic acid as is not the cause of muscle soreness then there has to be another explanation, another reason why our bodies ache the next day.
The new idea that has come about over the years after experimenting with lactic acid is Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness. It is used by most physicians and physiologist to make diagnoses. Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness is the idea that the soreness, pain and "Eccentric activities induce micro-injury at a greater frequency and severity than other types of muscle actions" (Cheung 145). From this it can be inferred that DOMS is a diagnosis that encompasses the larger picture and looks at more than just the soreness in the muscles. Physicians look at the amount of oxygen present, the intensity of the workout, the area in which the pain is coming from, the severity of the muscle tear and then from that data, makes a diagnosis to target the largest problem with that injury. Once the largest part the injury is dealt with the smaller areas can be looked at and diagnosed from there. When athletes are not active or participating in an event over time, when they jump back into the activity it is bothersome to the body (Cheung 145). This time gap can make the diagnosis larger and more time consuming to heal.
The more time that is needed for these micro tears to heal can come in various assortments. These injuries have been put to the test in an experiment. The "examples of impairment included a decreased range of motion, decreased strength or abnormal electromyographical patterns" (Cheung 150). If these functions are messed with then the rest of the body as a whole is going to have to compensate and keep the body functioning. For an athlete who participates in soccer, if their range of motion is messed with then they will not have a full extension of their lower leg to kick the ball. For someone who participates in weight lifting the decreased strength will set them back in their workout. These are just a few examples of effects that Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness causes. However, the effects of delayed onset muscle soreness have been experimented with in individuals who are healthy and active constantly.
In this experiment there were two individuals who were male and they kept a constant active lifestyle. These guys were tested in two different conditions. They were tested in on a flat surface and on an incline and timed for a thirty minute period on each. The main focus of this test was to see how their muscles fatigue and what happened with the oxygen (ROS) and how much creatine was present. Creatine phosphate would be present in your muscle if it was between 1-10 seconds of a workout of the muscle. The way the experimenters figure out how much oxygen was present and creatine phosphate was to draw blood. Since this is a test under the category on Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness, the testing would have to be done after 24 hours. As stated "It usually peaks at 24-72 hours and disappears within 7 days after exercise" (Taguchi 1). It can take people up to 24 to at least feel any reaction within the muscles. In this experiment it was shown that "Increasesd DOMS and loss of muscle function were observed following DWN (P<0.05) but not following DWN (P>0.05)" (Close 1). This quote backs the idea that when muscles are going through an eccentric workout such as running down the hill, that they are getting harmed and not benefitting from it. It also was found that "There was a significant difference in serum creatine kinase (CK) activity between the two conditions (P<0.05) with CK activity being significantly elevated following DWN (P<0.05)" (Close 3). The blood levels were increased with creatine phosphate in the guys that ran down the hill. Through all of this data that has been collected in this experiment Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness is shown to occur more often in eccentric exercises and has become the main diagnosis tool for muscles. This experiment shows that experiments are being done from all angles and the conclusions are coming out more precise. In comparison to Lactic Acid, DOMS has more information to back the diagnoses that are being made and help the athlete as a whole to fully recover. In order for an athlete to fully recover, there are constant routines and exercises that need to take place in order to get individuals back on their feet and rocking.
For individuals who are not athletes and participate in activities on a daily basis the body responds in a different manner. Delayed onset muscle soreness has a similar effect in individuals who workout for stress purposes or just for fun. In people who work out for fun have parallel effects to athletes, that hold them back from having the optimal range of motion or maximum force put out. Athletes just need a quicker recovery time. The Federation of Sports Medicine says "Moreover, eccentric training may be advantageous to younger populations interested in improving muscle strength, as well as physically limited populations hoping to gain improvements in muscle strength and function at lower cardiac stress and perceived exertion levels" (Dannecker 6). From this statement sports medicine clinicians have found out that individuals who take care of the Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness ahead of time will have a better outcome in the end. Also, just as most statistics say that younger people have an easier time recovering because their bodies are so agile. The recovery of muscles though doesn't happen without the individual internally wanting to improve themselves. The body will tell you that it is sore through muscle pains and aches. The muscle soreness is a sign that the issues needs to be dealt with. For the optimal strength to be gained back again it is more than just a physical battle. It is an internal battle from within to want to improve and fight through the pain. It is super apparent in individuals who are beginning to work out again to believe in themselves. For athletes it is fighting through the pain to beat the other team and last longer. It goes back to that saying that "pain is weakness leaving the body." There are lots of tools to handle the pain within the body that can be provided through a physician or physical exercises.
After a workout, most individuals' muscles have become sore because they have been used strenuously over a period of time. For athletes who have been in season for awhile it is just soreness from the workouts that they are participating in on a daily basis. These are pains show that muscles are being contracting and through that they are defining and becoming sufficiently stronger. For individuals who work out every once in awhile, they can expect to be sore because their body isn't physical used the amount of work put on them. For individuals who are either athletes or general people the best way to fix the micro tears are to use a variety of tools. "In the meantime ice, stretch and perform light activity to help work the soreness from your muscles. Just be clear that it's not lactic acid you are working out. The soreness, Dr. Thomas Fahey of Chico said, 'is completely due to muscle injury and inflammation" (Hanc 2). The muscles need to be ice in order to decrease the toxicity in the muscle and shorten the muscles so that no more tearing occurs. Stretching as stated before in the paper is good before workouts, but not good for torn muscle. For athletes that are professional, they use cool downs to slowly relax the muscle and to get the muscle use to all this work put on it. Also, "To do so, more ice will be applied, and Mr. Tomlinson gets 60 minutes of deep massage and body work" (Hanc 2). Even professional athletes uses resources like massage therapy to rub out the soreness and inflammation in the muscle to get their body back to top performance. These exercises may take some time to start the healing process of muscles, however it has been found to be the best source for recuperation.
Lactic Acid has been the rumor that has stood the test of time as the excuse to why muscles are sore after exercising. However, scientist and physiologist have come up with a new explanation that is moving forward with science. Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness has taken the individual diagnosis of the lactic acid build up (Hydrogen ions) in muscle during the workout and the immediate pain from that and tied together various symptoms to diagnose the patient. The soreness does not come from one cause it comes from various source like micro tears, inflammation and most common from eccentric workouts. Eccentric workouts, for example like running down a hill, have physically felt easier to the body while doing it. However, when individuals whether athletes or people who exercise for fun, wake up the next morning and have pain in those muscles it is because they got the most work out of the muscles contracted during the eccentric workout. The muscles show a sign 24-48 hrs later and the pain can last up to a week. For people who need to function on a daily basis this becomes an issue. Athletes need to get back to the workouts before their big events and individuals need to function without feeling pain wherever they go. Delayed onset muscle soreness it taken care and brought back to normal through massage therapy, stretching and cool downs. Coaches and physiologist use both in the clinical setting and the sports environment to gets muscles back to normal. There is no longer an argument into what causes muscle soreness. The diagnosis has been given and it is Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness.
Figure 1. 1 Myosin Head Binds to Actin and causes muscles to contract (shorten)
http://www.bms.ed.ac.uk/research/others/smaciver/Cycle.gif
Alexis Beskid
ENG 105
Long Argument
30 April 2009
