Tommy Logan
Jacki Belknap
ENG 105
21 April 2009
LET THE BIKES IN!
I have ridden BMX bicycles since I was twelve years old. BMX was an outlet where I could forget about my stresses in life. I seemed to always find the bottom end of sports. I had a passion for basketball but my friends would get bumped up to varsity while I stayed on junior varsity. In high school, I was cut from the freshman volleyball team. My skill in sports constantly seemed to be downsized whether it is from coaches or even friends. I was sick and tired of being told I wasn't good enough or having a coach or competitive friend telling me how to do something. When I was playing on sports teams, I was constantly day-dreaming about getting home, jumping on my bike, and riding into my backyard where my mind could ease on the thoughts of flying through the air.
Since I started riding BMX, I have been hooked to catching air. I started with riding little dirt humps, which then turned into jumps. I raced BMX bikes for about two years but mainly went out to the track to jump and have fun. I did compete but I grew out of racing and went back to my backyard. My intent with BMX was freestyle and going high. My crave for freestyle couldn't be taken to a skatepark. My passion isn't allowed. With my skills from racing, my friends and I built a dirt jump track that covers the half-acre of land behind my parents' house (as seen in Fig 1). This project has been going on for the past four years and never stops. It is the place where you will find me shoveling and riding with a smile on my face.
My dirt jump track has been designed to give the same type of feelings a skatepark does. I have rode countless skateparks across the state and have been kicked out, and had to flee to avoid being hassled. I have also been stared at like a criminal from numerous skaters. At one skatepark in Tucson, Arizona I was almost thrown into a fight just because I rode a bicycle. I have fought for advocating bikes in skateparks but the City Council in Tucson wouldn't cater to a BMX rider's needs. I hope through my argument you will see why BMX bicycles should be allowed into skateparks, with no questions asked.
In the 1960's skateboarding was founded to captivate the feeling of surfing on a board on land. Most skateboarders took to the streets to skate but some brave skateboarders took to empty swimming pools (Books). It was not till the 1970's when the rise of skateboarding hit as mainstream. Skateboarders learned how to perform tricks such as ollies, aerials, and grinds (as shown in Fig 2). These tricks were all learned in the facility that came to be known as: the skatepark.
A skatepark is defined as a place for skating that consists of various ramps and bowls that can be either indoors or outdoors. Skateparks are usually public and are outdoors with surfaced concrete. These parks began in the 1970's when skateboarding became more than just a fad. "The first outdoor skatepark was built for skateboarders in 1976 in Florida and was then followed by hundreds of other parks all over North America" (Books). Unfortunately, many of these parks went out of business due to insurance issues.
Although there were some problems early on, the 1990's hit skateboarding with an upward swing. The first Extreme Games (also known as the X-Games) was held and moved skateboarding into a spectator sport. Skateparks were built and gave rise to a new sport in communities. Through skate companies, clothing, and contests all over the world, skateboarding was now an industry.
Along with skateboarding came a sport known as bicycle motocross, or BMX. BMX bikes are small, 20-inch bicycles that are used for tricks (Fig 3). These bikes originated from capturing dirt biking through a bicycle. These BMX riders raced on motocross courses made of dirt (Glaser 15).
BMX, like skateboarding, went on to different forms. These riders took to the streets as well as empty pools to satisfy a new thrill. They perform stunts similar to skateboarders such as jumps, aerials, and grinds. This gave way to a new wave of BMX called Freestyle. In 1975, bike riders fled to California's first skatepark, Carlsbad Skatepark (23mag). BMX riders also crave the same freedom that skateboarders do through riding skateparks.
BMX riders also have the same popularity that skateboarders do. "The popularity of events such as the X-Games has spread to five continents. Freestyle BMX riding is one of the staples of the X-Games competition" (Gene's BMX). As professional BMX rider, Mat Hoffman says, "Despite the fact that we are the minority in the world of "Bikes, boards and blades", BMX freestyle is a rapidly growing sport and is clearly more popular than other sports that already have public facilities. According to Bicycle Retailer and Industry News, BMX bikes accounted for 30% of all bike sales in 1998. ESPN reports that bicycle stunt is the most popular X-Games sport for television viewers" (Hoffman).
Others argue that skateparks are designed exclusively for skaters. One perception is that BMX bikes cause collisions in the skateparks. The bikes also damage the skateparks through their metal pegs. Skateboarders say they need their space because they only have so many facilities they can legally use. The skatepark to them is their home ground.
There are three main points why a bike should be allowed in a public skatepark. First, bike riders simply need a place to ride. Second, bikes do not damage the skatepark in any way, and are not any more of a liability than skateboarders or rollerbladers. Third, BMX riders are athletes and deserve the same equal rights as a blade or board, and shouldn't be discriminated against. A BMX bicycle should be permitted access into skatepark facilities without question.
Bikers, like skateboarders, need a means to practice their tricks and have a meeting ground to have fun with friends. "Alternative sports such as BMX bikers and skaters also deserve access to public facilities so that they can practice and enjoy their sport just as much as participants in the traditional ball sports. With nowhere else to go, BMX riders will ride in the streets. This is certainly more dangerous than riding a skatepark and can cause damage to public and private property" (Hoffman). BMX riders must have a legal and safe way to practice their sport.
Many people have tried and are still trying to advocate for bicycle access into skateparks. One website called, SPAUSA (Skatepark Association of the United States of America), advocates the inclusion of bikes in public skateparks. "Cities should always allow bikes to use the skateparks" (SPAUSA).
The other misconception is that bikes damage the skateparks and are a bigger liability than the other action sports. It is understandable for skaters and designers to be worried about their facilities. But the problem comes when bikes are solely blamed for the damage to these facilities. BMX bikes typically have metal pegs that are used to grind benches, and quarter-pipes for example, while a skateboard uses metal trucks to grind the same structures, the question is, what's the difference? "New, well-constructed parks should not show abnormal signs of wear from BMX use. In fact, the Skate Parks Association (SPA/USA) has been conducting research on parks for several years and has not found evidence that bikes cause more damage than skateboards or inline skaters" (Bikes Belong).
Most officials use peg damage as an excuse to ban bikes. Over time a skatepark is going to show wear and tear. The normal wear and tear caused by bikes can be lessened. BMX companies offer pegs that are made of plastic and are marketed as "park-friendly." The parks sometimes require riders to rent or buy these products and some skateparks have offered their riders an incentive program for their old pegs to be traded in for park-friendly ones (Bikes Belong).
Skateparks should be held accountable for signs of damage. If the park is built right, bikes will not damage the park anymore than skateboards or rollerblades. "Protective treatments and retrofits, such as reinforced concrete or metal sheeting, can be applied to old concrete to strengthen it and hinder or stop the erosion process at old or poorly built parks" (Bikes Belong). If the park is built right, the outcome will be worth the time and money spent. Professional skatepark designers who have experience with BMX will know the needs that the park must achieve to accommodate bikes. Skatepark design is crucial to sustain damage of skaters and bikers.
Why do cities argue that bikes are a liability? A bike can go much faster than rollerblades or a skateboard, but alternatively a bike has considerably more control than the other three. A bike has brakes, handlebars, and a bigger area to maneuver around with. A bike, combined with a rider with good skatepark etiquette can easily look out for one another and avoid collisions. Skatepark liability is no more of a problem for bikes than for skateboarders or rollerbladers. "Some critics of BMX maintain that more accidents occur in parks where bikers and skaters ride together, and that these accidents tend to be more severe. However, according to a study commissioned by Portland (OR) Parks & Recreation, there's no substantial data to support this theory. In fact, many parks have seen no increase in accidents at all since they've opened their gates to BMX riders" (Bikes Belong).
City liability is definitely not the sole reason to ban bikes, and if bikes are in fact banned, they may as well ban skateparks entirely as a recreational facility. There are other steps a city can take to decrease the liability of another action sport. Safety can be addressed through BMX riders having their own separate park or separate hours within a park. Good skatepark design can also reduce the risk of a collision. Beginner riders could have a separate time to use the park and the skatepark could hold clinics for these riders (Bikes Belong). Action sports do have risks like other sports, yet many steps can be taken to allow bikes safely into the skatepark. Many states classify action sports as a hazardous activity and declare cities exempt from liability as long as they post safety requirements (Bikes Belong).
Bikes are clearly the same as a blade or board, at least regarding the skatepark issue. Imagine going to a local park and being told you can't play football because you aren't allowed, how would you feel? "Just because the term 'skatepark' doesn't have the word 'bike' in it doesn't mean bikes don't belong. 'Skatepark' has become a generic term for ramp facility, in the same way that Xerox has become a generic term for photocopies, or Kleenex for facial tissues-it's simple and easy to say" (Bikes Belong). All the action sports use the parks for the same purpose, to work towards trying new tricks and thriving off riding the same kinds of terrain. "Regardless of what the signs say, BMX riders will ride public skateparks. This is not because we want to break the law, but rather that park riding is a popular discipline in BMX and there is currently a scarcity of facilities" (Hoffman). Bike riders must not be discriminated especially in an era where discrimination is so prevalent.
Although bikes face discrimination, there are success stories. In 2007, Glendale, Arizona opened their new skatepark to bikes (seen in Fig 4). This was accomplished through hard work and skatepark advocacy all started by a man named Jason Ryan. He held protests at skateparks and advocated with other local BMX riders to get a park. "Through the sheer number of bike riders willing to come to a meeting, Glendale got the message screamed at them that their next skatepark HAD TO ALLOW BIKES" (Ryan). Through advocates like Ryan, Arizona now has six concrete parks that allow bikes.
Although there are issues to be faced, the goal of bikes being allowed into skateparks must be accomplished. Precautions can be taken like separate hours, or even a separate facility. Park pegs and proper skatepark design can lessen the damage done to a park from bikes. Liability must be addressed as it is to all other action sports; it is a hazardous activity and is done at one's own risk. Bike riding encourages exercise and activity; banning bikes moves BMX riders back to the streets where they usually damage private property and trespass on land they are not supposed to. A BMX bike should not at all be discriminated against; skateboarding, rollerblading, and BMX are alike and all can have fun together, in a joint effort. As Mike Vallely, a pro skateboarder once said, "When we were coming up my friends and I shared terrain with BMX'ers without question and welcomed anyone even remotely interested in what we were doing into our fold. Skateboarding was about acceptance. I liked it like that, I believed in it, I still do" (Vallely).
A BMX bike, to this day, is still not fully accepted in most skateparks across the states. Throughout America, bikes are blamed for false accusations and sometimes aren't very welcomed by city councils and even the police. A BMX rider should get the joy of riding a skatepark and have a place to ride legally without worry. "It is noteworthy that baseball players were once treated as criminals because they played ball in the streets. Eventually they came to be accepted by society as athletes simply doing what they love. BMX riders are no different -- we love to ride our bikes!" (Hoffman). Hopefully more cities will turn the "No bikes allowed," sign into "BMX riders welcome." The BMX bike riding community needs to come together as a whole and work toward the common goal of getting bikes allowed into every skatepark across the United States.
