Daniel Morales
English 105
Mr. Bird
April 25, 2009
Sex Education: A Must in Public Schools
Each year 950,000 teenage girls become pregnant. Of the 950,000 pregnancies, 75% of them are unplanned (Guttmacher 3). In 2005, there were approximately 1. 3 million abortions in the United States alone (Unplanned Pregnancy 2). An astonishing 9. 1 million sexually transmitted diseases are contracted[CV1] by Americans under the age of 25 each year (Mc Keon 1). It appears to be very obvious that sex is a practice that is being experimented with more and more, and the ages of those experimenting is getting younger and younger. Something needs to be done in order to change this. To begin solving this problem, sex education should be a mandatory subject of study in all public schools. Secondly, it should be based on a comprehensive sex education curriculum rather than an abstinence only curriculum. Thirdly, it needs to be taught in single sex classrooms. Sex education is a very important subject and all too often it is passed off as unnecessary, but with a sex education course in public schools being taught using the correct methods and curriculum, it will better inform young students about sex and hopefully lower the statistics pertaining to teenagers and sexual activities[CV2].
The idea of sex education first arose in 1981 when Congress passed the Adolescent Family Life Act (AFLA). This program brought into consideration the possibility of how sex education should be taught. It could either focus on only abstinence or be comprehensive. As it turns out, in 1991, 213 public school districts had a policy mandating sex education. 86% of public schools require that promotion of abstinence be taught because of the school's policies (Dialard 1). 51% require that abstinence be the number one method stressed and are allowed to teach minimal information about contraceptives (2). 35% of schools require that abstinence be the one and only method of informing the students about sex education. The instructors are not to discuss any method of protection or promote sex in any way, shape, or form. Sadly, only 14% of school districts with a sex education course are allowed to teach on both an abstinence and comprehensive level (3). This percentage is not a lot, especially when considering that this is only 14% of the schools that already have a sex education course. This statistic does not include the schools that do not even have a sex education course. Another interesting fact is that in the early 90's, teen pregnancies were high because teenagers were lacking in knowledge about sex. Shortly after sex education was introduced in schools, there was a sudden drop in teen pregnancies. This drop in teen pregnancies continued for about 15 years until in 2005 the rate began to increase by 3% (Whitehead 4). Since the efforts to properly inform students about intercourse and its risks has increased in the last decade or so, and the number of teenagers choosing to have sex has decreased (Cloyd 7). All of this information strengthens the argument that sex education in schools has full potential to change students' minds about having sex and lower the rate of teen pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases.
Sexuality education is a course that has the potential to be highly beneficial to students because it not only teaches about sex, but it informs the students on how to say no to their partners. The course also teaches the students how to have a healthy lifestyle and how to protect themselves from sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy. Some courses also remind the students, through teaching, of the students own personal beliefs and values or the beliefs and values of their family or religion (Mc Keon 14). In a study, American adults were asked about their views on sex education being taught in schools. The results showed that a stunning 89% of adults believed that sex education should be taught in schools and on a comprehensive basis as well (12). Unfortunately, 33% of schools in the United States do not have any form of sex education (Guttmacher 15). In the long run, sex education in schools has proven to lower the outrageous statistic of 9. 1 billion sexually transmitted infections per year (Mc Keon 2[CV3]).
In an abstinence only course, students are merely taught to not have sex until they are[CV4] married. In comparison, prevention of sexually transmitted diseases/infections, how to use contraceptives and birth control, abstinence options and an immense amount of information about sex are just a few of the topics covered in a comprehensive sex education course. Abstinence only courses do not teach the students what they need to know. It focuses solely on the concept of not having sex until they are married, when in fact 95% of people who walk down the aisle are not virgins (Beil 8). This course would not be beneficial to any student who had already had sex previous to the course; because of this it would not teach students on how to be safe in the future or how to properly use the many different forms of contraceptives. It is proven that an abstinence only course does not help delay the age that students begin having sex or increase the use of protection by the students (Mc Keon 1). Studies show, and as shown in the above chart, 34% of schools demand that an abstinence only course be taught to the students because they are not yet married. Along with that, most instructors are to not bring up the subject of contraceptives and if they do bring up the subject they are required to teach only about the ineffectiveness of contraceptives (Guttmacher 9). The chart[CV5] also makes it very clear exactly how many schools and students are going without any teaching about sex education at all. Yes, it is good that there are students being taught on an abstinence only level, but much more is needed for the students to fully understand.
Because of abstinence only education, 40% of students admit to not knowing about sexually transmitted diseases, how[CV6] to get and use birth control, and how to say no when they are being pressured into having sex. Another researcher, Kaiser, found similar information. She surveyed students' grades seventh through twelfth and through her research she also found students admitting to needing to know more about sex. Similarly, they were not informed on where to be tested for sexually transmitted diseases, how to obtain birth control, and how to handle to pressure of having sex (Dialard 6). So, it turns out that both the survey done by Kaiser and the statistics shown in Guttmacher's research match up exactly. This should be an eye opener for sex education instructors throughout America. This lack of information is due to the restrictions on education that abstinence only education imposes. The only advantage to having abstinence only sex education courses in public schools is that the course is state funded. In some places the abstinence only course is federally funded. Since 1996 abstinence only programs have received over one million dollars to fund their programs. Studies done by the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States show that 25 of these states that have been receiving funding for this course are now turning down the money and questioning the effectiveness of the course (Jayson 14-15). Through research done by United States Department of Health and Human Services, they have also found that 80% the information in the abstinence only curricula was false, highly misleading, and improperly conveyed. These studies done by both Guttmacher and Jayson appeal strongly to ethos because it is providing so many statistics and very factual information that will help the reader to understand the severity of the subject. Information about the effectiveness of contraceptives and the practice of abortion were falsely presented to the students, creating a huge bias in the abstinence only curricula (Mc Keon 10).
Comprehensive sex education is a much better choice for public schools to incorporate into their system. The public even backs up this argument. There are organizations all across the United States who are all for comprehensive sex education and support it 100%. Along with these organizations, the general consensus of the public is that sex education should be taught this way as well (Mc Keon 11-12). Most parents and adults are pro comprehensive sex education. In a recent survey, 94% of adults support this method of teaching, and 93% of parents support it as well. Only 15% of American adults are against comprehensive sex education and believe that abstinence only should be the only method of sex education taught in public schools (15). Unfortunately, less and less schools teach comprehensively because this method is not supported and not federally funded. The reason they will not fund it is because the curricula teaches the students about the benefits to using condoms and other contraceptives at a young age (3).
Over a time span of about thirteen years, teen pregnancy fell a dramatic 75%. Many say this was due to the increased use of contraceptives and delayed initiation of sex, which links back to the teaching of sex education comprehensively (Mc Keon 5). Comprehensive sex education has also shown, through studies, that students delay the age at which they start having sex. Also shown in the survey is that how often a student chooses to have sex is less because of a comprehensive sex education course. How many partners a student chooses to have and the increase in the use of protection and contraceptives have also been linked to the teaching of comprehensive sex education in public schools. Because of these positive outcomes of comprehensive sex education we also see positive outcomes in the rates of sexually transmitted diseases and teenagers pregnancy rates, which have lowered primarily because of increased sex education in schools (2).
Sex education in public schools can also have its downsides[CV7]. For instance, because comprehensive sex education is not federally funded, the school district would have to come up with the money to fund the class and the pay the instructor. This may be a big dilemma for certain districts. Some also believe that sex education would not be helpful to the young women who already have it set in their minds that they want to have children at young ages. In this day and age, "baby mamas" are popular and a hit to the public eye. There are also celebrities who are becoming pregnant at young ages and they receive lots of attention. Some girls may think that by having a child at a young age they will be able to have similar kinds of attention. With this mindset, sex education would just merely be a class they went and sat in and paid no attention to. So, the media today could very well be a reason why sex education would not be as helpful (Whitehead 7). Other parents may be worried that since their teenage student knows how to be safe, they will choose to have sex rather than remain abstinent.
Certain organizations such as The National Abstinence Education Association, believe that the parents should be the primary sex education provider and that schools should not be required to inform the students about sex themselves (Jayson 19). The major down fall to this, though, is that no one can guarantee that parents are talking to their children[CV8] about sex, which is why the school should be there to do it for them. "A lot of times, parents just don't want to deal with the situation -- 'the talk' or whatever," says high school senior Mc Cleod. "They truly believe the best sex education is at school. That's not the case in schools that I know. That's not the case at all." (22). some parents rely on the school to have that talk with their children for them. Whether it is because the parents do not have the time to talk to their children or maybe because the parents, as children growing up, were not educated about sex, someone needs to ensure that teenagers today are aware of all the risks and safety precautions of having sex [CV9](12).
Sex is a very mature subject and as most of us know, not all high school students will approach it in a mature matter. A possible solution to this problem would be incorporate single sex education classroom learning environments. This mean the boys and girls will be separated for this course only in order for the students to act more maturely about the information being taught. Studies were done at two Catholic high schools, one being single sex education and the other being co-educational. At the single sex educational school this learning environment proved to be two times more effective than at the school that was co-educational (Rigdon 7). Studies also show that females perform much better in segregated courses (1). There are fewer distractions caused by good-looking student walking into the classroom, and neither gender has to worry about looking their best to impress someone. The students will be surrounded by only those of their same sex, which has the potential to increase the students' focus on the information being taught. Single-sex learning environments are much more effective and with such an important course, this would be a smart move for the school district to make.
Although one may believe that single-sex classrooms would be more effective there are others who support the other end of the spectrum. For instance, if a school chose to have segregated classes for their sex education course, they would also need both a male and female teacher. For a school with financial problems, this would only create even more money issues. Also, according to neuroscience researcher, Lise Eliot, boys and girls have a lot to learn from and about each other (Eliot 13). She proves that even though the classroom may be segregated, the brain is not. The brain does not hear, remember, see, or calculate any differently based on what gender of students one is surrounded by. So among other small issues, there are legitimate reasons why single-sex education learning environments may not benefit all students.
Another possibility that may be an easier way to incorporate sex education in schools is to add it into required science classes[CV10]. Every school requires at least one year of science. By having this, the school will not have to fund a new teacher or bring in an entirely new curriculum. Since every student would have to take science they would be, in a way, killing two birds with one stone and getting educated about science and also about sex at the same time. Another pro to this is that the students will not be required to take on a whole new class, instead both subjects will be taught in one classroom, lessening the work load. A big disadvantage to this idea is that it would be nearly impossible to have these science/sex education classes to be single sex which takes away from some of the learning. Another disadvantage may be time. Some science classes are very time consuming and it may be hard to just add in more information on top of the already busy curriculum. With some simple adjusting it is very possible and a great idea to help schools who are facing financial struggles. The science teachers may be upset about having to teach more than one subject, but they are being paid to teach, and it is a simple and much needed task to be done.
In President Bush's opinion sex education on an abstinence only basis should be taught in schools. He showed his support by giving one billion dollars to fund this curriculum in schools. This is a very large amount of money to put towards a curriculum that has yet to show any dramatic changes in the number of teenage pregnancies. Luckily for America, there is hope with President Elect Obama who is all for comprehensive sex education (Beil 2). So, American's can only hope that he put his funding for schools to teach a comprehensive sex education course.
Sex is popular, but like any other popular "activity" there are pros and cons. In order to know these pros and cons one must know as much about the subject as possible which is why comprehensive sex education in single-sex classrooms is the best way to convey this information. Many studies have proved comprehensive sex education to notably lower the rapidly growing pregnancy and sexually transmitted disease rates. Now all we need is the government to support the school districts so the students can be informed about sex in the best way possible[CV11].
Reflection: I chose this topic because it is becoming more important as more and more young people are starting to have sex. While you can't make people stop, you can educate them so at least they will make smarter decisions. I remember how it was for some of my friends who didn't have any sex education at their school; they had no idea of some things others think of as common knowledge about sex.
