Leah Orth
Belknap
English 105
April 21, 2009
Women in Men's Sports
Is it fair that women are discriminated against in sports because they are not "men"? Women have dealt with many gender issues in society, careers, responsibilities, and many other activities. An example would be competing for men's jobs. As a whole, women have been given more credibility as time progresses. There are still many problems that have not been addressed formally in women's rights. Women want to establish the same level men are viewed as in society. Women are more likely to go after men's jobs in today's future just like they are willing to participate in sports that are male dominate. In high school young ladies are starting to realize they have an interest in playing football, baseball, or hockey. There is not a girl's football team in high school or a baseball team. High schools usually have softball for the girls but some girls are training at a higher level. After high school, college sports deal with the same issues but have a wider variety of sports and at a more competitive level. In college the sports that are usually gender specific are hockey, football, and baseball. The last level would be professional sports as in the National Football League (NFL), National Hockey League (NHL), and Major League Baseball (MLB). Many men's professional sports leagues do not have women equivalents. There are reasons why the United States has decided not to create a women's equivalent for many sports, regardless, that does not make it right to ban women from participating at the professional level with men. Aside from the physical aspect of the issue there are many psychological issues to deal with as well.
When a person is raised the parents are usually persistent on getting their children to play sports. When the children are entered in the sport it is usually based off of gender and age. The girls play with girls and boys play with boys of their own age group. Some programs do incorporate coed sports for the younger community but it is rare. For instance t-ball is a sport that both girls and boys play together. In the sports when children are playing together the girls usually get the most criticism from the coaches and parents (Clark). This is a reason why so many girls end up quitting sports and getting into negative lifestyles.
