Corder 7
Jordan Corder
Michele Beier
April 28, 2009
English 105
A Fresh Prospective on Lowering the Drinking Age
It is a quiet Thursday evening, and suddenly you get a phone call saying that a loved one was killed by a drunk driver. Emotions of shock, anger, and anguish fill your body as you blame the driver. Is it the driver that should be blamed or the society that has failed to teach the driver how to respect alcohol and know their limit? We as people, have values about alcohol instilled in us from our culture and society at a very young age. Most European societies have a very casual conception of alcohol, but here in the United States it is another story. As of 1984, the National Drinking Age Minimum Act was put in to action, where the drinking age limit in the U.S. was changed from eighteen to twenty-one years of age. There have since been very strong opinions on both sides of the argument. Programs like Mothers Against Drunk Driving and Students Against Drunk Driving have been established to discourage young people from drinking and driving and promote a high drinking age. On the other hand there are also many people who protest for a lower drinking age like the rest of the world. I am going to argue the positives of lowering the drinking age, then the positives of having such a high drinking age, and finally I will argue my solution to the situation.
Many countries have a lower drinking age than the United States. If other countries have a low drinking age, then the United States should also have a low drinking age because we are just as technologically, economically, and socially advanced or even more advanced than other countries. According to an article by Alcohol drinking and solutions, "The legal drinking age for different countries varies dramatically, from 0 to 21, as seen in the table below. The United States has the highest drinking age in the world" (Alcohol Problems and Solutions). There is no physiological difference between people living in America and people living in across the world, but America still has the highest drinking age limit. In China, ".there is no minimum drinking age; Germany, France, Spain, and Greece have an age limit of 16; Mexico, Sweden, Canada, Australia, Russia, and the United Kingdom have an age limit of 18" (Alcohol Problems and Solutions). A child in China could legally drink at five years old if they wanted, but someone four times their age in the United States could not. There is no reason that the United States should not have a low drinking age like the rest of the world.
Some people believe that lowering the drinking age will cause more accidents; however, the primary cause of accidents is binge drinking, and if alcohol is readily available, then people would not drink so much at one time. Teens Health states binge drinking as, ".the consumption of five or more drinks in a row by men - or four or more drinks in a row by women - at least once in the previous 2 weeks. Heavy binge drinking includes three or more such episodes in 2 weeks" (Teens Health). Many teens consume their alcohol by binge drinking rather than casual drinking. In fact, one study reported that, "About 90% of the alcohol consumed by youth under the age of 21 years in the United States is in the form of binge drinks" (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). If we can successfully lower the drinking age, then eighteen year olds will not have to consume all their alcohol at once by binge drinking because the alcohol will always be available. Availability of alcohol to eighteen to twenty year olds will cause a complete turnaround in our society about the values of alcohol. Drinking will become more of casual pastime as availability increases.
In today's society there are unfortunate situations involving alcohol, but if we teach minors how to handle their alcohol then those things would not happen. We cannot have this all or none approach to teaching minors. In the U.S. we have a zero tolerance attitude towards minors drinking, where it is illegal if any amount of alcohol is found in their bodies even if it is under .08. Sadly, schools across the U.S. also advocate a zero tolerance approach to teaching the students of our country about alcohol; Carter Loar had to learn the hard way about school policy.
'Carter Loar, a high school senior at Park View High School in Loudoun County, Virginia, was suspended ten days for violating the school's alcohol policy. Mr. Loar's violation? Using mouthwash on campus. School officials confiscated the contraband and "He was charged with violating the school's alcohol policy which prohibits the possession or use of alcohol on school property. As part of this ten day suspension, Mr. Loar was required to attend a three day Substance Abuse Program sponsored by Loudoun County" (Alcohol Problems and Solutions).
The punishment for the action of using mouthwash on campus was alarmingly too harsh. If we took an approach like other countries the teens of our countries would treat alcohol with more respect. Most European cultures, ".introduce alcohol to their children within the protective and supportive environment of the home, we ignore their successful example by denying children meaningful alcohol education in the false belief that young people can't handle alcohol" (Alcohol Problems and Solutions). The minors of America are ready to start having more responsibility in regards to consuming and being involved with alcohol.
Another reason to lower the drinking age is that at eighteen, people are considered adults and attain many rights, but still are not allowed to drink. People at eighteen should be able to consume alcohol because they are legally an adult and make decision for themselves. Megan Baker points out that, "Once you turn 18, you can vote in elections. You can go overseas and die for your country. You are also allowed to serve on a jury. There are also plenty of Americans out there under the age of 21 who are married and have children" (St. Fisher College). There is no reason that eighteen year olds should not also get the same rights as twenty-one year olds. Figure 1 represents the voices of eighteen year olds across the nation. Since we gain more legal rights as grow older and people at eighteen can put their lives in danger by fighting for their country but not drink; our government is basically saying that we can handle death but not alcohol. Surely, many people at eighteen could handle their alcohol before fatality.
By lowering the drinking age, it will take a lot of stress off the government, because the law enforcement will not have to be so strict on situations involving alcohol like supplying alcohol to minors, consumption, possession, and purchase of alcohol. In addition, "The consequences of underage drinking are a tremendous expense to the U.S. economy and total more than $53 billion per year, by far the most costly of all drug problems" (Drug Rehabs.org). If we lowered the drinking age, then we would not have to spend money on enforcing underage drinking. Also, if we lower the drinking age then there will be more consumers which will be better for the economy. So the economy can improve by lowering the drinking age to eighteen, because the government will save money by not enforcing to as many people and businesses will have more of a profit by having more consumers. In addition, the government would not have to spend as much money on anti-drinking commercials or programs. As a result of lowering the drinking age, the government would not have to spend the billions of dollars they do now, and may actually make money or not be as far in debt. Our economic recession needs help, lowering the drinking age could be that solution.
On the opposite side of the spectrum there are many positives to having a high drinking age. In many other countries there is a low drinking age, but the main source of transportation is not by motor vehicle. We have such a high drinking age limit because so many people drive in America, and drinking and driving causes accidents. If we lower the drinking age, there will be more accidents and DUI's because alcohol impairs your judgment and ability to operate a vehicle. If we lower the drinking age to 18, then those people will only have experience driving for two years; unlike Twenty-one year olds who have had five years of experience driving. Also, studies have shown that,
"Starting to drink at an earlier age is associated with greater odds of experiencing motor vehicle crash involvement, unintentional injuries, and physical fights when respondents were drinking, but less so when respondents had not been drinking. These findings reinforce the need for programs and policies to delay drinking onset" (Erika M. Edwards).
We should not lower the drinking age, because the consequences of drinking and driving are too great. Look at Jacqueline in Figure 2 who was hit by a drunk driver and burned sixty percent of her body. It is not fair to Jacqueline to live her whole life with physical disfigurement, because a drunk driver did not know their limits. It is up to us to protect ourselves, our loved ones, and our society by not supporting lowering the drinking age and drunk driving.
Having a high drinking age is trying to protect minors from being victims of crimes like rape, alcohol poisoning, suffocation, and teen pregnancy. People are more likely to commit these crimes or be victims of these crimes if alcohol is involved. People are so young at eighteen and have the rest of their life ahead of them; they should not be subjected to such dreadful situations. It is commonly known that, ".alcohol use in adolescence is associated with a wide array of negative consequences Stueve and O'Donnell, 2005 A. Stueve and L.N. O'Donnell, Early alcohol initiation and subsequent sexual and alcohol risk behaviors among urban youths, American Journal of Public Health 95 (2005), pp. 887-893. Full Text via Cross Ref | View Record in Scopus Cited By in Scopus (27)such as adolescent injuries, drinking and driving and an increased rate of other risk behaviors, including sexual activity, violence and drug use"( Mary O. Hearst). If we keep the drinking age high, then less people will have to be in those unpleasant situations.
Statistics have shown that people do not fully develop their frontal lobe till they are twenty-one years of age, so they do not have the all of the components to good decision making. Studies have proven that, ". brain development is still ongoing throughout the teen years until the mid-20's, [and] teen drinking may lead to significant and lasting health problems" (The Fresh Story). It is unwise to damage the brain by drinking alcohol when the brain is not fully developed. The frontal lobe coordinates the functions of higher thinking, decision making, and many other critical operations. Damages to this area before it is developed could have long-term effects. If we lower the drinking age, then young people will not have the same opportunity to develop their brain size as when the drinking limit is twenty-one years of age.
Studies have shown that drinking at a young age will cause the person to be an alcoholic when they are older, and there are many long term effects of alcohol that put strains on the body. Studies have shown that, "Chronic excessive alcohol intake results in alcohol-related brain damage. Many previous reports have documented alcohol-related global or local brain shrinkage or diffusional abnormalities among alcoholics and heavy to moderate drinkers." (Osamu Abe) Injuries to the brain are extremely serious, because brain neurons do not undergo mitosis. In other words, you do not grow more brain cells after you destroy them. In other cases, "In vivo MRI analysis using regions of interest (ROI) documented regional gray and white matter volume abnormalities, particularly involving the frontal lobe." (Osamu Abe) The function of the frontal lobe is to make decisions and is the primary portion of the brain used for higher thinking. However, not only the brain is affected; alcohol consumption puts a major strain on the liver. In the United Kingdom, ".liver deaths are a result of daily or near-daily heavy drinking, not episodic or binge drinking, and this regular drinking pattern is often discernable at an early age" (Lesley Burgoyne). The only way to prevent these negative affects to the body is to keep the drinking age high so that young people are discouraged from starting this addiction early on, and to prevent chronic illness.
Many people believe that drinking age should either be one extreme of a too high or too low age limit, but I think the best solution is to have a happy medium. We can teach minors about the effects of alcohol in a much more influential way, by creating a drinking permit. This permit will be available to U.S. citizens eighteen to twenty years of age. With this permit the person may be in the presence of alcohol and consume alcohol, but only purchase it when with a person who is twenty-one years or older. The distribution of alcohol to minors law, where people of twenty-one years of age or older are not allowed to buy minors alcohol, would not apply to people with the permit, because with the permit they are no longer considered minors. So an eighteen year old would be able to go to a liquor store with his or her parent or anyone over the age of twenty-one, purchase the alcohol. In the same respect it would apply to eighteen year olds going to a bar or a restaurant with a twenty-one year old or parent and buying a drink of alcohol. This will allow for a safe controlled environment for people to learn their personal drinking limits of alcohol. This plan would please parents because the eighteen year olds could learn their limit at home, instead of drinking too much and passing out at a party or getting alcohol poisoning. However, there are some restrictions if a person is caught drinking and driving with a blood alcohol content of more than . 08 which is the legal limit, they will have their permit suspended and possibly their driver's license suspended depending on the severity of the offense. There may also be more driving restrictions implemented to show that it is not acceptable to drink and drive. I do not expect that this permit idea will last forever, but I hope it will be the stepping stone that America needs.
Figure 1. Figure 2.
