Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research:
A Cure for the Incurable
David Mc Neill
ENG 105
Christopher Reeve, one of history's most passionate supporters of stem cell research once said, "We live in a time when the words impossible and unsolvable are no longer part of the scientific community's vocabulary. Each day we move closer to trials that will not just minimize the symptoms of disease and injury but eliminate them." (Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation, 2009). Mr. Reeve was referring to the hope posed by a branch of research that scientists have been advocating in the face of much scrutiny and with little support for the past 30 or so years. There are many human health conditions characterised by irreversible damage to certain cells, in which the cells are unable to repair or regrow. Advancements in surgical and drug technologies have certainly led to a better quality of life and a longer life expectancy for much of the western world. Yet drugs and rehabilitation do not offer a cure for people born with diabetes, people that are genetically predisposed to cardiovascular disease, or people suffering from spinal cord injuries, as Christopher Reeve did. Human embryonic stem cell (h ESC) research does however, offer such hope. The research is aimed at determining the behaviour of the earliest cells of the human organism, that give rise to all other types of cells. Developing an understanding of these cells would provide the basis for propagating specific types of cells for use in what Okarma calls "regenerative medicine", replacing a degenerative tissue with new healthy cells propagated from stem cells (according to Holland, Lebacqz & Zoloth, 2002). The scrutiny that advocates of this research have faced is based on the ethical concern over the origin of these embryonic stem cells - the human embryo. Many moralists and ethicists contend that the embryo represents the beginning of human life, and that in obtaining the h ESC, the potential for human life is destroyed (Mehlman, 2005). In the face of such scrutiny, the research has not been able to develop enough momentum upon which all the discoveries made so far can be further developed and materialise into working treatments. This essay argues that h ESC research should be fully supported in light of the overwhelming evidence for its potential for treating and better understanding normal and abnormal biology within the human species.
From a moral standpoint, the precedent set by society's general acceptance of other related scientific research paths should give merit to research on h ESCs. Many morally driven groups such as the Catholic Church have held great influence over many political agendas. They contend that h ESC research represents the destruction of a human life and is in serious conflict with what Doerflinger refers to as the "moral status of the human embryo" (according to Mehlman, 2005). As such, during the Bush Administration, federal funding for the research was banned (Rowbotham, 2009). Yet in the 30 year time period since in vitro fertilisation (IVF) research began, funding has been maintained, and the same research methods and techniques proposed for h ESC research have been used without scrutiny. All that separates IVF and h ESC research is the target beneficiaries; IVF stands to support new life, while h ESC research stands to support existing life. One cannot logically support one and not the other. In the pursuit of improving IVF technologies, scientists have necessarily taken embryos for research to examine the properties that facilitate their growth into human beings. As one of the original pioneers of IVF technology, R.G. Edwards contends that h ESC research has "in fact been part and parcel of human in vitro fertilisation from as long ago as 1962" (Edwards, 2001). Just as h ESC research represents both a field of research and a potential field of treatment in the form of regenerative medicine, IVF has undergone a similar fate. IVF was once too a field of research, in which embryos were sacrificed in pursuit of understanding their value in treating infertility. By supporting IVF in favour of supporting h ESC research, society faces an anomaly. If both practises offer hope of new life or restoring an existing life, on what basis is one form of human life more important than the other? In both regenerative medicine and IVF treatment, the same questionable research practises both offer a new chance at life. Such a chance is surely in line with the "moral status of the human embryo" - an entity of new life.
Further fuelling the ethical argument for the research in line with the acceptance of IVF is that IVF procedures currently necessitate that many hundreds of spare embryos are propagated in order for a successful pregnancy to occur. Those propagated embryos that are left over following a successful pregnancy face one of two possible fates. They can be discarded, or in the case of support for h ESC research, they can be donated to the research cause. If such embryos are to be discarded and necessarily sacrificed at the hands of the single embryo that is successfully impregnated, in what way does discarding spare embryos represent a greater respect for the sanctity of human life than actually using the contained stem cells for the purpose of developing hope in the field of regenerative medicine? And in extracting these stem cells, what indeed is being sacrificed? If a left over IVF embryo is to be used for the purposes of the proposed research, all that is really being destroyed is an outer layer of the embryo's cells that, under the right conditions, form the placenta when impregnated (Holland et al, 2002). But in embryos that are deemed "spare" after successful IVF treatment, the destruction of these outer cells cannot constitute a sacrifice beyond what is already necessitated for IVF treatment protocols (i.e. producing many excess embryos). If the embryo is no longer required for fertilisation, the outer placenta cells serve no purpose. But this does not mean the inner stem cells cannot. Gilbert (2004), in his article addressing ethically sound protocols for responsible h ESC research, contends that spare IVF embryos alone would provide more than enough h ESCs for the research to develop. Furthermore, it would ensure no more embryos be destroyed than those that are left over from IVF treatments. This would lessen the ethical impact of the research by ensuring the embryos from which the stem cells are extracted would be serving absolutely no other purpose than to be discarded. Accepting the research on the basis of the source of these stem cells has no greater ethical impact on society than the impact already dictated by IVF protocols.
And while it is possible to justify the research on ethical and moral grounds dictated by precedent, it is ultimately the government that dictates the direction in which progress is made. President Obama's recent signing of an executive order to lift the ban on federal funding of h ESC research in the United States on March 9th, 2009 illustrates a positive example of facilitating promising and meaningful progress to improving the quality of life through medicine and science. In his public address on the day of the signing, President Obama stated that "When government fails to make these investments, opportunities are missed. Promising avenues go unexplored." (Obama, 2009) This point illustrates exactly what ethical and moral conservatism has done to halt progress. His address illustrated a number of important considerations for supporting the research. Obama outlined a belief that the intrinsic moral and scientific values of the research can in fact go hand in hand, and should not be treated as issues at odds with each other - that in pursing the research, we have "the humanity and conscience to do so responsibly." Despite the ethical and moral complicity of the research, it does not mean the research need be pursued at the expense of respect and dignity for the moral values demanded by the embryo. Obama outlined the strict guidelines under which the research will be monitored. These guidelines prevent h ESCs being obtained from any source other than those embryos originally intended for reproductive purposes, but that are no longer needed for that purpose. They exclude the acquisition of stem cells from aborted fetuses, and prohibit the use of any stem cells for the purpose of reproductive cloning. These guidelines were recently drafted by the National Institute of Health (NIH) and offered up to the public for comment and critique (Kington, 2009). The guidelines are testament to the harmony of ethical and scientific progress. The guidelines ensure funding for the research will be limited to h ESCs obtained from left over IVF embryos, and that informed consent is acquired from those couples who donate these spare embryos. This executive order is an illustration on the government's part that scientific progress in the field of h ESC research and the untapped field of regenerative medicine can indeed occur with an underlying concern for the ethical values at hand. In his address on the day of the order being signed, Obama noted that "many thoughtful and decent people are conflicted about, or strongly oppose, this research." This acknowledgement represents a continued concern for the fine moral line that we tread in exploring these new avenues. But as with so many prospects of progress, there are inherent risks. Yet with any risks, there must be prospect of reward. In the case of h ESC research, as Obama puts it, the prospect of "seeking a day when words like "terminal" and "incurable" are potentially retired from our vocabulary" is a great hope. Such hope is a just reward for the risk we invest in the research.
One particular condition for which much hope lies in h ESC research is cardiovascular disease, the world's leading cause of death (Zhang & Pasumarthi, 2008). Cardiovascular disease, which is disease or degeneration of the heart, is characterised in all forms (resulting from stress, old age, a genetic predisposition, etc.) by the replacement of damaged heart muscle cells (called cardiomyocytes) with scar tissue instead of new cardiomyocytes. This pattern of replacement with scar tissue instead of new cardiomyocytes is characteristic of degeneration - where function is permanently lost. The presence of scar tissue decreases the heart's ability to function properly, which helps explain why cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death across the globe. However, in their review of cardiovascular treatment models, Zhang & Pasumarthi (2009) contend that the use of h ESC transplantation to damaged heart tissue shows significant promise in reversing myocardial degeneration and improving heart function in damaged models. This contention is based on various laboratory studies in which both fetal cardiomyocytes and cardiomyocytes derived from h ESCs have successfully been incorporated into laboratory models of diseased hearts and have shown promising regenerative results. Like so many medical and scientific discoveries, the prospect of improving the prognosis for a population of people is generally reason enough for funding to be warranted and the research to be further developed. For a condition such as cardiovascular disease, the prognosis is worse than for any other condition faced by the human species. Therefore, is there not some sort of moral responsibility to address a treatment protocol for which there is much promise at reducing the mortality rate? And if the protocol for further developing that research involves the use of stem cells obtained from an embryo destined to otherwise be discarded, what harm is done? It would seem more appropriate that the stem cells of spare IVF embryos be researched in the hope of finding a cure for cardiovascular disease, rather than be discarded to serve no greater purpose.
Indeed, the purpose such a stem cell may serve reaches far beyond that of cardiovascular medicine. For people like Christopher Reeve, the research offers the prospect of regrowing neural tissue, which, like cardiomyocytes, are unable to regrow once damaged. Kim & de Vellis (2009) report on a collection of promising studies addressing the use h ESCs for propagation of neural cells for transplantation in the treatment of conditions such as Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury and Alzheimer's disease. The breadth of possibility offered by this research gives rise to two questions. The more obvious question is, given the prospect of revolutionising the way in which diseases are treated and the possibility of curing the incurable, what is it that we are sacrificing? And if it is the embryo we are sacrificing, then is this really a sacrifice, or is it in fact the noble use of knowledge and resource? While an embryo has the potential for growing into a human being, it cannot do so without first a mother to facilitate that growth of the embryo. Since the embryos in question are spare embryos, not destined for implantation in a mother, then there use cannot be construed as the destruction of a human life. Rather, the stem cells extracted from the embryo offers hope of saving lives - perhaps the life of such an influential person as Christopher Reeve was. The breadth of possibility posed by the research for both fighting disease and better understanding human biology are well evidenced. This evidence should be considered when assessing what we are sacrificing, and whether the chance at saving countless lives is really a sacrifice.
The basis for opposing the research is not however limited to ethical and moral sacrifice. A common belief is that alternative research paths such as induced pluripotent stem cell (i PSC) research hold the same answers and hope that h ESC research does, without all the ethical and moral complicity. This belief certainly played a part in President Bush's outlawing of funding for h ESC research in favour of funding alternative stem cell research pathways over the past eight years (Hyun, Hochedlinger, Jaenisch & Yamanaka, 2007). The idea of these research pathways providing an "alternative" is however a false assumption. i PSC research, which takes normal cells such as skin cells and reprograms them to behave like embryonic stem cells, has gained the reputation as being a viable alternative to the use of h ESC for research and regenerative medicine practises. Yet this assumption fails to recognise that the use of i PS cells is based on the understanding of how h ES cells work. Thus far, this understanding of h ESC is still very much in the preliminary stages. How could we possibly rely on a concept that is based on another field for which we still do not fully understand? As Hyun et al. (2007) reveal in their review of i PSC technologies, not only is it based on a science we still do not fully understand, but the means for inducing the properties of h ESC in non-stem cells has been shown to induce cancer in 20% of mice models. This of course raises another concern, that all the proposed benefits of i PSC have only been demonstrated in animal models so far. It is uncertain whether human cells would be capable of having embryonic stem cell properties induced in them, let alone without the implication of tumours or other deadly mutations developing. Attempts at finding the answers and potentials for regenerative medicine in i PSC research and other alternatives such as adult stem cell research only highlights the reality that h ESC research is only in its developing stages and has much work for its potential to become reality. There would certainly be a place for i PSC and adult stem cell research in the future, but their efficacy is based on a thorough understanding of their predecessor - the h ESC. i PSC and adult stem cell research are therefore, not so much alternatives, but rather future protocols that could support h ESC research. They do not provide an alternative for which ethical and moral complicity can be avoided. There are safe, thoughtful and responsible means for undertaking h ESC research. Replacing it with i PSC research does not represent a safe alternative. Without safety, it is also inherently unethical to support in place of the safer research on h ESC.
If h ESC research can proceed in a safe and thoughtful manner, what precisely does it represent? What is the value in advocating support for it? Well, it represents a moral responsibility; a responsibility to explore the possibility of treating degenerative diseases, and a responsibility to build a better understanding of how humans develop and where problems in human development arise. Through Christopher Reeve's influence and leadership, it is apparent why such responsibilities should be embraced. How a society functions is dictated by the behaviour of society's members. The implications of saving a life are numerous. Saving lives provides opportunity, and opportunity offers a means for progress being made; progress in science, progress in medicine, progress in politics, progress in technology - to name a few. The opportunity to explore the h ESC represents such an opportunity. We open the door to saving the life's of people like Christopher Reeve, so that the cycle of influence, change, and progress can continue to bring the human race through the times. h ESC research and regenerative medicine represent fields of health care that are yet to be fully explored. Using cells instead of drugs to treat a disease represents unchartered territory in terms of health care. The goal of health care research is always developing new and more effective treatment protocols. When something like stem cell research reveals itself, the opportunity must be taken. And given the concept of using cells to treat disease is a new one, such research needs to occur unperturbed. Funding needs to be appropriately distributed. Alternatives cannot be advocated before we understand the fundamental properties of the h ESC, upon which all these alternatives are based. We cannot replace something without first understanding exactly what it is we want to replace. There currently is no replacement for h ESCs, and there is no replacement for the hope of curing the incurable.
