Starkweather 9
Luke Starkweather
Kacie Beagan
5/29/2009
Bigfoot
Somewhere out there, there is a creature; a creature known as Bigfoot. It is the most legendary of all the monsters called cryptids. Sightings of Bigfoot and its kin have been reported around almost the entire world. The scientific community must set aside their unwillingness to consider the possibility that the animal known as Bigfoot does exist and that many of the sightings of it are legitimate. There isn't enough evidence to simply dismiss the beast as a myth.
Bigfoot is known by many names. These include Skookum, Sasquatch, The Yowie (in Australia), and the Mountain Devil. The creature has been sighted by humans for many centuries. There are Indian legends of the creature that live even to this day. Paintings of a tall hairy ape haunt the walls of previously inhabited caves. Some legends say that the creature is more of a divine being. It is said to watch over the tribes like a kind of big brother. Other Indian tribes believe he is a messenger. They say that his current hairy form represents a coming famine. While these legends are fascinating, the fact of the matter is, Bigfoot is widely accepted as a more earthly creature. Bigfoot is an ape or rather; a group of apes, said to most resemble a gorilla. It is bipedal and covered in dense fur ranging from brown to black. Some sightings report albino versions of the creature. The height of these beasts ranges anywhere from seven to eight feet. It is estimated that they vary greatly in weight, the smallest weighing five hundred pounds and the largest weighing one thousand pounds. It has leathery skin, just like a gorilla only the creature usually has longer hair. Its eyes are said to be highly reflective which is why they appear red when caught in the headlights of vehicles.
Hundreds of new species are discovered every year. Science has documented about two million species. Experts agree that there are around eight million undiscovered species. Why should bigfoot not be counted among these? After all, the creature has been sighted since 1811 (Beets 2004). It would stand to reason that it be entered into the zoological annals. An example of a species thought not to exist would be the Platypus. When people first reported finding the platypus, the animal was believed to be a hoax. At first glance, the platypus is less believable than Bigfoot. First of all, it is a mammal that lays eggs and has a poisonous stinger on its hind leg. The animal also possesses an electro sensitive beak for finding crayfish. These features, coupled with its strange appearance made the animal thoroughly unbelievable. However, the platypus is a real animal and modern biology recognizes it as thus. However, science refuses to accept Bigfoot into their records. To further this point, some experts believe Bigfoot to be a relative of the giant prehistoric ape, Gigantopithecus. This animal lived in prehistoric times and closely resembled the description of Bigfoot. This animal is thought to be extinct; however, it is possible that there are small populations of the animal distributed around the world. (Dir, 2003) A good example of an animal thought to be extinct would be the coelacanth. It is a fish that was thought to have become extinct at the end of the cretaceous period over sixty-five million years ago. It is a very primitive fish, possessing four paddle-like side fins and a very simple tail. In 1938, a fisherman caught a fish that was a perfect match for a coelacanth. In fact, the animal was proven by scientists to be a coelacanth. It was healthy and living well. The only difference about this creature was that it lived in deeper water than the ones in the cretaceous. This was the reason for the creature not being discovered sooner. It turns out that the coelacanths live in groups throughout the oceans. The same is most likely true of Sasquatch on the land. Although they may not be Gigantopithecus, the creatures may be an extant relative.
There have been many sightings of the creature known as bigfoot around the world. Many of these sightings come from average people who would have nothing to gain by lying to the public. Most of these sightings occurred in fairly remote locations. All of the sightings were very consistent with each other. They usually involved a night time encounter with what was described as a large hominid with red eyes and a massive stride. Almost all sightings of the creature occur at night. A good example of a sighting occurred in Oklahoma. It was submitted by a Raccoon hunter and investigated by the Texas Research Conservancy, a reputable organization.
"A friend and I went coon hunting along the banks of the North Canadian River, just north of El Reno, OK in the fall of 1970. We parked just east of the Foreman Road bridge, along the south river bank. This dirt trail was between a field and the river. People would come go there to dump trash. There was a full moon and some snow on the ground. It was about 2: 00 am when we decided to head home. We were sitting in the vehicle drinking some coffee, trying to warm up, when I spotted a skunk walking towards our car. I got out of the car and was taking aim when the hairs on the back of my neck started to stand straight up. It felt like something was not right. I looked over my right shoulder towards the bank of the river and saw a large shadow behind a fallen trunk. I looked towards the moon to see if I could figure out what was casting the shadow when I saw a large, red eye appear, then another. The only artificial light was from the dome light of the car. The full moon was to my left as I was facing west.
I remember looking over my left shoulder up at the moon to see what could be casting the shadow after looking over my right shoulder at the figure. Between the full moon and snow on the ground, visibility was real good. As I was looking at the eyes, the first thought that came to me was that I was looking at two reflectors that had been nailed to the tree trunk. The eyes blinked and then I called for my friend to come and take a look. I pointed towards the shadow as my friend was getting out. About that time, the shadow slid off the bank down towards the river bed. It sounded like something as big as an ice box had been rolled into the river. We watched as a tall, upright animal ran in a zig zag pattern from sand bar to sand bar towards the west. We just stood there with our jaws hanging open. We decided not to tell anyone about what had happened. A short time later, an incident occurred west of where I had my encounter. The local news labelled that incident the "El Reno Chicken Man". The location was on the south bank of the North Canadian River, on the west side of the old Highway 81 Bridge. "
The man's encounter is consistent with many of the other reports of the creature. Everything from the red, reflective eyes, to the fast gait of the animal matches other encounters. According to the investigator, the hunter was correct about the weather conditions of the night. He also investigated the man's background and felt that his statement was legitimate.
Not all encounters with the creature are visual. Bigfoot witnesses say he is accompanied by a foul smell, very loud footsteps, and an overwhelming sense of uneasiness. Since bigfoot is similar to a gorilla, it would make sense that he would produce a foul odor when near humans. Gorillas, especially males, are known to release a terrible odor when frightened. Skeptics say that bears also possess an unpleasant odor. The smell described by reputable witnesses is far too overpowering to be that of a bear. Dr. Fahrenbach, a biologist, argues about how we humans may be even more susceptive to this particular odor. He talks about how primates can connect with each other using pheromones. Humans are primates just like gorillas and Bigfoot. It is very scientifically possible that we can detect these pheromones from Bigfoot and that they affect us on a stronger level than the odors of other animals. And if Bigfoot does produce these odors when agitated, it stands to reason that it would secrete them a lot when around humans. Just as humans are frightened by the strange and unknown in the dark, Bigfoot is most likely wary of us.
Upon the point of the loud footsteps, it can be argued that animals like wolves, bears, or deer can move silently through the woods, especially aware of the presence of humans. Deer are sure footed and can move silently. Wolves are light and agile and easily avoid auditory detection by humans. Bears, although they snap a few more twigs than deer or wolves, have muffled footsteps thanks to the thick padding on their feet. Unlike humans, these footsteps are loud, but not clumsy. It's not so much the sound of wading through leaves as it is the heavy thump of a large, bipedal beast. Because Bigfoot is bipedal, it would stand to reason his footprints would be louder than those of most animals. The distribution of weight for a bipedal animal is half that of a quadruped like a bear. Because of this, there is more pressure on one point of the animal's body. This means that whenever bigfoot takes a step, over half his weight will be transferred into the foot when it hits the ground. Because of this, a very audible boom would be produced. Forget not that Bigfoot can weigh up to around one thousand pounds. His footsteps would be the most recognizable out of all the forest animals.
The final piece of non-visual encounters is the strong feeling of being watched. This feeling is also accompanied by a skin crawling sensation and hair rising. Once again this can be attributed to humans being primates just like bigfoot. Most people do not get any sort of "sensation" when being watched by other animals. There have been reports of a sensation of being watched when humans were in gorilla territory. It later turned out that these people were actually being watched by gorillas. The same has been reported of orangutans (Sheppard-Wolford, 97). It is more than possible that these sensations are occurring on the subconscious level. While skeptics might say it's just paranoia, the evidence indicates otherwise. Most bigfoot witnesses are hunters. These are people who are used to operating at night and dealing with large, unpredictable animals. It is unlikely they would be more paranoid of an omnivorous and shy primate than a bear or carnivorous cougar. Since Bigfoot is a primate, it is very possible that we could feel the presence of his scrutinizing eyes. It is rumored that we only use a portion of our brains. Perhaps Bigfoot uses portions of its brain that we do not, allowing this creature to use another, not yet discovered method of sensory perception in the darkness of the nighttime forests.
Skeptics of the Sasquatch say that the northern environments where Bigfoot is known to live could support such a monster. They say that it is too cold, there is not enough food, and that the creature would be preyed upon. It would not be the first time that a certain type of animal has been found in an area where they are not commonly found. Take the Desert Elephants for example. One wouldn't expect to find elephants in the desert but they are alive and well in the dunes of the southern Sahara (Mayell, 2002). Why should Bigfoot not be found in a place where you don't normally find primates?
The issue of how cold it is should be addressed first. Bigfoot would not be the first primate to be found in a region where it snows. The Japanese Macaque lives in the nearly permanently frozen peaks of Japan. It is by no means an accidental visitor to that area. It has adapted to live in the ice and snow. Bigfoot's closest relative is the Yeti. It is a white furred version of Sasquatch said to live in the icy Himalayas. Perhaps the yeti has developed similar ways to fight the cold of the everlasting winter of the mountains.
The other skeptic argument is that Bigfoot could beaver find the sustenance it needs to support its weight. A good example of a huge animal that manages to support its weight quite well in Bigfoot's environment is the grizzly bear. This animal can weigh up to one thousand pounds as well. If a bear can find food, then an intelligent primate like Sasquatch can too. Unlike gorillas, which are herbivores, it is likely that Bigfoot is omnivorous. Aside from eating just vegetation, the animal may take meat where it can find it. He might have found a way to extract fish from the rivers just as bears do. Bigfoot could also scavenge the remains of dead animals. After all, it is said that he has an excellent sense of smell and would be able to smell rotting flesh for miles. Perhaps Bigfoot climbs trees and waits for unsuspecting prey to pass below it such as deer. It would then leap out of the tree and use its superior ape strength to quickly subdue its victim. Foreign tourists would make easy prey for a Sasquatch as well. From eyewitness observation, Bigfoot could easily outrun a human. These people would have nowhere near as much chance of being detected as missing than a local. Perhaps Bigfoot comprehends this with its superior mind. A slightly more farfetched, yet not impossible theory has been presented by an anonymous group of students at Northern Arizona University. They believe that Bigfoot has developed a way to use photosynthesis just as plants do. This would mean that the creature could create its own food from just sunlight and water.
The other skeptic argument for the location of Bigfoots (Bigfeet?) is that the animal would be preyed upon by cougars, bears, and wolves. There may be a few instances where a pack of wolves or a very large bear has taken down one of the Sasquatch, but it would be a rare instance indeed. An adult male gorilla is the most powerful primate that science recognizes. Illegal cage matches have been reported where the animal has taken down adult lions and black bears. Sasquatch is even larger than the gorilla, meaning the sheer power of the creature must be outstanding. If anything tried to fight a healthy adult mountain devil, it is unlikely that the assailant would survive the encounter. Unless the animal attacking Bigfoot is a bull crocodile, the ape would come out on top. Most animals would probably give a Sasquatch some space.
The most prominent argument that the skeptics use is that there is no solid evidence of the animal. If the ancient legends of the creature and the solid eyewitness accounts weren't enough, there are many casts made of the creature's footprints. Skeptics say that whenever they revisit the site where the casts were made, the prints are gone. Unfortunately even the lightest of rain can wash a massive print away. Even if it hasn't rained, debris and foot traffic of other animals can easily disturb the site. Skeptics also say that there are no corpses, feces, or hair samples. To counter this, take a look at the populations of cougars. There are estimated to be far more cougars than Sasquatch, but the chances of finding a cougar body or even bones are incredibly slim (Stefan, 2003). To find a Bigfoot corpse would be like finding a lost marble in Lake Michigan. Between the accelerated rate of decay due to soil acids and scavengers there would not be anything left for an explorer to find of a dead Skookum. If this is the case for a whole body, there would be no chance of finding scat or hair.
Skeptics also complain about how more people would have seen the beast by now. Going back to the cougar point, a live cougar is not something you come across very often. Many people go their whole lives without seeing one. Besides, the forests are very vast. Bigfoot can hide wherever it wants. The yeti has even more places to hide since people rarely explore deep into the Himalayas. Bigfoot is probably wary of humans anyways. His acute gorilla like senses would allow him to avoid crossing paths with humans.
Furthermore, perhaps Bigfoot does not want to be discovered. It is possible that he goes to great measures to cover up evidence of his existence. Using his superior reasoning, he has probably determined by now that if people think he is fake, they won't come looking for him. Perhaps he covers up his tracks, disposes of other Bigfoot bodies, and hides his leftover victims in the ground. His speed and good eyesight would allow him to outrun fanatical bigfoot hunters. With his alleged telekinetic sixth sense he could anticipate the movements of his would-be trackers and outsmart them at every turn. It is possible that these creatures are more adept than most people think.
Bigfoot is a real animal that science has yet to recognize. If people can step away from their unwillingness to accept that the myth might very well be true, then biology could gain more support than ever. Perhaps someday, Sasquatch could even be drawn out of hiding, so that we may better learn how to search for such creatures in the future.
