Sarah Smith
23, April 2009
English 105
Extended Argument
Exercise v. Diet pill
Since the beginning of man we have had to do activity throughout our time, from hunting to building houses, from hiking to sports man has had movement. Then things like technology and "easy way outs" have come into society. Americans may have freedom to do whatever they please, but a lot of them have become lazy. What happened to the days where there was home cooked meals and kids would play outside until they could not see their hands in front of their faces? According to www.cdc.gov 66% of Americans are overweight and of those children aged from twelve to nineteen 17% are obese and children aged six to eleven 19% of them are obese. Why are a lot of Americans becoming so lazy? There is a secret that some may have never heard of, it is exercising and dieting. There are many benefits to gain from exercising. There is the safe and healthy way, then there is the "easy way out," diet pills. There are ways to keep your body at its finest, there is dieting where you eat healthy and help your body, exercising is not just there to keep you strong and fit it is there to benefit you in the future, and there are
Smith 2
the diet pills which are not very beneficial.
When you diet, you can either make it hard or you can make positive change.
According to Dr. James O. Hill getting started you need to find out what your BMI is. A
BMI is your Body Mass Index and it measures the fat in your body. Next, it helps to keep a notebook of all the things you eat. You might know what you are eating but not realizing how much you are eating of it a day. The last thing when getting started is you need to make a long term commitment. (www. Web MD.com) In the book You On A Diet it explains that the first two weeks are probably the most hardest and afterwards it is a small climb everyday with dieting. It discusses ways to just cut down everything instead of dropping it all at once. Eating more green vegetables and less bread can help drop the weight within the first few weeks. Some of these things is what catches people off guard.
When dieting you must know about the food you are eating and the basic food groups. In learning more about the food groups www.cdc.gov lets us know about each group. You have your grains, fruits, vegetables, fat-free or low-fat milk products, lean meats, poultry, and fish, and nuts, seeds, and legumes. The grains include things like wheat bread, pasta and unsalted pretzels and popcorn. According to
Smith 3
fitnessforweightloss.com says you need about five to ten servings of grains a day
depending on your calorie intake. When it comes to fruits and vegetables you want to go
for bright colors and darker greens. You need three to five servings of fruits and three to five servings of vegetables. Milk products you need about three to four servings a day.
Meats, poultry and fish you need five to seven servings a day. You need three to four servings of nuts, seeds, and legumes. There is no need to stick to this all the time. Every
once in awhile you can take a break and have something like ice cream or a cookie. According to www.netdoctor.co.uk the most effective way to lose weight is by reducing your calorie intake and adding more activity to your day. When you decrease your calories gradually you start to see changes. Some changes are replace fizzy drinks and fruit cordials with water, have smaller portions of your favorite food, avoid having seconds of dinner, and cut down on beer and alcohol. Try to avoid skipping meals because it will make you hungrier later. Also every once in awhile you have cravings and you need to answer them. If you ignore them they get bigger with time and you might just start eating badly. But there also needs to be limits on cravings. If you answer every one then what was the point of dieting? You just end up going back to negatively eating stuff
Smith 4
that is bad for you.
Dieting is not the only way to lose weight. If you want to lose weight and keep it
off there is exercising. Exercising is an important part of keeping your body healthy. According to www.netdoctor.co.uk every single time you exercise more than usual, you
burn calories and fat. Exercising does not have to be boring, doing something that interests you like swimming or riding a bike is activity you can do daily. Even adding that
extra something will help. For example when you are watching television, on the
commercials get up and do jumping jacks or take the stairs instead of the escalator or elevator. Simple changes like that increase activity. (www.netdoctor.co.uk)
One recommendation when losing weight is getting a pedometer. This keeps track of how many steps are taken a day. Walking daily and keeping track helps you realize what kind of activity you are doing. When you are trying to lose weight you also might want to set a realistic goal. If you set a goal that is so far off then it will be difficult for you to reach. When you are setting goals you also might want to stay positive. Talk yourself up instead of down, it will help in the long run. It keeps you positive throughout your weight losing experience. Another thing is get the recommended time of sleep, when
Smith 5
your rested you have more energy to do things. (weightloss.about.com)
There are also benefits in your daily life when you exercise. According to www.mayoclinic.com exercise can improve your mood. It helps calm you down after a
stressful day and it releases endorphins which make you happier. Exercise can even reduce feelings of depression and anxiety. Also regular exercise can help prevent or
manage high blood pressure, type two diabetes, osteoporosis, and certain types of cancer. (mayoclinic.com) Exercising helps to manage your weight and strengthen your heart and lungs. Exercise delivers oxygen and nutrients to your tissues and as the blood pumps
through your heart and blood vessels it helps it work more efficiently (mayoclinic.com). When it works more efficiently you gain more energy to do more things. Exercising can also be fun, all it takes is finding something you enjoy. Include other people as well, if you have someone to work out with it does not have to be "boring" as some would say.
There are also other ways to exercise besides just cardio or physical activity, there is also lifting weights. The site exercise.about.com explains reason to lift weights and its benefits. One is lifting weights builds lean muscle tissue which is more metabolically active than fat. Regularly strength training is just as important as exercising. It also makes
Smith 6
you stronger, not just stronger for exercising but in everyday life. It makes things a little easier like, carrying groceries, housework, carrying children, gardening, etc. Also it does not just make your muscles stronger, it makes your bones stronger. (www.exercise.about.com) Lifting also helps reduce risk of injury and can reduce arthritis
pain. Lifting weights gives your joints some cushion therefore reducing joint pain. It increases your balance, stability, and flexibility, and it makes you feel better about yourself. People start to notice changes about themselves and start to feel more confident.
Weight lifting also adds a challenge to your daily routine. Instead of just doing typical cardio you give your body a different workout. (www.exercise.about.com) You feel the improvements throughout your daily life as things get better and easier.
Exercising and lifting weights are healthy but there are also bad techniques when
it comes to exercise. According to www.aolhealth.com lifting too much weight can injure muscles and create incorrect alignment of the spine. When lifting certain weights people use momentum instead of properly aligning their spine and strong core muscles. (aolhealth.com) Then there are the guys and maybe even girls that work on only their biceps. The thing is you can not just do that because not only is the bicep the smallest
Smith 7
muscle in your upper body, you need to work on other places to make it more effective. (aolhealth.com) Working on just your abs also will not work. You need to do cardio to lose the fat if you want to strengthen the muscle. If you need to hold yourself up to keep balance on a cardio machine than it will not be effective. It can be dangerous and not worth it, it is just better to go a slower speed than anything. Lastly if you just stick to the
same routine over and over eventually your body gets used to it. You will start to see no changes and wondering what you are doing wrong. You need to surprise your body with different routines to drop the weight and get lean. (www.aolhealth.com)
Not only are there bad techniques to exercising there is also the "easy way out,"
diet pills. Health.howstuffworks.com explains that diet pill ads help you "feel more fit," "boost your energy" and "melt away the pounds." Now diet pills are a multibillion dollar industry in the United States. (health.howstuffworks.com) There are different forms of
Smith 8
diet drugs, there is prescription, over-the-counter, herbal supplements, patches, powder, or in liquid forms. You see many different ads on the television and on the internet and a
majority of them are products that are unregulated, untested, and unproven. Even if the diet pill was effective it would only work for six months because eventually your body becomes immune to it. Once that happens you still need to diet and exercise in order to still lose weight, if not you gain all the weight right back. (health.howstuffworks.com)
Some side effects of diet pills vary with ingredients. For instance the diet pill Xenical has fat blockers like orlistat. This removes excess fats in the intestines which causes uncomfortable cramping, gas, and diarrhea. It also takes the bodies absorption of vitamins and nutrients and whoever takes Xenical also needs to take a multivitamin.
Another dangerous ingredient is sibutramine in Meridia. This ingredient is an appetite suppressant that triggers your sympathetic nervous system, this raises your blood pressure and heart rate. This increases risk of heart attacks and cardiac arrests. In February 1998 and March 2003, the FDA received reports of forty nine deaths related to sibutramine. Other side effects include constipation, headache, dry mouth and insomnia. (health.howstuffworks.com) These are the things that people do not look at or think about when getting diet pills. The pills eventually stop working and you eventually gain the
Smith 9
weight back. So are diet pills really worth it?
So what is more safe dieting and exercise or diet pills? Sure diet pills work a little faster but they damage you internally. Dieting and exercise may take a little longer but it makes it that much better when you work hard for it. Exercising helps you in the long run and makes sure that your body is at your best. Diet pills might help but in order for them to really work you still need to diet and exercise. Also it would take time for the pills to come into effect. Why is it that Americans do not want to take the time to exercise? Just
small changes a day will make it easier throughout your weight losing period. There are ways to keep your body at its finest, there is dieting where you eat healthy and help your body, exercising is not just there to keep you strong and fit it is there to benefit you in the future, and there are the diet pills which are not very beneficial.
