Legality of Tobacco: Extended Argument
Running Head: LEGALITY OF TOBACCO
Sierra Petrosky
Belknap
ENG 105
4-19-09
Advocates for tobacco will state that the tobacco industry helps our economy, they will downplay the health risks to their customers, and they will justify its legality in any way possible. They will lie. The truth is: tobacco is a drain on the economy, the largest health risk in the nation, and a violation of the constitution. It is the only legal product in the United States that causes death and disability when it is used as intended. The sale of tobacco is unethical; harmful to consumers, their children, and our environment; and should no longer be legal.
Tobacco industries' biggest argument for justifying their business is that it is helpful to our economy. Bold tobacco supporters state that tobacco users boost our economy because they pay higher taxes on cigarettes, and they die sooner than most, thereby not using as much of our healthcare resources by requiring care typically needed when becoming elderly (Kmietowicz, 2001). First of all, what kind of heartless person would buy into that? "I support tobacco because people who use it die so I don't have to pay so many taxes." Are you kidding me? Not only is that extremely unethical, but it is not even true. In fact, tobacco production actually hurts our economy! The average smoker costs his or her employer approximately $4,600 per year due to absenteeism, higher insurance costs, and property damage. That's $65 billion per year taken from our economy (Uzych, 1990). Also, the annual human and property costs of fires caused by careless smoking total about $6 billion (American Burn Association). This means that overall the annual cost to our nation's economy due to tobacco products is about $71 billion. Put that little fact in your pipe and smoke it.
Tobacco is also the only legal product that is harmful to consumers when used as it is intended. Even alcohol has been proven to be beneficial if limited to one alcoholic beverage per day (Bakalar, 2009). The World Health Organization estimates that over four billion people die prematurely every year as a result of tobacco-related illnesses. "More people die from smoking than from illicit drug abuse, motor vehicle accidents, suicides, homicides, drowning, shark attacks, falls, and electrocution- in fact, all other external causes of death combined" (Liberman, 2003). Tobacco use has been linked with heart disease, infertility, miscarriage, cervical cancer, lung cancer, bladder cancer, colorectal cancer, sudden infant death syndrome, blindness, deafness, Buerger's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and strokes. Figure 1. was taken from the Center for Disease Control's website, and depicts the annual deaths from the above causes. I don't believe anything the tobacco company could say will make these figures look justifiable.
Figure 1. Annual deaths in 2000-2004 due to cigarette smoking
Another argument commonly used by tobacco companies is that it is people's constitutional right to smoke. I'm sorry but I fail to see any amendment that states that people have the right to smoke. In fact, we supposedly have "the right to clean air," which is constantly being violated by smokers. Though laws are beginning to be passed that prohibit smoking in public places, this precaution is not enough to prevent health risks for nonsmokers; most importantly the children of smokers who are constantly being exposed to cigarette's harmful toxins at home.
Approximately 5,500 deaths occur every year due to secondhand smoke. Both cardiovascular disease and chronic respiratory symptoms are common illnesses found in children that are exposed to cigarette smoke (Uzych, 1990). As if that weren't enough, new studies show that third-hand smoke is a risk to children as well. Parents that are concerned about second-hand smoke often open windows or turn on fans in an attempt to clear the air. However, a toxic brew of gases and particles invisibly cling to the smoker's hair and clothing, as well as cushions, carpeting, and even food. This residue contains heavy metals, carcinogens, and radioactive materials that children can get there hands on or ingest (Rabin, 2009). There is absolutely no justifiable reason for innocent children to have to suffer due to their parent or guardian's decision to smoke.
Lame excuse #4: Tobacco companies do not force consumers to use their product; it is a personal choice made by the individual. Untrue. First off, approximately 90% of people begin smoking as teenagers, when they are not mature enough to understand the consequences (Liberman, 2003). This is largely due to the fact that tobacco companies target adolescents in their advertisements, attempting to make smoking look cool, sexy, and fun. Figure 2. shows an advertisement from Winston that depicts a young woman smoking, with a headline that would catch the attention of many adolescents. Do you think it is a coincidence that the top 5 most advertised brands of cigarettes are also the top brands used by teenagers? (Uzych, 1990) Me neither.
Figure 2. Winston cigarette ad
Secondly, tobacco is extremely addictive. Surveys have shown that about 75% of smokers have attempted to quit, and around that same percentage have stated that they would quit if it were painless to do so. Only 18% of people say they do not have a desire to stop smoking (Liberman, 2003). Most people's failed attempts to quit are due to Withdrawal syndrome, due to their body's dependence on nicotine. This syndrome has many of the same symptoms as major depressive disorder and anxiety disorders, making it extremely difficult, and even painful for an individual to quit. However, health experts claim that the health advantages of quitting far outweigh those of continuing the use of tobacco (Current Medical Research & Opinion, 2009). There are many programs and products designed to assist smoker's in their attempt to quit that make the process far easier, but the best way to avoid Nicotine Withdrawal Syndrome is, of course, to never start smoking in the first place.
Figure 3. What remains after a wildfire in the Camp Pendleton area in 2007. (Picture taken from The National Fire Protection Association).
I could go on and on about the plethora of health risks associated with smoking, but there is yet another issue that is still often overseen: the risk to our environment. Littered butts cause numerous fires every year, some of them quite fatal. According to the American Burn Association, approximately 900 people in the United States die each year in fires started by cigarettes, and about 2,500 are injured. Figure 3. shows the image of what remained after a wildfire caused by a cigarette in Camp Pendleton, California. This particular fire destroyed 21,084 acres of land, and fire investigators determined that it was caused by a motorist tossing a cigarette butt out the window. Some fires similar to this one burn hundreds of thousands of acres before they are contained, and oftentimes homes and personal belongings are destroyed as well (The National Fire Protection Association).
Even if cigarettes weren't a deadly fire hazard, littering would remain a problem. It is estimated that each year several trillion cigarette butts are littered worldwide. That means billions of cigarettes are flicked, one at a time, on our sidewalks, beaches, gardens, nature trails, and many other public places every single day. In fact, cigarettes are the most littered item in the world, and arguably the most dangerous to the environment. Cigarette filters are made of cellulose acetate tow (commonly mistaken by consumers as cotton), and they can take decades to degrade. Not only does cigarette litter ruin even the most beautiful settings, but the toxic residue in cigarette filters is extremely damaging to the environment (Cigarette Litter Organization).
Tobacco does our nation absolutely no good. It hurts our economy, is currently the largest health risk in America, violates our constitution, is harmful to our environment, and is a large contributor to the amount of wildfires started each year. Nothing good comes of the production and sale of tobacco. There is no plausible reason for tobacco to remain legal, and I have no idea how it has continued to remain so as long as it has.
