Amanda Hay
Ms. Kacie Beagen
English 105
2009 April 28
Water in the Atmosphere
With ever growing cities in America, driving has become a necessity of everyday life. Due to this necessity, the purchase and use of automobiles that run off petroleum-based fuels have been greatly increasing in recent years. Many argue that the continual use of these vehicles is initiating environmental damage and global warming. Today, measures are being introduced and put to practice to help reduce and eliminate the dependency on petroleum fuels. The hope is to decrease air pollution, to create a better environment, and to prevent global warming. One of these measures includes the development of new technology to power vehicles, such as hybrid and hydrogen cars. Despite some flaws in the technology, the effects from use of hydrogen vehicles would be more beneficial to the environment than the hybrid vehicles.
Hydrogen vehicles require the use of fuel cells to function. The fuel cell is a new form of technology that converts fuel into energy electrochemically. This means that a reaction takes place between the fuel, located on the anode side of the cell, and the oxidant, located on the cathode side of the cell, "in the presence of an electrolyte" ("Fuel Cells," 1). When broken down anatomically, the function of the fuel cell is established by separation between the electrons and protons in the fuel. This process is called "catalysis." The electrons then flow through a circuit, converting into electricity ("Fuel Cells," 4). "Another catalytic process puts the electrons back in, combining them with the protons and oxidant to form waste products, [such as water]" ("Fuel Cells," 4). In essence, a fuel cell works like an over-sized battery that does not need recharging.
The technology of fuel cells is becoming increasingly more popular. It is becoming more popular because they are considered to be extremely efficient. The efficiency of fuel cells used in these vehicles is immensely beneficial to the environment. The fuel cell found in vehicles is the "proton exchange membrane fuel cell" (Grigor'ev et al, 293). The increasing popularity is found in "the overwhelming majority of world automakers [who] are preparing for quantity production of environmentally clean cars and buses using fuel cells of this type" (Grigor'ev et al, 293).
Grigor'ev et al, the author[s] of the article "Optimization of a Fuel Cell Stack Fueled by Hydrogen-Based Mixtures," established a mathematical model that calculated the efficiency of the proton exchange membrane fuel cell undergoing different operating conditions. These fuel cells are powered by a series of hydrogen-based mixtures and, based on the experiment; they determined how a fuel cell stack would react to certain chemicals. Based on their mathematical model and experiment, they concluded that despite the amount of a certain chemical or gaseous substance, fuel cells are an optimal and efficient source for energy.
In January 2003, during his State of Union address, former president, George W. Bush proposed funding for the development of hydrogen-powered cars. President Bush stated:
"Tonight I'm proposing $1. 2 billion in research funding so that American can lead the world in developing clean, hydrogen-powered automobiles. A single chemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen generates energy, which can be used to power a car-producing water, not exhaust fumes. With a new national commitment, our scientists and engineers will overcome obstacles to taking these cars from laboratory to showroom, so that the first car driven by a child born today could be powered by hydrogen, and pollution free." (Grant, 129)
After this proposal was made, the White House established a five-year program titled "Freedom FUEL." This program was estimated to initially cost around $720-million (Grant, 129). Theoretically, the program's goals were to ultimately decrease U.S. dependence on oil and foreign oil companies, to decrease carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, and to gain leadership in the technological energy market (Dempsey, 8). The first of these goals, "'freedom from dependence on Middle East oil'" (US political pundits quoted from Grant,130), is said to be more of a justification of patriotic and political standards, although there are other countries that arguably rely on foreign oil more than the U.S. does (Grant, 130). The second of these goals is most justifiable. According to the Electric Power Research Institute (in Palo Alto, CA), hydrogen is produced by "thermocatalytic 'splitting' of natural gas...[or also known as] the reaction of water with carbon" and is brought out electronically for transportation through combustion (Grant, 130). This ensures zero carbon dioxide emissions, which ultimately benefits the environment. The third goal of gaining leadership in advancing vehicle technology is to help support and sustain the U.S. economy.
There is still some skepticism regarding the Bush administration's push for the "Freedom FUEL" program, despite the beneficial outcomes. Many scientists argue that this plan has "unrealistic expectations" (Dempsey, 8) for the present time. One such organization obtaining skepticism is the National Academy of Engineering (NAE). This organization stated that the program "lacked focus and needed more co-ordination" (Dempsey, 8). According to the NAE, the cost of the technology needed is far too expensive, current hydrogen technology is still not up to standards and the complete use of fuel cell vehicles is "still some 25 years off" of being fully developed and practical (Grant, 8).
Many suggest that hybrid cars are the best alternative to benefiting the environment. Hybrid vehicles have allowed for the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the reduction of petroleum-fuel consumption, and overall better gas mileage. Environmental air quality is greatly affected by hybrid vehicle use. According to Car-Ruffino and Acheson in their article, "The Hybrid Phenomenon", "transportation is responsible for a quarter of greenhouse gases released in to the atmosphere" (17). Hybrids alone have saved the environment from the emissions of approximately "three million pounds of smog-forming gases...[and] one million metric tons of carbon dioxide," as well as "one million barrels of crude oil...[and] 125 million gallons of gasoline." (Car-Ruffino & Acheson, 17). Statistically, a hybrid is also two times more efficient as compared to the average fuel powered vehicle (Car-Ruffino & Acheson, 18). All of these valuable qualities are made possible by how a hybrid functions. A full hybrid, the most widely purchased hybrid model, is able to run on electricity alone as well as recycle that energy. Through "regenerative braking," the full hybrid is able to convert the vehicle's kinetic energy, or the energy required for an object's motion, into electrical energy without consuming any fuel or emitting pollutants into the air (Car-Ruffino & Acheson, 2007, p.18).
Although there has been a significant amount of change brought about by hybrid cars, the technology from fuel cell powered hydrogen cars is proven to be far more beneficial. According to Brown, the use of fuel cells in hydrogen cars "promise[s] mass transit without the pollution, odor, or noise" (36). Hybrid vehicles do not completely eliminate the emission of pollutants in the atmosphere, but hydrogen cars do. For this reason, three advantageous reasons to implement hydrogen vehicle use would include: "[hydrogen] can be burned cleanly or used in fuel cells...[which] reduce[s] air pollution," carbon dioxide is not emitted into the atmosphere, and "[hydrogen is a resource that] can be produced from diverse energy sources...[which] can reduce oil dependence" (Keith and Farrell, 4). Significantly, the environment ultimately benefits more from the use of hydrogen cars over hybrid cars because water vapor will not damage the earth's atmosphere.
However, there are still some flaws and disadvantages in hydrogen fuel celled technology. According to Romm, in his article "The Hype About Hydrogen," because hydrogen is a tightly bonded molecule in water and gases, it "is expensive and energy-intensive to extract and purify" making it "not a readily accessible energy source" (74). The biggest issue scientists are faced with in the development of these vehicles is that hydrogen is extremely hard to store. Romm states this is because "at room temperature and pressure, [it] takes up some 3,000 times more space than gasoline containing an equivalent amount of energy" (75). There are also safety hazards with using these vehicles because hydrogen is extremely flammable, "with an ignition energy. 20 times smaller than that of natural gas or gasoline" and hydrogen leaks are "hard to detect" (Romm, 75). How will we power these vehicles? How long would it take to build an infrastructure that would support and sustain their use in our every day lives?
With so many of these drawbacks still apparent in the development of hydrogen vehicle technology, many seem to think that hybrids currently appear to be more beneficial. In the article, "Hybrid Cars Now, Fuel Cell Cars Later," by Demirdoven and Deutch, the energy efficiency between hybrids and fuel cell powered hydrogen vehicles are compared. Based on their investigation and data between the two models of cars, they concluded that there is no significant advantage to the fuel cell car over the hybrid ( 1). In order for this conclusion to come about, their model needed to be validated:
"To test the validity of these comparisons and our simple model, we have used an advanced vehicle simulator called ADVISOR, developed by the National Renewable Research Laboratory (NREL) of DOE[15]. ADVISOR provides estimates of energy efficiencies for different vehicle configurations. ADVISOR shows the broad range of vehicle performance that is possible with a reasonable choice of system parameters such as maximum engine power, maximum motor power, transmission type, and brake energy regeneration." (Demirdoven and Deutch, 12)
The average efficiency levels between the hybrid vehicle and the hydrogen vehicle based off of this simulation were not of great difference. For example: the average motor efficiency between the two competing vehicle models had a difference of only 3 percent and the regenerative braking efficiency only had a difference of 2 percent (Demirdoven and Deutch, table 1).
Although hybrid vehicles are more common than hydrogen vehicles, hydrogen vehicles are more environmentally-safe than their counterparts. In a world where driving is a necessity, this new technology is become an increasing importance. With these technologies, steps are being made to pursue a a change for a better and more clean environment.
