Running header: VIDEO GAME PANIC
Video Games: Panic over Pixels
Taylor Lang
Northern Arizona University
Abstract
This paper argues that violence seen in today's video games do not cause children to be more violent individuals. Examined are the roles of pre-existing personality traits, parenting, censorship, and brain development to show that video games are not to blame when dealing with violent children. Also, positive outcomes of video game play are briefly inspected. The conclusion drawn is that correlation is not only insufficient for the counterargument, but that stronger correlation can be seen to show otherwise. More research should be done concerning children and their pre-dispositions to aggression in order to show causal effects.
Video Games: Panic over Pixels
Currently, there is a wildfire of media and research that claims video games are harming the psyche of America's youth, relating violence to gamers (Porter & Starcevic, 2007). However, there is a new wave of research that is showing other factors having greater influence on children being violent than the video games they may or may not play. These factors include the parenting a child has received, as well as their pre-disposition to hostility (Vastag, 2004). Overall, research shows that often a child simply has a naturally aggressive personality, or they have been raised in a manner that either increases aggressive feelings or induces them all together. In the past, results from experiments concerning violence in video games have shown correlation between hostility and gamers, but never causation. Also, doubts that have been present in the results of these experiments have consistently been under-stated or ignored completely (Nature, 2003). Another idea that is prevalent in this argument is the notion that children are incapable of making decisions based on subsequent consequences (Crone & Van, 2007). This, while true, is not a legitimate argument; without causation, a child is no more likely to act violently simply because they cannot properly foresee consequences. Video games, while often used for entertainment purposes may also serve as learning tools (Kearney & Pivec, 2007). Learning-based video games are not necessarily void of all violence, because some children are more likely to focus on an academic game if it is more exciting. Also, conceding that not all material is appropriate for younger audiences, censorship is an effectively implemented tool to limit what youth of different ages may purchase. This, again, comes back to parents continually purchasing unsuitable material for their kids. The current theory is that video games do not cause violent tendencies, but that inherently violent people are attracted to violence presented in the games due to personality traits or the parenting they received.
Video games sales have increased immensely over the years as owning a computer or gaming console has become the norm. Critics of the more violent games claim this to be a cause of violence among youth (Porter & Starcevic, 2007). This, however, is a poorly founded argument to start with, as there has been an overall decrease in the number of violent acts committed by youth in America in recent years (Figure 1). While the gaming industry has been labeled as the instigator of violent dispositions, they are simply a scapegoat. Issues truly begin in the home, with the interactions between a child and their parent (Vastag, 2004). Higher levels of parent involvement were correlated with lower feelings of hostility and aggression in children, while the opposite was also true. This correlation had a much higher significance than the correlation between those who do play violent video games and those who have hostile feelings. This data implies that parenting plays a much greater role in aggression levels in a child than sensory stimuli from a video game. Also, significant correlations have been noted between someone's pre-disposition to violent feelings and the time they spend playing violent video games (Unsworth & Ward, 2007). This is to say that those with pre-existing violent tendencies are likely to play more video games that involve violence. So, it follows that the relation between violence in video games and violence in the gamers is largely due to the pre-existing personality traits of aggression that attract them to violent games. The relationship is not indicative of video games causing hostility.
One source of debate concerning this topic is a lack of causation on either side. Causation means that A causes B. The counterargument states that playing violent video games will cause someone to have more aggressive feelings and behaviors, thus attempting to demonstrate causation. Correlation, however, simply says that the two are linked in some way or another, without any necessity for explaining how or why the two are related. This is a very important distinction because only correlation has been shown between the aggression of gamers and the video games they play. Causation, being more difficult to prove, is the how or why correlation exists. One significant argument that is debunked by the lack of causation is the argument based on the lack of development of a child's brain. This is the idea that minors do not yet have fully developed brains, especially in an area known as the pre-frontal cortex (Crone & Van, 2007). This is an area which allows people to make decisions based on the long-term repercussions of their actions. The argument that comes out of this is that children playing violent video games do not possess the ability to determine what the consequences of their violent behavior will be, and will therefore act without care of repercussion. However, with causation lacking in the grand scheme, the idea of children acting on violent feelings related to video games due to their inability to make fully educated decisions is simply wrong. This is to say that children are not more prone to be violent because of their premature pre-frontal cortex. If a child is not more likely to act violently because of the video games they play in the first place, they are certainly not more likely to act out because of an underdeveloped brain.
School shootings, such as Columbine High, and other incidents heavily covered by the media have been related to violence in video games. The Columbine shooting was largely attributed to the two boys having been enthusiasts of the game Doom, which is indeed a violent video game (Ferguson, 2008). However, as mass homicides have persisted and extensive studies have been conducted, both the U.S. Secret Service and Federal Bureau of Investigation have concluded that no significant profile can be made to identify potential school shooters. Without a profile being created on the basis of what video games someone plays, a heavy fallback for critics of video games is taken away. In fact, statistical data suggests that previous school shooters, both at the university and high school levels, actually show less interest in violent video games and other media than do young men who do not commit violent crimes.
Games, when properly designed, can have positive outcomes for those who play them, and, when censored properly, can avoid displaying inappropriate material to younger audiences. Video games that are violent can still harbor qualities that improve hand-eye coordination or other skills, such as problem solving and both deductive and inductive reasoning (Kearney & Pivec, 2007). These positive attributes, when coupled with good censoring, can result in overall positive outcomes for video game players. Censoring is accomplished through rating systems, typically created by the companies producing the games (Ivory & Kalyanaraman, 2009). Ratings include indications of violent, sexual, and language content, as well as other material that could be considered inappropriate. The system may not be perfect, but, when followed, is effective. The problem arises when parents ignore these ratings and allow their children to purchase and play these violent games anyway. Again, this comes back to the idea that parents need to be more accountable and responsible in selecting entertainment material for their kids. The idea is not that video games are incapable of harming a child psychologically, but that rules need to be followed. This will allow for youth to be kept away from being harmed, while still being able to play games they enjoy. Moreover, there needs to be less focus on a scapegoat that is the gaming industry and more focus on the correlation between the lack of interaction that a child receives from their parents and the hostility this can create.
Focus needs to remain on overall pre-dispositions to aggression, rather than the amount of time spent playing violent games. Unsworth and Ward (2007) measured self reported anger immediately prior to playing a violent game, as well as the participants overall predisposition to aggression. Using these two factors to predict post-game play reactions had 73% reliability. This shows a strong relation between, generally speaking, how a persons' day is going, how regularly they typically show hostility, and how violent video games affect them. That is to say that it is not the violence seen in a game that creates hostility, but that hostility is simply more dominant in some personalities than in others. This level of hostility can vary on a day-to-day basis as well, demonstrating that even fewer implications can be made concerning how violent games affect hostility.
With so many wanting to quickly blame video games for violent actions among youth today, studies are producing different results. The idea of predisposition to hostility being the most influential, stating that naturally violent individuals are more attracted to violent video games. Research that has shown correlation between playing violent video games and violent feelings lack the relationship laboratory studies have to real-world applications. The studies also ignore the dubious results produced, and draw illegitimate conclusions from them (Nature, 2003). The critics of these games also claim that brain development plays a role in a child's tendencies to act out violently (Crone & Van, 2007). However, without a causal link between the two, this is a fallacious argument. Positive parent interaction with children is also seen as a key to reducing violence. Enforcement of censorship regarding games rated high in violence is essential for parents to maintain. Also, learning through video games could become an increasingly useful tool, especially as technology progresses (Kearney & Pivec, 2007). Video game hysteria is simply panic over meaningless pixels that are used for their entertainment value.
Figure 1:
(Vastag, 2004)
