Falesha Bagley Pg. 1
April 20, 2009
Eng 105
Extended Argument
Age 21, Good, Bad, or pointless?
In August of 2008 a group of over a hundred college presidents signed and submitted to congress a petition, asking them to relook at lowering the drinking age. The group was soon named the "Amethyst Initiative". The group was founded by John Mc Cardell, the former president of Middlebury College in Vermont, he sacrificed his job and his reputation to try and propose a change. Mc Cardell proposed that congress and the U.S. people relook at the age 21 policy because it just isn't working. He fears that teens, especially those in college, still drink illegally and they drink irresponsibly behind closed doors where it is more dangerous than surrounded by people. MADD, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, believes the law they fought to put in place does indeed work and is appalled by the petition. Since the petition was made public the peoples of the U.S. was in a stir. Debates started popping up all over the news, whether if was 'for', 'against', or even settling for a nice in between. I personally vote for lowering the drinking age, not because I am 18, but because I am a college student and have faith of the maturity most college students have, though not all are. The age 21 policy was adapted in 1984, over 20 years ago.
Talk of establishing a minimum age limit was after prohibition when nearly every state agreed on the age 21 being the age limit. Between 1970 and 1975 a total of 29 states soon
Pg. 2
lowered their age limit to 18, 19, and even 20. Each state had their individual laws which led to teens from one state to drive to the border of another to drink, and then drive back. These state borders were soon nicknamed "blood borders" due to the fact that teens drove home drunk and highway fatalities regarding alcohol in teens skyrocketed, this soon became the leading cause of teen deaths. Soon organizations such as MADD pressured 16 states into uniformly raising their limit to 21 between 1976 and 1983, but not all were persuaded. Worried about teens continuing to drive to the borders to drink, these organizations were not pleased with the non-cooperative states and pushed for the national government to step in. By 1984 the government approved the Uniform Drinking Age Act, by doing so this act forced the states to all raise their drinking age limit or loose ten percent of their highway funding. Many states fought this act, but conformity was inevitable. After this act was ratified, teen alcohol highway fatalities lowered, but teen alcohol related deaths were still steadily happening.
Pg. 3
The graph above shows the drop from 8,707 alcohol related fatalities to 4,595 from 1982 to 2002, that is a 47 percent drop.
Why We Should Lower The Drinking Age
Even with the drop in teen highway fatalities, other countries are still beating the U.S. in that aspect. Below is a graph to show this.
To top it all off, the U.S. has the highest MLDA, Minimum Limit Drinking Age, which is shown in the graph below. Germany, France, and Spain has the lowest MLDA with a limit of 16, while most other countries stick with the 18 age limit.
Pg. 4
There is a reverse correlation here from which MADD is arguing about, it seems as if with countries with a lower MLDA have a lower teen alcohol related traffic casualties. The correlation between earlier exposure to alcohol and lower traffic casualties seems to be present.
I believe that if you expose youths to alcohol at an earlier age than they will be acquainted with alcohol, enough so that they will learn to be more mature and responsible when alcohol is involved. When speaking with a couple of friends from Australia where the MLDA is 18, they say that they do party, but they'd never drive drunk, they always see the older people doing that more than people their own age (Tree, Maganja). To protect the privacy of these friends only their last names shall be revealed. I also think by the age of 18, the legal age of an adult, that by that age people are responsible enough to drink and to realize that they should
Pg. 5
never drive, but instead call a cab, have a designated driver, or simply spend the night. I also believe that if you lower the MLDA then teens would strive so hard to "get away with it", it is reverse psychology, but I believe it will work. The MLDA has lowered teen highway casualties but has it lowered teen alcohol related deaths?
Suzy Raven is around the age of 20 and posted a 2-part article on the i Vory Towerz website, a site that is dedicated to "ILLUMINATING THE CULTURAL CROSSROADS:
Covering culture, politics, music, sports and more"(ivorytowerz.com), she argues that too many teens die from binge drinking and that the age 21 limit just isn't working. She explains that
" It hasn't worked. If raising the drinking age to 21 was truly effective in combating underage binge drinking, 1,700 college students would not die in alcohol related deaths each year. There are a multitude of sad stories, including that of Lynn "Gordie" Bailey, one of several University of Colorado pledges who was encouraged to drink four bottles of whiskey and six bottles of wine in 30 minutes on what is called "bid night" in 2004. The 18-year-old was found dead the next morning"(Raven).
This problem of binge drinking and the deaths involved captured the attention of a former college president.
John Mc Cardell, the former president of Middlebury College in Vermont, started a group known as the "Amethyst Initiative". Mc Cardell started to slowly recruit presidents of other known colleges and called for a change. He thought in a sense to "fight poison with poison" by forming a petition to lower the MLDA to 18. He claims "The 21-year drinking age has not reduced drinking on campuses, it has probably increased it, society expects us to graduate students who have been educated to drink responsibly. But society has severely circumscribed our ability to do that"(Mc Cardell). He believes that binge drinking would be less likely if 18 year olds were allowed to drink in the open with 21 year olds. In a sense, underground drinking
Pg. 6
is deadlier than drinking with proper guidance and observation. He also argues that if teens are taught that drinking should be a casual thing and they grow up being old enough to drink a glass of wine with dinner and their parents, then they are less likely to abuse it. Mc Cardell has been an enemy to the opposing organization MADD.
The Argument Of Why We Shouldn't
An organization known as MADD, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, was formed over 20 years ago. This organization pushed and pushed until the national age 21 policy was eventually and forcefully adopted by the states. This organization soon received what they pushed for, the drinking age was raised in hopes of less alcoholic traffic accidents. On the home page of MADD's website, www.madd.org, they claim that "Since the 21 Minimum Legal Drinking Age law (MLDA) was enacted in 1984, an estimated 25,000 lives have been saved" (www.madd.org). With the last part in bold to make sure they capture your attention, as if their readers are not smart enough to see for themselves. They also go on in a link below the scientific aspects of this law, claiming that the brain does not stop developing till the early twenties. They claim that these test were conducted on animals and adolescent humans by a few named doctors. If this is so, then why do they drunken animals, for their amusement, or even mess with a young human's brain? I understand where MADD is coming from, alcohol is a problem, it causes mental impairment, disrupts pain, and in worst cases can cause death if it is misused. MADD also claims, with the use of these doctors, that drinking before the brain is fully developed it may cause memory problems, as well as excessive drinking can cause organ failures. MADD also has
Pg. 7
three main points on their website, "Underage drinking is the no. 1 youth drug problem in this country. Research shows the earlier youth drink the more likely they are to become alcohol dependent and to drive drunk. About 5,000 people under age 21 die each year due to underage drinking. This does not include sexual assaults, violence and injuries." MADD is not the only organization who wants to keep the law the way it is, but all this fuss has captured the attention of doctors and citizens alike.
Quite a few doctors have mixed feelings about the proposal of lowering the drinking age. David J. Hanson Ph. D, an alcohol policy expert at the State University of New York-Potsdam, said "Raising the drinking age to 21 was passed with the very best of intentions, but it's had the very worst of outcomes, just like during national Prohibition, the law has pushed and forced underage drinking and youthful drinking underground, where we have no control over it" (Hanson Ph. D). He also spoke of when Dr. Ruth Engs and himself, hypothesized the effects of raising the drinking age would have an opposite of the intended effect. (Hanson Ph. D). He also notes "The data from 3,375 students at 56 colleges across the country revealed that, after the legislation, significantly more under-age students drank compared to those of legal age. Thus, the increase in purchase age appears to have been not only ineffective but actually counter-productive, at least in the short run"(Hanson Ph. D). Most other doctors believe the law should remain the same, mentioning the ill effects alcohol has on the human body, mainly the brain. Dr. Engs has her own opinions, one being completely different then any other proposal.
A Nice Happy Median, Or Something Else Altogether?
Pg. 8
Hanson Ph. D interviewed Dr. Ruth Engs to find out some of her opinions on the issue of lowering the drinking age. She responded with "I'd be glad to. I propose that the drinking age be
lowered to about 18 or 19 and permit those of legal age to consume in socially controlled environment such as restaurants and official school and university functions. Currently, we prohibit 20-year-olds from sipping champagne at their own weddings! I also propose that individuals of any age be permitted to consume alcohol under the direct supervision of their parents in their own homes"(Dr. Engs).
She explains that the law is just not working because youths see alcohol as ""forbidden fruit," a "badge of rebellion against authority," and a symbol of adulthood"(Dr. Engs). She stands firmly saying that the law was counter-productive and was worse than doing nothing (Dr. Engs). She also believes that lowering the drinking age will not solve the problem of alcohol abuse but is a much needed step in the right direction. She goes on to state "These proposals are not based on
speculation but on the proven example set by many societies and groups around the world that have long used alcohol extensively with very few problems. On the other hand, our current prohibition directed against the consumption of alcohol by young people (who can marry, serve in the military, vote, enter into legal contracts, and shoulder adult responsibilities) is clearly not working. We need to abandon this failed and demeaning folly and replace it with a proven, realistic, and successful approach to reducing drinking problems"(Dr. Engs).
After all this debating where will it go, will it stay the same, or go back to the way it was over 20 years ago.
Since this issue has been circulating in the news people have different opinions on this issue and how to solve it. I personally believe we should lower it to help prevent binge drinking, and to promote as healthy mean of drinking as possible. Other organizations such as MADD are appalled by the idea and believes the law should remain the way it is. Dr. Engs proposes to abolish the law completely and leave alcohol to parents' control. In the end it is ultimately up to
Pg. 9
the people, and before the decision is made, we need to abolish the part of the act that withholds ten percent of highways funds from the states with lower drinking age. The National government should leave it to the states to decide, and to decide without pressure from the government. Ultimately your opinions are your own and if you would like to learn more of this subject then simply go to www.google.com and type 'lowering the drinking age', and look at one of the many news articles posted, you never know what you may find.
