Gohsman 2
Amanda Gohsman
Kacie Beagen
April 28, 2009
Rough Draft
Nightmare on Elm Street: Lone Assassin or Government Conspiracy?
In the history of the United States, there have been multiple instances in which the people of this nation believe there has been foul play involving the United States government. As the years pass, there have been more questions that arise over what really took place on that Friday afternoon in Dallas, Texas. On November 22, 1963, at approximately 12: 30 pm, President John F. Kennedy's presidential motorcade turned on to Elm Street in Dealey Plaza. There have been many theories produced to explain the events of that horrible day that still haunts the American people who received the news of President John F. Kennedy's death. As the controversy continues over who is responsible for the killing, the theories become even more skeptical and more impossible. Many American people believe that a conspiracy took President Kennedy's life and some believe the government was responsible for this attack on the nation's leader. To these believers, the government was involved, because they chose to seal the missing information for seventy-five years, to not be released until 2039. Although some in America believe the official story that Lee Harvey Oswald shot President Kennedy, because of his communistic ideals, that his rifle was found in the building and his timely fleeing from the Texas School Book Depository; while many believe there was government involvement, because of the inconsistencies in the Warren Commission's report, unrepeatable circumstances and the drive for power.
Some people in the United States believe that Lee Harvey Oswald is responsible for the shooting and killing of President Kennedy. They also believe the information released by the Warren Commission was the facts of what actually took place and that the findings were sealed for the "protection" of all involved. As stated in the Warren Commission's report on the assassination, Oswald shot at Kennedy from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository, on the corner of Elm Street. After the shooting, he was the only person who fled the building, leaving his rifle stashed behind a few boxes next to the window overlooking Elm Street. Oswald was also believed to have ties to the Mafia and communist parties in the U.S.S.R., providing circumstantial evidence, making him a perfect suspect. After piecing together his troubled life the information that was discovered after Oswald was killed, people came to believe that his colorful history lead to his decision to kill Kennedy.
While there are a few people that believe the story that was given by the United States government, "over seventy percent of the American population" believes that a conspiracy took President Kennedy's life (Cook 2003). There are many reasons people believe something more happened and that something was covered up or manipulated. Within hours after the shooting, "the CIA and the FBI were already working strenuously to portray Oswald as a communist agent", intentionally pointing all evidence to someone with a troubled past and knack for weapons to cover the mess that had made by killing Kennedy (Talbot 2007).
In the Warren Commission's report, only three bullets were fired; although interviewed eye witnesses reported hearing four shots fired, not all of them coming from the Book Depository. People who were standing on the Grassy Knoll recall hearing a fourth and final shot from behind the picket fence on the Grassy Knoll. The map shown below is Dealey Plaza, showing where the Book Depository and the Grassy Knoll are in context to where Kennedy's motorcade was when he was fired upon.
In the Warren Commission's report, the first bullet missed the target completely hitting a nearby overpass, it was the third was the one that struck President Kennedy in the back of the head, breaking it into pieces. The mysterious second bullet struck both President Kennedy and Governor John Connally, causing seven wounds in its travel and since November of 1963 has been the leading source of controversy and conspiracy theories.
When testing the "magic" bullet theory, very similar results have been recreated to prove, under certain circumstances, such as speed and movement of the motorcade, that the "magic" bullet theory could very well be possible. The Presidential motorcade was traveling at a relatively low speed, but still moving. All of the tests that have been done have had non-moving or still targets, which upsets the final results. Also, the exact angle that Oswald fired from, could have been slightly different than the angle being used in attempt to reproduce this scene. However, the very similar results means that under very specific circumstances, the "magic" bullet could have actually inflicted the kind of damage to both Kennedy and Connally sustained.
The second bullet's believability is where conspiracy theorists have problems grasping the actual path of the bullet; hence the "magic" bullet. In the diagram from Orwelltoday.com, the route the "magic" bullet took is displayed. In the diagram, it states the magic bullet was shot from the sixth floor window, hit Kennedy in the back, was then deflected upward by the shoulder blade, traveled up to right above where his collar bone and breast bone met, then exited the his body. After exiting the President's body, the bullet continued traveling downward, after it had been moving upward, went through the middle seat and entered Governor Connally's back, right next to his right arm pit. The bullet exited Connally, just below his right nipple, breaking his rib. It then continued into his right wrist, breaking that as well. It was then deflected back into a downward motion, puncturing Connally's left thigh, where the bullet finally came to rest. The bullet, that was said to be responsible for injuring both Kennedy and Connally, was in pristine shape. There is no scientific way that a bullet could have done that much damage to these two men and still be in mint condition. The only way a bullet could retain this condition is by being fired from a gun and landing in its final resting place. Many people have tried to replicate the shot, to get the same results of the "magic" bullet's journey, but none have been successful in getting the bullet to move the way the Warren Commission stated it did. It has also been stated that for a bullet to move in the manor that is presented, it would have had to defy the laws of physics. After being released from the hospital, Connally was questioned about his injuries, and what has now been named the "magic" bullet. He insisted the bullet that hit him was a different bullet than what hit Kennedy (Sharrett 1992).
When the Warren Commission reviewed the report of what happened and the exact bodily injuries that had been inflicted on President Kennedy, the Commission realized that the previous information about the head injury had been inaccurate. The Commission then felt the need to set the record straight and change the official autopsy report. The autopsy report was changed due to the inaccurate information that was provided by the doctors performed the autopsy. Changes such as, the bullet exit wound in President Kennedy's neck that was mistaken as a tracheotomy, a surgical procedure to provide a breathing tube in to the neck, when a tube cannot be passed through the mouth. As well as the large blow out to the back of Kennedy's head, this was not what happened. The wound the bullet made was much smaller and didn't cause the damage was said to have been caused. To shed light on where the bullets had actually penetrated Kennedy's body and to further explain how the magic bullet theory had actually taken place, these changes were made and acted evidence to support the Commissions new claims.
The alteration of the official autopsy report is one aspect that has suggested the government's involvement. The autopsy report explaining Kennedy's cause of death and his injuries was released saying one thing by the doctors at the Maryland Naval Academy. Then, the Warren Commission changed the cause of death and the seriousness of his injuries in the 'official' autopsy report. When the Warren Commission's report was reviewed, there were many inconsistencies between what was explained in the report, and the stories as provided by the eye witnesses', such as the autopsy's pictures of the bullet wounds. The wound on the back of Kennedy's head was changed from being a rather large blow out to a small hole, just the size of the bullet that was "shot" from Oswald's gun. The blow out that caused extreme brain damage and created a gaping hole where skin, bone and brain tissue had been removed. They gave no description or knowledge of the extreme blow out that was seen by everybody in Dealey Plaza at the time Kennedy was shot. In the video, one of the doctors who performed the original autopsy specifically remembers the large hole in the back of Kennedy's head, and when shown the x-rays included in the Warren Commission's report has stated those were not the x-ray he took (youtube.com).
The angle in which the shot that hit Kennedy in the head, the one that ended his life has been up questioned also. In the film that was taken of the actual event, Kennedy's reaction to this shot would suggest that bullet hit from the front and right of Kennedy's creating the blow out of the exit wound in the back left of his head. With this idea that the shot was from the front of Kennedy, the angle in which the bullet was fired is approximately the same as would be the angle from the picket fence at the top of the Grassy Knoll (Calloff 1998).
People have also questioned the involvement of the government because they wanted to become involved in Vietnam, but President Kennedy was unwilling to allow the United States to send troops overseas and go into a situation that would be unbeneficial to the United States. With the government pressuring Kennedy to enter into war against Vietnam, or at least send more troops to ensure the safety of the United States, Kennedy gave in and gradually sent more troops, but did not declare a state of war. This may have been the fatal decision in Kennedy's presidency. Only an hour after President Kennedy had been pronounced dead, Lyndon B. Johnson was sworn into office. The previous vice-president under Kennedy, shortly after taking his new role as President, sent troops over to southern Asia. With little public support, and the government's need to be a powerful force in the world, started the draft. The American people felt the way President Kennedy had on sending troops overseas, the American people were fighting enough amongst themselves; there was no need to participate in a new war.
The gun that was used by Lee Harvey Oswald in the assassination was an "Italian Carcano M91/38 bolt-action rifle" ( Gray 1999). He purchased this "twelve dollar rifle" through a mail order program to a P.O. Box that was registered under a false name (Posner 1999). This was the weapon that was found hidden behind a stack of boxes on the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository, with a partial palm print that matched Oswald's prints. With the palm print and the P.O. Box directly pointing to Oswald, the possibility was concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin in the President John F. Kennedy assassination. Another leading factor of this belief was that while in the Marines, Oswald had been known as an "excellent shot", having almost perfect accuracy in the speed trials for stationary targets. The time that he took to shoot the three shots from the window into Kennedy's motorcade, took approximately "4. 8 to 5. 6 seconds" (Wikipedia).
The rifle that was supposedly used in the assassination of Kennedy was a gun that would need to be manually reloaded for each shot fired. In the time that the three bullets were shot, it would have been almost impossible, and if it was possible, Oswald would have had to be an expert shot. In the last fifty years, many gun experts have tried to duplicate his supposed expert speed and perfect shot to hit President Kennedy, in a moving vehicle that held five other people who were seemingly unbothered. None have been successful in replicating his speed or his accuracy. An "Italian team test-fired the identical model of gun, they were unable to load and fire three shots in less than 19 seconds" , this shows that the times the Warren Commission laid out for Oswald to single handedly fire the three shots at Kennedy is completely unrealistic (Shipman 2007). With this information, it seems highly unlikely that there was only one person shooting at President Kennedy in Dealey Plaza. Also, the partial palm print that was found on the gun could have belonged to anyone. At the time, fingerprinting was nearly impossible to be certain of, and a palm print is hard to get an exact match on, even with the technology available today. Considering the process took place over fifty years ago, the findings were mostly likely deeply flawed.
In their desperate attempt to provide answers to the people of the United States about who killed Kennedy, the Warren Commission left out some very important aspects of the event. They left these topics out or rewrote them, to pinpoint Oswald and to make sure that missing facts or unknown information would not lead people to believe that the government was involved. But as it turns out, the alteration of these situations and the missing information, lead to more people questioning the government. After the completion of the official report, many people believe that "the Warren Commission did a hasty, slipshod job of investigating the Kennedy assassination, leaving many questions unanswered" (Knoll 1992)
In case of emergency, the government has certain requirements it must fulfill to keep the American people in a state of control, in situations that are most likely to create chaos. So the hours following Kennedy being shot, the government was preparing for the worst, preparing vice-president Lyndon B. Johnson for his roles, if the attack on Kennedy turned out to be fatal. The government was merely doing the best job they could, with the situation that had been displayed.
Some conspiracy theorists believe the government set Kennedy up for this attack, therefore the motions had already been set to replace him at first sign trouble. Immediately after President Kennedy was shot, his little brother Robert (Bobby) Kennedy was contacted by the "FBI chief J. Edgar Hoover, of all people, who phoned to tell him [about his brother's death]. 'The President's been shot,' Hoover curtly said. Bobby later recalled, 'I think he told me with pleasure'" (Talbot 2007). With this apparent excitement on the breath of the FBI chief, Bobby Kennedy became the first person to the suspect government's involvement and in the same instance, the first John F. Kennedy conspiracy theorist (Talbot 2007). When Bobby Kennedy began questioning the government's involvement, he also feared that if it were government, he would be the next target. He dedicated the following five years to digging for the truth of who killed John, but his mission was cut short when he, too, was assassinated in 1968.
Although some people believe that the information provided by the government about the assassination of President John F. Kennedy is true, the majority of the American population believes there is something missing from the "official" explanation of what really happened. Only the future will tell what really transpired that fateful day on Elm Street. For now, the question remains, will documents will be released exposing the actual events surrounding the assassination, or will they be lost forever, to hide the governments shocking actions from the world.
