Chinn 1
Brenton Chinn
J. Belknap
ENG 105
4/21/09
Green Vehicles Produced, Consumers Wanted
Oil. What would the world be like without oil? But then again, what has happened to the world since the various uses of oil were discovered? Oil fuels nearly every mode of transportation people commonly used today. Having a source of energy that is easily stored, transported, and extracted, could not come in a more convenient form then oil. However, the tradeoff to this convenient source of energy is the pollution created by using this substance and the foreign wars over the control of this liquid gold. New solutions to reducing, or even eliminating, the use of oil in transportation is already here today. Based on what a person is looking for in a vehicle, some clean technologies that reduce the use of oil include diesel, gas- electric hybrid, and fully electric vehicles. The alternate energy sources used to power these vehicles make them as good, and in more ways, better then commonly used gasoline powered Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs).
The basic intentions of gas powered SUVs today are to tow heavy trailers, while hauling up to 8 passengers, and doing this over rough terrain that would not be crossed by other vehicles. The problems with these vehicles, however, are the amount of oil used and the pollution these vehicles create when they are driven. In the United States, emissions are a huge problem. About one third of all greenhouse gas emissions in the United States are from transportation, and as high as 40 percent in states like California (Lutsey 222).
The solution to an ever-growing problem of pollution from our transportation system, without giving up the capabilities of an SUV, is a clean diesel powered vehicle. Clean diesels are essentially the same as standard diesel engines, with the difference being how the exhaust gasses are handled and cleaned before exiting the vehicle. The most common ways to clean the exhaust systems of these vehicles, is to inject a liquid known as Ad Blue (which is also called urea) into the exhaust system and then filtering it through special catalytic. When the liquid is sprayed, the heat of the exhaust turns the urea into ammonia, which reacts with nitrogen oxides and converts them into harmless nitrogen gas and water vapor (How It Works.). This significantly reduces the harmful emissions the engine would normally produce. So in what other ways are the diesel powered SUVs better then gas SUVs?
What should really count when choosing a vehicle where a large amount of towing is expected, is towing capacity. When diesel vehicles are compared to similar vehicles of their kind, such as the BMW x5 xdrive35d (in which the "d" stands for "diesel") vs. the x5 4.8l V8, the diesel vehicles usually come out on top. In the case of BMW x5's, the diesel version tows 6,500 pounds, which is 500 pounds more then the larger v8 gas powered X5. This is an impressive difference because the gas engine is significantly larger then the diesel with 4. 8 cubic inches of displacement while the diesel only has 3. 0 liters of displacement. The reason this occurs is because diesel fuel contains more stored energy then gasoline. There is approximately 147,000 BTU's (BTU stands for British Thermal Unit and is basically the amount of energy needed to raise one pound of water 1 degree Fahrenheit) compared to 125,000 BTU's for a gallon of gasoline (Brian). The towing capabilities are only part of what makes an SUV so capable.
When comparing the X5 diesel to the standard X5 in terms of cargo room, there is no difference. They both have the same sized cargo are and are capable of holding the same 7 passengers. However, where the diesel pulls ahead is the amount of weight each vehicle is capable of holding. Due to the smaller, and lighter, engine in the X5 diesel, the Gross Vehicle Weight Rating is 500 pounds more. This means that 500 pounds worth of people and cargo can be carried in the diesel, rather then the 3. 0 or 4. 8 liter gas variants. Another slight advantage of a diesel vehicle, such as the X5 diesel, is the cost of the vehicles. The base price for an X5 4.8i is $56,200, while the diesel has a base price of $51,200 (The BMW X5).
Some people may argue the cost of diesel-powered vehicles and say that the lower cost of the vehicle is offset by the higher price of diesel fuel. This is simply not true. The cost of diesel fuel is currently $2. 20 on average, and the cost of gasoline as $2.05. With an average EPA fuel consumption rating of 22. 5 gallons, the diesel would use approximately $9,777. 78 worth of fuel over a 100,000-mile "life" cycle. The cost of fuel for a 4. 8 X5 would be approximately $12,424. 24 based on an average rating of 16. 5 miles per gallon over a 100,000-mile cycle. Clearly, diesel engines are better then comparable gas engines in nearly every aspect, but not every one needs a vehicle that can tow one and a half times it's weight, which is where the gas-electric hybrid comes into play.
In the year 2000, the first gas-electric hybrid vehicle, the Honda Insight, quietly rolled into showroom floors. Since the debut of this innovative technology, the hybrid vehicle has grown into all sorts of shapes and sizes from the iconic Toyota Prius, to the gargantuan Chevrolet Tahoe Hybrid. The basic concept of a hybrid vehicle is to use electricity help propel the vehicle while accelerating, reducing the need for the gas engine. There is also significant gas savings when hybrid vehicles accelerate gently because there is no need for the gas motor until the vehicle reaches a certain speed (usually around 30-40 miles per hour). It's a simple concept but the complexity of the vehicle goes far beyond that of any other mass produced vehicle.
The gasoline components of a hybrid are the same as in a regular gasoline vehicle, but the addition of electric parts are what complicate things. These additions include; a battery, regenerative brakes, an electric motor, and an electronic control module. When a hybrid vehicle accelerates, the gas and electric motor (which is feed by the battery) both work to propel the vehicle up to speed. But the battery is not in unlimited supply, and hybrids are never plugged in to an electric power source. So this leaves the question, where does the electricity come from?
The answer is found through the examination of the regenerative brakes. When modern hybrid vehicles are coasting, or the brakes are applied, the electric motors are geared to spin in reverse, which generates electricity that is eventually stored in the battery (What is Regenerative Braking?). Where power is normally lost in standard gas vehicles, it is recovered and reused in the complex braking systems of hybrid vehicles.
These components of hybrid vehicles when compared to gas vehicles, make them better when considering the crisis of emissions and dependence on oil. Truly dedicated hybrids, such as the Toyota Prius, gets a combined estimated gas mileage rating of 46 miles per gallon ("Toyota Prius - 2009 Performance & Specifications."). But less formal hybrids such as the Chevrolet Tahoe Hybrid get only 21 miles per gallon, due to the vehicles excessive size and weight. When compared to the standard gasoline Tahoe, however, the hybrid poses a real threat in fuel economy numbers. The conventional gas Tahoe gets a combined estimated fuel economy rating of 15 miles per gallon "(Chevrolet). A combined 6-gallon difference may not sound like much, but over a 100,000-year life cycle, there will be just over 1,900 gallons of fuel saved.
Despite the amount of fuel saved, there is still the argument that the premium cost of hybrid vehicles is too much to be outweighed by the cost of fuel saved. This is true for several auto manufacturers that are just beginning to produce hybrids such as Chevrolet, Porsche, and Mercedes Benz. However, there is always a cost premium with any new product or technology.
An example would be DVD players. When the technology of DVD players first hit the market, they cost at least $400. Nowadays a person can walk into an electronics store and find a DVD player for $40 or less.
So the same is true when it comes to hybrid vehicles. For companies that have had Hybrids around for several years, such as Toyota and Honda, the demand for these vehicles has gone up and the price has since decreased. Time and increased demand of other hybrid vehicles are the only factors that can drive the price of these vehicles down. If the price of a hybrid is what may be keeping a person from buying one, then they need to understand another type of satisfaction these vehicles can provide.
This sense of satisfaction comes in the form of cleanliness for the environment. Hybrid vehicles not only save large amounts of fossil fuels from being burned, they also are some of the cleanest fuel-burning vehicles in the world today. Typical hybrids such as the Lexus LS600h, the Toyota Highlander Hybrid, Chevrolet Tahoe Hybrid, along with others receive an EPA status of ULEV. ULEV stands for Ultra Low Emission Vehicle and is awarded to vehicles that emit exhaust gasses that are 50% cleaner then the average vehicle produced during the year that vehicle was manufactured. More dedicated hybrids such as, again, the Toyota Prius and the Honda Insight get a rating of SULEV. SULEV stands for Super Ultra Low Emission Vehicle and is awarded only to vehicles that emit exhaust gasses that re are 90% cleaner than other vehicles manufactured within the same year. The cleanliness of hybrids goes unmatched by all except one other type of vehicle that is currently produced today, the electric vehicle.
"In the late 1890s electric vehicles (EVs) outsold gasoline cars ten to one" (Electric). However, with the breakthrough of the factory assembly line for gasoline vehicles, and the lack of electric infrastructure anywhere outside of major cities, the EV could not survive as a viable product (Electric). With the instability of modern oil prices and a growing concern for global climate change, EVs are making a come back once again (This type of come back was attempted in the late 1990's but ended abruptly in 2003 when the manufacturers of electric vehicles retrieved and destroyed nearly all electric vehicles produced). Today, a small privately owned company that is based out of California called Tesla Motors is leading the way for electric vehicle technology.
Tesla currently produces an exciting sports car called the Tesla Roadster which is both fast and efficient for several reasons. To understand why EVs are fast and efficient, one must understand how they work. An electric vehicle is somewhat simple, with the main components being a battery and an electric motor (and sometimes a transmission). EVs are ultra efficient because there is minimal power lost when electricity is delivered from the battery, and there is far less moving parts compared to a gasoline engine. In a gasoline engine, friction is created throughout the entire driveline starting with the moving of pistons, to the spinning of belts, and the rotating of several driveline components. In an electric vehicle, the only moving parts are typically the electric motor's drive shaft that either sends power directly to the wheels or through a transmission and then to the wheels, creating far less friction. The reason EVs are so fast, in terms of acceleration, is due to the way the motor delivers power. When an electric motor is fed power, the full available amount of torque is instantly created. Torque is defines as "The moment of a force; the measure of a force's tendency to produce torsion and rotation about an axis, equal to the vector product of the radius vector from the axis of rotation to the point of application of the force and the force vector" (Torque). In more simple terms torque is defined as a twisting or turning force. This gives vehicles such as the Tesla Roadster an advantage in acceleration, which is why it can travel from 0-60 miles per hour in under 4 seconds (Tesla). The large battery pack in the Tesla Roadster also give it a driving range that no other electric vehicle could previously provide at 220 miles (estimated by the EPA).
This extended range, along with other components, are part of an argument made against the production of electric vehicles. It is said that having a vehicle that runs off of electricity only "extends the exhaust pipe" to the site where the electricity is produced. What this means is that if fossil fuels such as coal were used to produce electricity that charges the vehicle, then the vehicle is not clean and because pollution was emitted from the source of the power. This is true in some instances, but can easily be offset by charging the vehicle using clean renewable sources such as wind and solar power.
Pollution and the excessive use of fossil fuels are major problems in not only the United States but also the entire world today. 30% to 40% of greenhouse gas pollution in the United States comes from transportation. To reduce the amount of Fossil Fuel used and Pollution emitted into the air, people need to buy more clean vehicles such as Clean Diesels, Hybrids, and Electric Vehicles. Diesels provide occupants with a clean vehicle that is more efficient, and capable then gasoline versions of the same model. Hybrids are some of the cleanest vehicles around but still provide the pleasure of filling up a fuel tank quickly whenever. Arguably the cleanest vehicle produced today, electric vehicles are making a strong come back since their failed attempt in 2003, by providing occupants with a fast and enjoyable ride. With these choices in alternative fuels, it is easy to say that the future for the automobile industry is to focus on vehicles that reduce the use of fossil fuels and pollute far less then excessively wasteful vehicles of the past.
