Corporate Greed 2
Corporate Greed
Juilian Hardy
Ms. Clark
Enron was the first major collapse in the 21 Century. The lack of oversight in this industry is what assist to kill in the financial sector of Wall Street. The companies before the financial crisis and the increase of new regulations did not have to disclose so much information. That followed the same steps of accounting fraud dishonest reporting of firms' documents. For a person who does not understand what accounting fraud is about, it is called "cooking the books." This means making false statements in the quarterly financial report released to the shareholders. Many experts believe that the economic crisis that we are in could be foreseen by looking at the practices of Enron and World Com and other companies. What happened first was that these companies lost the confidence of shareholders, which caused government concern and they took action fast. The government had to regulate the industry to assure shareholders that the same mistake would not happen again. I can show that currently, the American people are going through a different economic crisis within the same industry. The movements now are trying to prevent this crisis from happening again. Many are asking whether greed is too much of a problem in the accounting industry. Is this just a part of human behavior that cannot be fixed? Is there any regulation that the government can do to stop greed in the private sector or on Wall Street? It seems that greed and taking advantage of others to "get ahead" will never go away, but there are currently enough laws on the books to prevent this greed from getting out of hand. However, there is not currently enough enforcement of these laws and regulations to protect shareholders from dishonest financial reporting. Americans should look across the sea at foreign alternatives to restructure our corporate governance. Their positive corporate structure in other countries that did not face the same problems we have here in America.
The regulations that the government had done in the financial sector was in1930s when major reform took place because the stock market had crashed. The government set up two different agencies to oversee the massive financial sector that was so unregulated. The two agencies are SEC and the Federal Reverse bank. "Process capitulated the breakdown process of the effective agency monitoring mechanisms". (Enron: an examination of agency problems) They were stop from the crisis from happening again. The last time the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) had a major effect in this industry was in the 1930s. This agency is to insure investors that the financial reporting is good and to prevent scandals from happening on Wall Street. They are to double check every financial report with a company on Wall Street. SEC never caught Madoff who operated the largest Ponzi scheme in American history. The SEC had the chance to stop Madoff in 2005 he was under investigation by Markopolos expressed "action against Madoff for several years, culminating in 2005 with his memo to the SEC entitled "The world's largest hedge fund is a fraud", where he listed 29 'red flags' to support his contention"(BSC theory of superconductivity: the worlds largest Maddoff scheme).. Instead his own family turned him in to the authorities. It was the current financial situation that brought him in down. People took advantage of people that did not fully understand the market.
Many people belief in that the SEC and Wall Street have a love affair with each other. Appendix A shows the relationship between the SEC and corporations, and between the Federal Reserve Bank. Person that come from the SEC are those from Wall Street that still have their contacts. The government never caught any problems within the financial industry. Even until today with our current crisis the SEC has never been able to stop the problems on Wall Street. Many of the executives at the top of the agency did not want to hurt their colleagues down the street that make big money. The person at the bottom of the food chain at the SEC does the hard investigate work and have the resources to fix small problems before they became big problems. When investigators look in to companies operate on the stock market to check if the financial reporting meets the SEC standards. Since the agency has been around it has never caught a big scandal. This is the reason why Congress and other branches of the government are not sure if the SEC should even exist.
Enron was one of the first companies that did collapses of the world top companies. Their failure is not due to the same financial crisis that we have to today. This was mainly because of corporate greed. As shown in figure 1. Enron would set up special purpose entities (SPEs). This give Enron the opportunity to have limited partnership outside parties; than Enron increase leverage assets hind the debt of Enron did not need to report debt report on financial balance. The hard assets would be exchange for ownership interest in the Enron Corporation. Enron was able to raise capital that was needed from investors. The monster that Enron had created for itself was able began to fall short while after the SPEs where created and the investors wanted supplementary shares in Enron. Shareholder that had no relation to the SPEs investors never saw the double conflict of interest. "Shareholders that Enron were lemon stock rather than faith stock" (The Effect of Enron, Andersen, and Sarbanes-Oxley on the Market for Audit Services). Innocent people never could see the major collapse coming.
Figure 1 show. Data Source "Enron: an examination of agency problems"
When these companies failed (Enron/World Com) so did their employees' funds they put in the company's stock. They lost everything that they had worked so hard for and lost it within the company that had no moral values or ethics towards their employee. " Enron would promote ethics at work while at the same time they would employees to have high performance and if they did not that employee would be fired." This company did not practice what it preached to their employee. When the employee did not receive a fair notice that the company was going into bankruptcy it hurt them the most. While the general public especially those who did invested their whole life savings and retirement funds and lost their jobs. These people were left with nothing at all they did not receive a warning from top management that the company was in danger of failing. . To be out of a job and lose life savings or even retirement would be hard on any family. Most reports that we read about mostly how much money the investor money. The people that should be blame for this financial crisis are executives and management teams at these companies and the lack of oversight from the corporations.
In reaction to the Enron and World Com scandals, two Congressmen that chair the financial committees in the House and the Senate helped push for corporate responsibility, audit independence and heightened financial disclosure wrote the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This was also created to stop the companies' top executives from committing accounting fraud on their financial reports. That greed that does exist within the human behavior nature does not affect the decision making. The concern is these top executives just want a big return on their investment and a bonus at the end on the year. The opportunistic behavior cannot exist with the people involved industry. What the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires is for Companies to be more honest on their financial statements and they have to send a copy to congress and shareholders at the end of the financial quarter.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2001 initiated the post-Enron period and changed the way accounting firms had to do business within the industry. It changed how small firms cannot audit big firms and only the big four accounting firms are allowed to audit big Companies. The cost or the fees to have a companies' financial report increase within two years. When this act was passed there were either accountants or auditors to meet the demands. Salaries for these professions because of the new regulations on financial reporting changed.. With the current state of the economy people's confidence in the financial sector is down. Public companies feel that the new requirements have a major increase and feel that it could hurt the small firm's growth.
The one factor that is a comparison between the two different financial crises is that people committed fraud with financial statements. Both also share the lack of public education for shareholders. Corporate meltdowns change how Americans trust Wall Street and government agencies that failed to protect the public. There are so many different laws that try to prevent corporate governances from being dishonest to shareholders. "Legal constraints cannot bind tightly enough to prevent all deceptive and larcenous behavior and that most corporate governance institutions ultimately rely on the cooperative, honest, and trustworthy behavior of the leaders in organizations," stated by Margaret Blair (Post-Enron Reflection on Comparative Corporate Goverance). Some people may wonder what the world would be like without greed.
The corporate greed has always been around since Adam Smith wrote the book Wealth of Nations. The corporations do need some type of oversight. Experts in the industry say that greed and capitalism go hand in hand. When the industry is well regulated and balanced, capitalism does help expand our economy. In the recent years it has been out of control and has lost the confidence of the general public. During this time period, many corporations' executives were allowed and encouraged to take large stock options. Managers and directors did not always have the best interest of the shareholders in investments. The perks and the big bonuses in 2001 came under more regulations between huge collapses of Enron, World Com, and Tyco. The shareholders at this point lost about 33 billion dollars by the end of 2002. CEOs, top executives, with other outside accounting firms, fraudulent(verb) accounting practices just to show that the company had good revenue. This problem was a major concern for President Bush. He was quoted saying these words at an economic conference, "he was 'concerned about the economic impact of the fact that there are some corporate leaders who have not upheld their responsibility'" (pg. 28 Time Magazine) . The poor governance of some corporations was making the economy worse. The federal Reveres were unable to raise interest rate during this period. The decision does not only affect the corporations but also the hard working American.
In the 1980s is when CEOs compensation was based off of the size of the company and the stock options. It became a competition who can expand the company the largest by acquiring smaller companies. Many CEOs did not focus on the main operations of the corporations. Once the CEOs had their Empire and gain a larger compensation, they did not care about the owners (shareholders) interest The shareholders did not care because they had more money in the stock market that they could retire off from. With the corporations' profits going unnoticed, the build lavish firm and took retreats has the expensive of the company. Even when the companies were going into trouble, they kept spending money.
Shareholders, if joined together, could have ousted managers and directors to change their practices and to have an interest in the shareholders. This would have cost shareholders too much money to kick them out. Shareholders did not proceed in this matter but wanted to reform this very unique relationship. The employees that ran the day to day operation did not have the same interest as those who owned the company.
In 1992 Security and Exchange Commission made revision to the disclosure of executive compensation. The corporation has to give shareholders in detail full compensation of the top executives. This has added more pressure to the top executives to perform at a higher standard. It does not change the way how the company is valued. This just helped the shareholder know how much the executives are being paid and the perks that they received.
The 1934 Act that established the Security and Exchange Commission was to stop the false reporting of public companies. One of the major factors of the 1929 stock market crash was that investors were insider trading, which raised the values of the stock because investors were not keeping track on record the new stock price. In 1934 insider trading became illegal in the United States and it has become one of the hardest convictions to bring to trial. Martha Sewart fall victim to this crime a few years ago. The act that stop investors and other people that work on wall street from committing this crime. Human nature must be stronger than men law to preventing fraud.
There is nothing that seems to work when it comes to corporate greed in America. Germans have a great corporate structure. The German structure has two govering boards. One board oversees the mangers to make sure their ethics is good. The other board does the day to day operations. Internally they have the opportunity to stop corruption from happening. The Germans have only had a few collapses in recent history with a few companies collapses in the 1980's. People here in America see Germans systems with some reform to public companies. As away to share the control of the company with a check and balance system.
Great Britain has a similar corporate structure that we have here in the States. In their system they have two top executives that share the power. This has help people from being more controlling and allows a second view, with two people sharing the responsibility. Once again it allows the people to have a check and balance in place to make corporate decisions. United States corporate governance does need some type of reform. Maybe shareholders should take explainable for other countries that have had less people.
The people should take charge of the economy that needs to be fixes. The American people have been asking for some type of reform to happen to how our public companies treat the shareholders (owners). With the current situation that we are in the decision of the managers and directors make have lasting decision on the company and even on our economy. Whether or not human nature can ever pass greed and be honest to themselves and people around them. America's founders build this country opportunity and greed. Moral notions like greed develop within us and, because human development is necessarily social, within the communities in which we live. Does this gives us a excuse for bad behavior. The America people need to stand up for they talk to government leaders and to their top executives that they voted or hired to work for them. Until the shareholder and the general public that see a problem with greed will be able to have the results that they are looking for.
Appendix A
Set Interest rates and monetary policy
Security and Exchange Commission: Created to check financial reporting for public Companies.
;
The Federal Reserve Bank : Is the National Bank. Have 12 regional offices to monitor the banking system
Monitor Wall Street
The Federal Government:
President Appoints and Senate Confirms.
Work Cited
Ronen, Joshua (2002). Post-Enron Reform: Financial Statement Insurance, and GAAP Re-visited. Pages 20
Sharad Asthana, Steve Balsam, and Sungsoo Kim (2004). The Effect of Enron, Andersen and Sarbanes-Oxley on the Market for Audit Services. Pages 22
Margaret M. Blair 2002. Post -Enron Reflections on Comparative Corporate Governance. Pages 7
http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/0901/0901.4099v1.pdf
http://www.independent.org/pdf/tir/tir_13_03_1_Kurdas.pdf
