Walker | 9
Christian Walker
Ms. Divine
English 105
April 27, 2009
The Importance of Greed: Why Capitalism Works Best
Capitalism is often seen to be an economic system characterized by greed. The idea of greed being an essential motivator of capitalism does not imply that greed must be defined by its typically negative connotations, but instead characterizes greed as being a desire for success. This desire brings about economic efficiency and improves the standard of living by inspiring innovation and facilitating cooperation to bring products to people for a profit. Consider the wooden pencil for instance. Leonard Read, the founder of the Foundation for Economic Education, described the origins of the wooden pencil in his short story I, Pencil. My Family Tree. (Read 1) He discussed the many materials and separate industries necessary to make pencils. Lumber industry workers must work with manufacturers to supply the wood. Pencil manufacturers must also work with the mining industry so that they may acquire the necessary graphite used to make the lead of the pencil. Construction workers that created and poured the concrete to construct the dam used to power the millions of dollars of manufacturing equipment must also be considered as playing a role in the making of a pencil. From the dust sweepers keeping factory floors clean to the chemists that blended the lacquer used to coat the pencil and mixed the oils used to create the eraser, many people play essential yet infinitesimally small roles in the production of a pencil. What inspires all of these people to work together so seamlessly towards one cause? It is not out of altruism or benevolence that these people work so hard to supply pencils to the world, but rather it is the voracity of their greed that drives them to cooperate. The concept that greed is an underlying factor in the voluntary cooperation of people to create things is the basis of capitalism. It is for this reason that capitalism and its tendency towards facilitating free market economies is an efficient economic ideology.
Merriam-Webster's dictionary defines capitalism as an economic system characterized by private ownership of capital goods and by prices, production, and the distribution of goods that are determined mainly by competition in a free market economy (Merriam-Webster's). A free market is an economic market characterized by free competition, meaning that the naturally occurring demand of people in relating to the unregulated supply of producers determines the price that goods are bought for and the quantity of goods that are sold. Members of a capitalist society, in their attempts to satisfy their propensity towards accommodating for themselves and their families, are motivated to use their individual skills to work together because it is profitable. They are able to decide for themselves what they want to produce together because Individual freedom facilitates a market economy. In this system, people are completely free to decide how they would like to put their income to use. Since the idea of a perfectly free market economy is merely a model and therefore cannot exist in its purest form as an actual economic system, it is best to view this argument theoretically. It is the economic principles behind this theoretical free market that makes it so effective.
