Amanda S. Parker
4-30-09
Eng 105
Extended argument.
Marriage: Government control
Protest sign by Giulia Rozzi
Why is getting married such a big deal? You have to find a site, a caterer, some one to perform the ceremony, the right clothes, the right invitations, not to mention the perfect mate. But, what if your perfect mate is the same gender as you? The wedding and the family you dreamed of as a child may never happen because you fell in love with some one the same sex as you. In most states in the U.S. do now allow same gender couples to get married or even have the same rights as a married couple. A simple constitutional right is being denied because of religious and political short comings. As the sign sais, "Love is not about gender"(Rozzi) The debate about being gay, lesbian, bi-sexual, and trans-gendered has been a hot topic since people have been coming out of the proverbial closet. They have been treated as a second class citizen in a country that preaches equality. Why is the government governing who people are allowed to love? Every one should be treated equally with the same privileges and responsibilities.
Deigning rights to people who are different than the cultural "norm" is against what the idea of the United States of America stands for. Fear tactics have been used by people to try and keep those they think as other or different away from themselves and their family, in fear that those they hold precious will change in ways they do not understand. The fear of change, the unknown and the unwillingness to understand that which is different is what is keeping the anti-gay movement alive and well. Land of the free should mean that every one is free, even to fall in love with whom ever they chose, be it a man or woman. No one should be punished for loving some one.
What is marriage? Marriage is a rather confused word in today's society. There are arguments that marriage is what two people do when they love each other and want to spend the rest of their lives together. Other arguments state that marriage is a holy union between a man and a woman. Even the Merriam-Webster dictionary seems a little confused on the subject. "(1): the state of being united to a person of the opposite sex as husband or wife in a consensual and contractual relationship recognized by law (2): the state of being united to a person of the same sex in a relationship like that of a traditional marriage (same-sex marriage)". (www.merriam-webster.com) For one word there are two different worlds of meaning. One world where only people fitting a certain type can be joined and is recognized by the law and another world where the other couple can only pretend to be joined and the law does not recognize their union. At the moment, there are two ways for couples to get married, through the church and through the law.
The church, or any organized religion, have the ability to legally wed people. A large number of religions, but not all, have problems wedding same sex couples. Some religions see homosexuality as inherently wrong and evil. Those religions do not want to support living in sin by marring same sex couples. The church believes that Man was made for Woman and Woman was made for Man. Any thing out of that pattern is wrong and should not be supported. There are some religions and preachers who believe that there is nothing wrong with homosexuality and are willing to marry same sex couples. Unfortunately, these religions and preachers are not mainstream, thus seem few and far between.
Marriage by the law is more common for people who do not want to do weddings and all the fan fare. The justice of the peace have the power to legally wed people. While it may not be holy matrimony it is still a viable option for those with little money or want little fuss. Even in the simplistic way of entering the marriage state is barred to same sex couples. So far, three states, Iowa, Massachusetts, and Vermont, allow same sex marriages, New Mexico and Rhode Island do not have laws banning same sex marriage, but they are not allowing it either, Washington state bans same sex marriages but does give couples some rights. (http://marriage.about.com) Most states refuse to acknowledge marriage licenses for same sex couples issues from other states.
Not every one wants to or is suited get married. Some people, both heterosexual and homosexual, would rather stay single. Married life is just not for them. For them, the case of whether or not to get married does not really apply. The marriage concern applies to those who are ready and willing to make a long term commitment. "I don't mean that every one needs to get married, or that anyone who is not married a blighted life" (Rauch 59). To be given a choices of whether or not one want or can be married should be up to the individuals involved, not any one else. The United States claims to be a free country, but is it really free? When you can not even chose on whether or not to get married. People have immigrated to this country for freedom and to make their own choices, does the government really have this right to go against founding principles? Not long ago it was illegal for people of different ethnicities to get married. Now mixed race couples are common. Hopefully soon accepting people and who they love for who they are and not what they are will be the social norm. What this really boils down too is the freedom of choice. With out that, the government becomes what American ancestors tried to escape.
Legalizing same sex marriages would be beneficial in the areas of health care, real states, and wills. Right now most places do not see same sex partners as they would marriage partners. When admitted to a hospital the partner is not allowed to take care of paper work, have any say in medical treatment, or even allowed to see their loved one until the doctor gives general visitation rights. "Marriage has more benefits from the government. This includes simple things like tax deductions, but it also means very important things as well. Things such as visiting one's partner in the hospital when they are ill or injured, and making decisions on their behalf if they cannot" (Earp Interview). Companies that have family extended health plans do not cover same sex partners. The employee will get coverage, but his or her partner is stuck on their own. In his book Why Marriage? George Chauncey shares the story of what one man went though when his partner of ten years died. "After Miguel Braschi's partner died, his land lord tried to evict him out of their rent controlled apartment so he could raise the rent for new tenants, something forbidden in the case of live in spouse or child" (Chauncey 102). When a partner dies, the survivor does not get treated as a widow or widower. Real estate, even if it is in both names is often taken away from the survivor, wills often get disputed by estrange families and the grieving partner is left with nothing but pain, insecurity, and looking for a new home.
With same sex partners being allowed to marry and given the same rights and responsibilities as different sex couples. There would be more medical coverage and security, wills of the deceased will better protect those left behind, and they will not be forced out of the home by people who do not understand. The death of a loved one is hard enough with out being treated as a freak with no say when your loved one was dying.
Along with making medical procedures easier, less arguing about who can see the patient and why, and fair to all families; legalizing same sex marriages in the long run will help build more understanding and tolerance in the next generations. People are not going to change prejudice over night, but the children of same sex families will grow up and have children, have a better understanding, and other children will have a better understanding though them. My generation my not see the completion of the change but we can defiantly start the change.
Discrimination against people have been a human trait as far back as history records go. Nations went to war with another nations because they did not believe the same thing. People annihilated or enslaved other people because they looked different, had different cultures, beliefs, or just because they disagreed with them. As modern day humans, I would like to believe that they, as a whole, are better than humans of the past. That as a whole they are more tolerant of those who are different in either looks, beliefs or cultures. America was founded by people looking for religious freedom, then fought for financial freedom, and fought for freedom of all her people. Slowly America has worked for the freedom for every American. Over the years many battles, not just wars, but political. Separation of church and state, African American freedom and equality, Woman's equality, and many other battles fought not by soldiers, but normal citizens wanting the world to be a better place for every one.
The war for true freedom and equality is far from over. Yes, things are better over all, but true equality has yet to be achieved. Not every one is treated equally and given the same rights. Most people take it for granted that if they some day want to if they meet the love of their life, that they can get married, have a family and live the American dream. But, for gay and lesbian couples, they don't get that privilege. What seems to be a right for every one is actually a privilege for being heterosexual. Getting married and having a family, and even having a good job with job security is not even a likely chance. Why? Because they happen to love some one of their own gender. Simple choices are made harder then they should be, because society has labeled them as bad because they are different than what was brought up to be the social norm.
America until fairly recently was mainly Christian; Baptist, Catholic, Protestant, or some other branch, but generically Christian. Many of the social values stem from Christian religion. What is not taken into account is that many people are not Christian. This is becoming a flaw in the legal system, which, from the beginning wanted to keep church and state separate. The state could not rule the church and the church could not rule the state. The flaw is that the law assumes that every one believes or should believe the same religion. I am not arguing, that all laws that were based on religion should be removed. The law based on the commandment "Thou shalt not kill" (Exodus 20:13) is a good one to keep. The law system has been trying to take the religion out of the law and leave in place laws that will benefit society as a whole.
As for the argument against same sex marriages, most of the protagonist use the Bible to support their arguments. James Q. Wilson uses a passage from Leviticus about how a man shall not lie with mankind as would womankind, in his argument against homosexual marriage. (Wilson 286) "Adam and Eve not Adam and Steve" is a favorite chant of people who believe homosexuality is wrong. One person's beliefs should not rule another person's life. A belief system is for how a person is to run their own life, not their neighbor's life.
The fear of something different runs strong in human nature, fear may have helped our species as a whole to survive back in the early days of when we were still learning about the world, but fear of some one because some one is different does not help. That fear is projected into the children and propagated by the parents.
As it stands right now, a same sex couple can not adopt children, because some people believe that the child will grow up gay. There is no gay ray. Children of heterosexual couples have just as much chance of being homosexual as children of Homosexual couples. If being raised by gay parents make the child gay then being raised by straight parents should make the child straight. "Studies by sociologists and child psychologists showed that children raised by homosexual parents were no different than children raised by heterosexual parents". (Chauncey 106) Homosexuality is not a failure on a parents part and not because some one willed that child to be gay.
Children should be raised in a loving and nurturing family whether the parents be opposite sex or same sex. "A wide body of research shows that children of gay and lesbian couples thrive in loving homes" (Cahill 33) People who should never be allowed near children, molesters, abusers, negligent people are free to get married and breed like rabbits, while people who are naturals with children, who are understanding, care for, love, and want children are not allowed to because they happen to love some one of the same sex.
There are many horror stories of abusive fathers, neglectful mothers, even foster parents treating their foster kids horribly, float in the stories of people's past. Yes, there are wonderful mothers, fathers, and foster parents, but they are not wonderful because of who they love, they are wonderful because they are good people. Many children are sent to orphanages and adoption agencies, but there are not enough people who can adopt, and often the ones who do want a baby that looks like them. Every child should be loved and be cared for by a person who generally wants to raise a child, and is capable of caring for him or her. Laws against same sex couples adopting children reduces the chance for a happy family for every one.
According to the Fourteenth Amendment, "No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property" (www.usconstitution.net) These laws forbidding same sex couples to marry goes directly against the Constitution of the United States of America. To continue to do so will leave open opportunities for the government to control more of who Americans can be and what Americans can do. Allowing same sex marriages is more than just allowing a group of people to enjoy the security that most other Americans enjoy and bringing more stability in the lives of every one though less conflict and strife of people fighting for their rights as an American. This is a fight for all Americans to stand up and say, 'This is our home, We have the right to live our lives.' The government, the people Americans put into power is seeking to control those same Americans. To quote the movie V for Vendetta "The people should not be afraid of their government, but their government afraid of their people." .(V for Vendetta) Meaning that the people who elected those politicians into office should have the power over the elected, not the other way around. The House of Representatives should be just that, representatives.
