Owan 1
Cassy Owan
Ms Beagen
Eng 105
29 March 2009
Hip Hop: A Negative Reflection of Culture
Since the late seventies, when hip-hop culture came onto the music scene, the music has entertained people with a fresh and fun sound. It all started with the Sugar Hill Gang and their song "Rapper's Delight" in 1979. Since then hip-hop has come a long way, becoming a mainstream phenomena especially with the younger people of the United States. Today hip-hop is a very popular music genre that has branched off into its own subculture of the younger generation. Since it's beginnings the major themes of hip-hop music have become money, cursing violence and women. These themes have negative repercussions, sending out exploitive messages and promoting bad behavior. Hip-hop music has a negative effect on the culture of the United States by exploiting everyone and everything involved in the industry.
Hip-hop first started out with the light, funk style music of the Sugar Hill Gang then moved into more rap with artist like Ice-T and Run DMC. Then moved all the way to today's big hitters of the industry like 50 cent and Ludacris. When it first broke into the music industry hip-hop was a mellow version of rap as it is known today. The way the music was presented was not as harsh and violent as it is now. "The groundbreaking and revolutionary pump-your-fist sound track for Black folks that hip-hop once provided is no more." (Burt, 2008) Today many of the artist have based their music off of loud bass and harsh sounds that have a different vibe than past composition styles. It's arguable that all music changes throughout time, which is a true fact; although, the hip-hop rhythm of today has changed into a harsh listening style that is more damaging than good.
The media is a great way to promote companies and support music, however when explicit movies and extreme tabloids are able to be seen by all ages, it can have a detrimental effect on a viewer. The way hip-hop has broken its way into the media is quite remarkable. Hip-hop music plays on commercials, ads on billboards are being taken over by hip-hop influences. All of this only leaks hip-hop into the knowledge of everyone. Whether people realize it or not they are affected and influenced by the media. If a celebrity says that something is cool, then the product is known as cool by a large number of the population. This mostly affects younger age groups because they are easily influenced. For example, in recent tabloids, magazines and celebrity news, Chris Brown got into an altercation with his girlfriend Rhianna and he physically abused her. Both of these young stars are extremely popular in the hip-hop world and popular with young kids of all ages. Young kids look up to Brown and think he's cool, seeing him in the media as an abuser could make them believe that if they did something like that it would make them more like Chris Brown. Movies like Eminem's "8 Mile" have violent connotations both between young adults and abusive relationships. People who see these types of movies are exposed to the mentality that you have to beat others up to get ahead in life. In reality, these are just movies but they have more of an influence on younger audiences. A counterargument is that there are ratings to television and movies, which is true but the media is constantly bombarding American's everyday lives; making it hard for anyone not to be infuenced.
Mostly all hip-hop inspired clothing sends out an antiestablishment message to others. Clothing is a major part of the hip-hop industry because it gives off a certain status. This is especially important for black folks because the way a person dresses and wears his/her hair are very strong symbols of black expression (USA Today). Basic hip-hop attire consists of baggy clothing; pants that are falling down and an oversized shirt for men. For women, it's clothing that is often revealing, leaving little if any to the imagination. Artists like Lil' Kim have worn next to nothing to countless award shows, showing off her body to everyone whether they want it see it or not. Throughout its initiation into the music world, hip-hop has had a unique style of clothing. Hip-hop attire has always been different, since it first started becoming a new trend in the late seventies. Many may argue that clothing is a way of self- expression and this is a true, although clothing should be somewhat conservative. It's not proper etiquette to see someone's underwear or butt when they are walking down the street. Just because a person wants to wear obscene clothing doesn't make it okay.
Lyrics can make or break a hit song. Having the right words in any music can make all the difference. The words in many hip-hop songs involve words like "hoe" and "nigger". These terms send out a message of disrespect to both women and African Americans. Some may argue that everyone has a freedom of speech to be able to be creative in ways they want. However, by writing songs with explicit and defiling lyrics its possible that artist could be reversing equality that many have worked to achieve throughout the years. African Americans have had to fight for their equality throughout the civil rights movement. Women have also had to overcome struggles for their rights as well. Because both of these groups have had to overcome hardships to gain respect, the use of insolent language towards makes the groups take a step back in the progress that was made. "Another reason for the usage stems from a perceived inability of Black people to define themselves."(Beasley, 2007) This quote is talking about how African Americans were slaves and they lost their identity and now are trying to figure out who they are as a people. This is one explanation to why these lyrics are appearing in the hip-hop and rap songs of today.
Music videos were introduced by MTV in the eighties. This was a way for artists to not only make more money but make a better connection with their fan base while mastering two medias in one. This was a problem from the beginning because people would be their favorite artists and want to dress like them, and emulate their actions. This is the same for the hip-hop music videos of today. Not only are lyrics a way of being vulgar and inappropriate, the video's speak for themselves when it comes to hip-hop. The artists in the videos in expensive cars or nice houses and are often throwing money around the room. Sometimes in these videos there are fights and violent scences. There are even drug affiliations in the music videos shown on cable for all to see. Men are glorified with tons of half naked, if not fully naked, women surrounding them, waiting on them and usually all over them. These skewed views of the world give some viewers a sense of jealously, and in turn most people who watch those videos would strive to have that kind of life.
Women make up a large chunk in the hip-hop world but not in a positive way like the majority of men involved. To be fair there are a select group of women like Missy Elliot and Queen Latifah that have been in the industry without exploiting themselves to make their names. "Sharpley-Whiting argues that hip hop's commercial success is heavily dependent upon young black women. Her evidence includes hip hop's increasing interdependence on the sex industry."(Journal, 2008) A typical stereotype of women in the industry is "video girl", or a "video ho." They are often dancing provocatively and objectifying themselves in a way that only existed when women had no say. One could argue that today women have the choice to exploit themselves if they choose and that if they feel that it's okay then it's not a big issue. However, the women in these videos give men unrealistic ideas about treatment of women, dating and sex. The people they act out don't send realistic portrayals of the majority of women today. What is even worse than the girls in the videos actually working for the artists, are the actual groupies who sleep with the artists for what they think will build them connections in the industry. This is of coarse untrue because the groupies never get respect because they are degrading themselves. By utilizing their bodies they think they will get whatever they want, when really they never go anywhere. Groupies are the worst kind of women objectified in hip-hop because they are being used. It seems that women feel that they have to use their bodies to get ahead in the hip-hop world, when really it's the men in the first place who put these ideas into their heads.
Children are heavily influenced by the negative aspects associated with the hip-hop lifestyle. Young kids are easily affected and are easy targets of the industry because they will believe almost anything that is told to them. They are innocent and trusting and this is why it is easy to influence them into buying albums and thinking their favorite artists are heroes. An artists actions can have a heavy impact on teens, and things that an artists raps about, young children will agree and take it seriously because they have no perception of context. "Millions of children listen to these negative lyrics everyday, hoping they will be empowered by the words of artists whom they regard as role models." (Williams, 2006) Many rappers talk about coming from the streets and hustling drugs. Kids who live in poorer areas will feel like they can relate to their role model and turn to the artist's lyrics for support and start selling drugs. ".rappers are in effect telling our children that violence, broken English, fornication and drug use are okay" (Williams, 2006) Children will in turn start to become more violent because the people that they look up to are talking about beating people up and killing people. Young children that are still learning could aspire to a life of crimes and drugs in hopes of being like their rap idle they listen to and see in videos. Some might argue that it's a parents job to protect their children from the media, however, a parent can't monitor a child twenty four hours a day. Therefore a child will still be exposed to negative influences no matter how the parents raise them. A loss of youth and innocence is usually seen as a running theme with hip-hop and this is supported by all of these influences on children.
Violence is found in all aspects of music, television, art, etc. It's found all over the world, and it simply creates more violence. Violent lyrics, videos and connotations are found everywhere in the hip-hop music and lifestyle of today. Hip-hop and rap music give kids who don't fit in a place where they feel like they can belong. This is mostly due to the fact that gangs are often associated with hip-hop and rap music. Many rappers who came from "the streets" are the types of people who were or are involved in gangs. Different artists are from different gangs and they usually reference their gangs in their lyrics trying not to put it in obvious ways. Gangs are a way for kids to feel accepted into a group and lonely children will do almost anything to feel accepted by their peers. Since their idols are involved in gangs, young kids think that it's okay to join one because it will make them feel acknowledged. Two main gangs based out of Los Angeles, CA are the bloods and the crips; these two gangs have feuded since the seventies. Also rappers are often seen in entourages, which are groups of friends that they always have with them. They are always pictured with them. When people outside of the hip-hop culture of understanding see them they usually associate them with gangs.
This graph shows the sales trend of hip-hop records sold in a 15 year period. The graph has stayed mostly round the same numbers, showing that hip-hop is here to stay.
"Sex sells" is a saying that developed when the world became more open about sexuality. The same is true for hip-hop. Now hip-hop's sexually charged lyrics and visual "eye candy", as some might call it, is everywhere; with rappers like 50 cent and Lil' Wayne talking about "lollipop's" in their lyrics, referring to their penises. This type of vulgarity is found in the hip-hop music of today. The Ying-Yang Twins are another popular hip-hop group has an entire song dedicated to talking about sex and they're not the only ones. Most hip-hop artists have this in common, even Missy Elliot, a female rapper, talks about sex in some of her lyrics. It's everywhere in the hip-hop compositions of today.
Materialism is a major issue that has most recently taken over in the hip-hop industry. Greed has always existed in the lives of almost every American in general, however in rap it is taken to a whole different level. Rappers and artists of today wear expensive clothes, drive expensive cars, live in expensive houses and the biggest trend of all is to wear the most expensive jewelry. The jewelry has moved from simply gold to platinum and diamonds. The materialistic mind is what drives many aspiring artists to try and enter the hip-hop industry, everyone wants to emulate the big time hip-hop artists. However the greed can be too much. MC Hammer, a rapper in the early nineties went bankrupt because he bought too much too fast. Where are the family and life values? They seem to be covered up by all of the greed and materialistic qualities of a new hip-hop generation. "My friend showed me pictures of his kids/and all I could show him was pictures of my cribs."(Brodeur, 2008)
There has been research done that schools might actually start to integrate hip-hop music into college curriculums. Trying to use it as a learning tool and to help "relate to the students." Universities want to use it as a tool for many subjects, such as identity, culture of today, history, theory and practice. The main people behind it are trying to teach the "old" hip-hop, one without violence and negative associations of today. "Odom says it's time for students to realize some of the images they're being force-fed are not what hip-hop's originators intended" (Walker, 2006). The history that hip-hop has behind it is what makes hip-hop what it truly is, not a sex-driven over materialized music source that it has become today. However, this teaching tool seems impossible. Many people of today go into college knowing what they like and dislike. The things they have been exposed to at a younger age influence their thoughts and feelings. While trying to teach positive hip-hop is good, it's not going to be of very much interest to many students if they already come into the classes knowing that they like the harsh and explicit hip-hop music that they have grown accustomed to. Hip-hop has changed too much and become too negative to have anything positive associated with it.
As rap and hip-hop music seem to keep changing throughout time. One question is what is next? What is the next big thing to happen in hip-hop that starts a new trend or craze. Hip-hop seems to be an ever-evolving entity, never slowing down to see the change that it's missing out on my constantly reinventing itself. This is apparent with artist like Kanye West, who's albums have gone from more of a hip-hop vibe to a hip-hop mixed with other genres to create a super hip-hop sound. No one knows if hip-hop even has the potential to transform itself into something les violent and explicit and if it has the potential will it ever be able to happen now that it has gone so far into a negative objectifying downhill slope?
The once positively charged hip-hop has turned itself into an offensive type of music that has negative cultural effects on America. However today in a world where sex sells and shocking people is good entertainment, will hip-hop be able to rise back into the ranks of respectable music? A change is needed for the better, although it's hard to tell if change is possible with the way people have become accustomed to the negativity. "Hip Hop artists must ask themselves if the work they produce is what they want to be known for long after they have left this earth. Is this the "knowledge" they want to bequeath to our future generations?" (Stephen, 2007)
Work Cited
"Consumer Music Purchasing Trends GENRE: Rap/Hip-hop - Swivel." Tasty Data Goodies - Swivel. 30 Apr. 2009 <http://www.swivel.com/data_columns/show/3843778>.
