Unsafe Future 1
Running Head: UNSAFE FUTURE
Unsafe Future: Why Nuclear Energy Is Not the Answer
Nicole Denering
Northern Arizona University
An Unsafe Future: Why Nuclear Energy Is Not the Answer
What lies in the future is uncertain. Overpopulation, depletion of resources, pollution, and an energy crisis plague the citizens of Earth. Fossil fuels are non-renewable, the price of oil and utilities are skyrocketing, the economy is suffering, and carbon emissions are constantly being pumped into the air from coal plants. Many people are looking to nuclear power as the solution. However, this is not a viable alternative. Nuclear power is incredibly costly, highly dangerous, and is not sustainable. Past nuclear disasters have proven that radiation from nuclear plants adversely affects human health and the environment for current generations and those to come. Alternative methods of energy production should be invested in, such as wind, solar, and geothermal, rather than nuclear power plants, which are detrimental to the earth. Nuclear energy is not an effective alternative method of producing energy because of the dangers created, the problem of waste, and the fact that nuclear energy is not sustainable.
Nuclear power is harnessed from the natural element uranium. This element is mined from the ground, and through the process of fission, energy is produced: "At the power plant, the uranium oxide pellets are bombarded with neutrons, causing the uranium atoms to split and release both heat and neutrons. These neutrons collide with other uranium atoms and to release additional heat and neutrons in a chain reaction. This heat is used to generate steam, which is used by a turbine to generate electricity" (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2008). This electricity is then fed into the grid for electricity use across the nation. There are dangers associated with this process however: "The two splitting halved of a nucleus, physicists calculated, would fly apart with a total kinetic energy of nearly two hundred million electron volts" (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p. 211). This unimaginable power could be harnessed for something far more dangerous.
The threat of nuclear weapons is closely related to nuclear power. Uranium 235, which is split during the fission process, is the same element that is used in the production of atomic bombs. Once uranium has gone through fission to release power, the spent fuel becomes uranium 235 and plutonium. These waste products are then separated and concentrated into bomb-building materials. This means that the supplies to build an atomic bomb exist in every civilian nuclear power plant across the globe. For example, India produced atomic bombs from the "waste" product plutonium purchased from a nuclear reactor in Canada. All that is needed to build a legitimate atomic bomb is fifty pounds of highly enriched plutonium and uranium, which can be found at civilian nuclear plants. Not only can these elements be used for bombs, human health is an issue: "One of the most lethal poisons on the planet, a mere grain of plutonium-one thirty-thousandth of an ounce-will cause cancer if inhaled (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p. 228-229). Nuclear power plants produce deadly substances as waste just in order to supply people of the world with electricity.
According to the Environmental Protection Agency (2008), nuclear energy only accounts for 19% of the United States' electricity production. This is a small amount of energy that could easily be replaced by alternative, cleaner methods. The world is facing a climate crisis and nuclear power does not present a sustainable or reliable method of creating energy. A report by Greenpeace (2007) states as the impacts of climate change increase, the more risks are associated with nuclear power. Nuclear reactors use large quantities of water for cooling, and if droughts become more common, the plant would not be able to remain cool, creating a high safety hazard. Thus plants would be have to shut down and all the energy and materials put into creating the plant will have gone to waste.
The most pressing, and perhaps the most important issue regarding nuclear power, is the issue of waste. No one has figured out what to do with it. According to the EPA (2007), nuclear power plants must be completely shut down in order to remove the radioactive waste. Over 2,000 metric tons of waste are created every year in the United States alone. The radioactive waste is generally stored on site in steel-lined vaults at the nuclear power plant in which it was used. However, even though this waste is stored, it remains radioactive for thousands of years. How will future civilizations thousands of years in the future be prevented from encountering and not be harmed by this radioactive waste? Why should nuclear power plants even be allowed to be operate if there is no solution for the waste that is generated? Even trucks and containers that are used to transport the waste become contaminated with radioactive waste and cannot be used by humans ever again. The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission is still in the process of:
developing the technical basis to ensure the continued safe performance of long-term dry storage systems for spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste under extended service conditions (20 to 100 years) and the structural integrity of spent fuel transport casks during severe accidents. Research programs are developing tools for assessing the performance of decommissioning and waste management options. This research examines the potential mechanisms that could cause environmental movement of residual radioactivity remaining after license termination and provides computational methods to estimate the effects of such movement on the public. (U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission 2007)
The U.S. NRC is in the process of figuring out what to do with waste that has already been created. In what other situation would it be okay to create something with no idea of how to dispose of the resulting product and how it will affect the safety of the world? This situation with the U.S. NRC represents sheer irresponsibility and selfishness. People need energy; therefore the government will go to any means necessary to meet those needs, no matter the consequences for the future. Capital gains seem to take precedence over civil duty. Nuclear power is not an alternative energy source that should be used because of the fact that there is no solution for waste.
There are many proposed methods for dealing with radioactive waste, and none of them offer a sustainable solution. According to Cousteau and Schiefelbein (2007), radioactive waste has been dumped in mountain caverns where leaks were discovered years later. The nuclear waste had seeped into the ground water systems surrounding the caves. In Ireland, radioactive waste was dumped directly into the sea. Today three metric tons of uranium are still allowed to be dumped into the sea annually, making the Irish Sea the most radioactive sea on Earth. The Soviet Union injected three billion curies of radioactive waste into the ground near three major rivers, which will eventually reach the sea. France reprocesses the spent fuel and mixes it with glass, in hopes of finding a site someday, somewhere. It has even been proposed that radioactive waste be shot into space. (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p. 236-238). Nuclear power plants create danger just by producing waste, which is highly unstable and not easily stored. The problem is that the technology does not even exist yet. There is no solution to this waste problem, and there seems to be no solution in sight.
There is also the issue of what to do with the power plant after it has reached its mandatory retirement age of only 30 years. One possibility is entombment- encasing the reactor in reinforced concrete. However, how can it be guaranteed that this concrete will last forever? Another proposed solution is safe storage, the hiring of guards for 100 years to keep people away from the power plants. Companies particularly prefer this method because they only have to worry about the plant for that amount of time, and when the time comes for demolition of the plant, the company will be long gone, leaving it up to the taxpayers to pay the bill. Shippingport, a nuclear reactor built in 1954, was dismantled in 1980 and transported 8,100 miles to be stored in a trench near the Columbia River. Here it will remain radioactive for thousands of years. Even all of one hundred trucks, tools, and clothing used to transport the reactor had to be specially disposed of at the site (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p.234-235). This is an enormous amount of energy wasted in order to dismantle one power plant that only operated for thirty years. This process of dismantling a plant is not efficient and is extremely expensive.
Though uranium may yield a high amount of energy, the cost is astronomical. The fission of uranium may produce one million times more energy than coal or oil per pound, but the cost of building a nuclear power plant strong enough to withstand accidents and constant radiation is more than four times what it costs to build a coal plant. The United States provides nuclear power plant companies with subsidies, to build and operate the plants. Increasing electricity rates for Americans by almost 50 percent has paid for these subsidies. The price of nuclear power is not only incredibly high; the money often goes to waste. In Germany, a nuclear plant that cost 232 million deutsche marks ($154 million) to construct, was demolished at a cost of 289 million deutsche marks ($192 million) after only eighteen days of operation (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p.232). The cost of nuclear energy is not only extremely high; it is not sustainable. How long can the government afford to pay subsidies and provide power for millions of people?
Despite all of this, many people still argue for the use of nuclear power. According to the Nuclear Energy Institute, an advocate of nuclear power, the conversion of uranium to nuclear energy is a cleaner method than using coal, oil, or natural gas to create power. Some argue that nuclear power is a cleaner method of producing energy: "Just one ton of plutonium.packs the energy of one million tons of petroleum" (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p. 231). Therefore, using nuclear power as a main source of energy would prevent a tremendous amount of fossil fuels from being wasted. Nuclear power plants do not burn anything, as the process of fission just requires the bombardment of particles, therefore no carbon dioxide or controlled pollutants are emitted into the atmosphere (Nuclear Energy Institute, 2009). Figure 1. shows that nuclear power seems to be much less detrimental to the environment and in fact prevents pollutants from being emitted into the atmosphere.
Figure 1. Nuclear Energy Institute (2007).
Many people make the argument that nuclear power is clean and good for the environment because the plants do not emit carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, or nitrogen oxides. However, according to the Environmental Protection Agency (2007), "fossil fuel emissions are associated with the uranium mining and uranium enrichment process as well as the transport of the uranium fuel to the nuclear plant. Uranium is a nonrenewable resource that cannot be replenished on a human time scale." The construction and deconstruction processes produce great amounts of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide and great amounts of radioactive waste that adversely affect the environment. Nuclear power plants create danger just by producing waste, which is highly unstable and not easily stored. Hundreds of trucks are used to transport materials to the plant in order to build it and even more trucks are used to haul away nuclear waste as with the Shippingport plant that was transported over 8,000 miles to be stored in the ground forever (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p. 234). It is false to say that nuclear power plants do not cause any pollution because the construction and deconstruction produce much carbon dioxide pollution that is emitted into the atmosphere.
Not only do nuclear power plants create pollution, reactor meltdowns are a threat as well. However, many proponents support the results of the accident at Three Mile Island. An equipment failure at the Three Mile Island plant in New York in 1979 resulted in a nuclear meltdown (Nuclear Energy Institute, 2007). Workers were unable to understand the problem and could not prevent the accident, which resulted in a reactor meltdown. However, the plant's safety systems supposedly worked effectively. According to the Nuclear Energy Institute (2009), the meltdown did not create health problems, cause any deaths, or threaten public safety. Dozens of studies were conducted and no health problems were linked to the accident at Three Mile Island. This accident is one of only two major meltdowns in history, and did not harm the public as the proper safety precautions were utilized. Three Mile Island has become an example for other nuclear plants, and since 1980, plants have been operating at much higher levels of safety. If a major meltdown is not harmful to the public, then this shows that nuclear power is not a threat to humanity. However, the disaster at Chernobyl less than ten years later proved this claim false.
On April 26, 1986, a nuclear meltdown occurred at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine. The accident resulted in a 10-day long release of radioactive material in the form of gases and aerosols. It is estimated that over 100 million curies of noble gases and other radioactive wastes were released into the environment. Nearly 250 deaths have been directly caused by radiation exposure from the Chernobyl accident and many birth defects have resulted due to water and air contamination near the plant. Radioactive clouds reached all the way to the United Kingdom by May 2 and then dispersed over the Atlantic Ocean. Radioactive trails were also produced on the ground near the power plant (Ginzburg & Reis, 1991, p. 32-33). Generations to come must deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster.
Nuclear power advocates claim that this method of energy production is an effective and safe and will be useful in the years to come. America's energy crisis can be alleviated by the use of nuclear power and is widely recognized for not emitting harmful pollutants into the air. However, if the billions of dollars spent on nuclear power were spent on truly "clean" energy sources such as wind or solar, perhaps the threat of terrorism and global disaster would not be so real. Nuclear power is not clean energy. If the people of the world have spent so much time and money on something that is not sustainable and its extremely expensive, why have cheaper, alternative fuels not been invested in? These methods do not carry with them a threat of global disaster and have no waste disposal problem. In order to meet the energy needs of the people of the world, sustainability needs to be recognized. Creating short-term solutions for long-term problems is not going to solve the climate crisis. A shift needs to be made. Corporate interests cannot come before practicality and sustainability. Jacques Cousteau said: "The future is now and the problem is ours" (Cousteau & Schiefelbein, 2007, p.251). It is up to people today to decide the future of generations to come.
