Kerstin Cantwell Cantwell 1
1 May 2009
Extended Argument Essay
Don't Worry, Be Happy
Happiness is not something that people can just adapt to. To be happy is a feeling that one creates by either doing certain actions or by having empowering visions of themselves succeeding. The feeling of being happy can be influenced by many things in a person's environment, such as a person's job, the relationships they have with others, and even exercising. Research is continuously being done over the topic of how being happy is crucial to living a healthy mental and physical lifestyle. I personally believe this statement is true. I am an average college student, who grew up in the suburbs of Phoenix, Arizona, who considers herself a happy individual. I am a part of a loving family and have wonderful friends, and am someone who just lives every day like it is her last. Going off the two major opinions of professional psychologists and doctors, reflecting off of my positive vibe on all aspects of my life means I live a happy life. Coming to this conclusion is proven by the fact that I hardly ever get sick. Proven from psychological and medical observations, living a healthy life, whether in a mental and/or physical state, is important to a person's life.
There are so many different impacts on how to be fully happy in your own skin. Happiness is significant to one's health simply by just being surrounded by other positive people, being active or doing something productive, something worthwhile, or simply anything that creates happy feelings. The Dictionary.com's version of happiness is defined as "good fortune; pleasure; contentment; joy" (1). According to psychologist, Sonja Lyubomirsky, during a
Cantwell 2
"20/20" interview over the subject of being happy, divides her theory into three slices of pie. "Fifty percent of the pie comes from a genetic background, ten percent is life circumstances (finances, where you live, how you look), while the remaining forty percent comes from what we do and how we think." All three factors of the pie are all involved with the reason and definition of happiness. The psychology definition is "the scientific study of behavior and mental processes" (Myers 5). Psychology is a broad subject that many people continue to learn and study in. Many people do not see the relevance and relationship between the mind, body, and the feeling of happiness, but research proves those individuals wrong.
Within most psychology textbooks and novels the theory of how happiness is aroused is becoming more of a studied research. Psychologists have been realizing how optimism can accurately affect the well-being of people. Novelist, David G. Myers, claims in his book Exploring Psychology, "People who are happy perceive the world as safer, make decisions more easily, are more cooperative, and live healthier and more energized and satisfied lives" (388-389). Being proved through science of the mind and of the body, happiness is the exclusive result of how being a happy person compares to unhappy and distressed human beings. To be happy seems to be a very simple way to live. In David G. Myers book, chapter 12 examples a graph of pessimistic, neutral, and optimistic people compared on the percentage of people developing coronary heart disease, resulting with optimists in last place (401). Stating this shows how having anger on yourself creates many negative reactions to the mind and to the body.
Anger is the simplest way to express how a person feelings negatively. Anger appears in everyone's life, no matter how joyful or satisfied with life one may be. Sue Meyers wrote an
Cantwell 3
article for the University of Minnesota on the relation between anger and health. She notifies her readers how women seem to act more violently and express more negative emotions than men. A study she had done in Michigan resulted information that "Women who suppressed their anger in confrontations with their spouses had twice the mortality risk as other women, even considering negative life-style factors (smoking, high blood pressure). In couples where both suppressed anger, mortality rates went up among women, but not men. Only when men had high blood pressure and suppressed anger did their rate of dying increase." (2). The anger from one person can turn into fatal responses including sickness.
The intertwined relationship with the psychological studies done and on the mental health of a person revolves a lot around sickness' and diseases. Sickness', as simple as even just catching a cold or to even greatening your chance of getting coronary heart disease can be prevented from having a positive outlook. Just as myself, being optimistic on life and having an appreciation for the life you have been given and live, people such as myself hardly receive colds or the flu. A study was done to prove this fact by a university college professor named Sheldon Cohen, which result the three emotions; optimism, extraversion, and feelings of purpose in life and self-esteem were the causes of unlikeliest of getting sick (Nauret 2). As far as heart attacks go, psychologists have developed the reasoning of such probability to the type of personalities. In his book, David G. Myers, defines the two type of personalities to be different by, Type A to be competitive, easily angered, impatient, verbally aggressive people and Type B is be the more easy-going of the two (400). In a nine year period, a study done by two psychologists, Meyer Friedman and Ray Rosenman, concluded that out of 257 men participates; sixty-nine percent of them were Type A in the group who had suffered from heart attacks. This proves that those of
Cantwell 4
that sixty-nine percent had negative emotions which resulted into stress, which happens to be major causes for heart attacks. Another study done by researchers at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston resulted that women in the study that showed excessive amounts of depression were two and a half times at risk for arteriosclerosis and heart disease (About.com 3). Although these two sicknesses are temporary to some extents, they are both just little factors to how happiness effectively helps with a person's health.
Another health observation that is questioned when discussing about happiness is, what about endorphins? Chemically enhanced endorphins are created more negative minded people who have usually lived through a traumatic experience and use the medicine to reduce sensation of pain and affect emotions (Dictionary.com 2). Reasons for such a drug is to help improve the thoughts and feelings a person might feel. In an article on the internet over Web MD.com, a website that describes and defines medical terms and issues, expresses that even though you are able to take endorphins and such drugs, your own mind is a "natural painkiller" (2). The article on the webpage talks about the comparison of study research is related to negative and positive thoughts. The author states, "if your attitude and expectations are more positive, your brain is likely to produce sufficient amounts of the substances that will boost your body's healing power" (Web MD.com 3). Ones physical health impacts the substances that lead to mental health. Another part of a medical theory that with all of these positive thoughts within an environment, exercise is also a part f the physical health.
Exercising seems much like a chore to an individual, unless it is a routine process. To stay in shape creates a better physical well-being, while unknowingly creates happiness. Within
Cantwell 5
the book, Pursuit of Happiness, a part of the Avon series that was also written by David G. Myers, David expresses a plain diagraph describing what ten main actions can help create happiness within a person. Number five titled, "Join the "movement" movement" states, "An avalanche of research reveals that aerobic exercise not only promotes health and energy, it also is an antidote for mild depression and anxiety" (352). On the opposite side of exercising is having an appropriate sleeping habit. Number six of the ten suggestions of How to Be Happier describes how when people do not get enough rest it results in fatigue, inactive alertness, and upset mood swings (Myer 353). Another opinion of exercising is from Scott Sanchez, who wrote an article on natural endorphins and exercising, says "One major factor, in all studies concerning mankind, disease, cures, and wellness, exercise is the key to a better quality of life." (4). To be happy comes from a physical contribution of the health process as exampled in the two situations above. While some believe it is all about a psychologists and doctors' opinion, some theorist, such as Abraham Maslow, are convinced it is all in your outlook at life.
Abraham Maslow is famous for his theory on the Hierarchy of Needs. The development of this chart expresses the five steps of complete happiness of an individual. It is a pyramid that examples from highest to lowest the importance of life to specific people. Noticing the top of the pyramid is the number one factor that can be affected or altered by happiness.
Cantwell 6
For someone to be completely satisfied with life, according to Maslow, self-actualization is ones way of perceiving their own lives and their process of fulfilling their own potential. This is considered to be a humanistic perspective which is involved with the "healthy" strive for self-determination and self-realization (Myers 432). The inspiration inside an individual mixed with passion creates the best out of their life is what gives a person drive to be successful in their future.
To have a positive outlook on life and to fulfill ones passions is a big part of accessing oneself to the future we would like to behold. By setting goals for oneself perfectly examples how we, as people, create our happiness. Going after your dreams and choosing the occupation you have always wanted gives you motivation to chase and achieve that particular goal. According to Daniel Gilbert, the novelist of Stumbling on Happiness, says in one of the chapters, "We assume that what we feel as we imagine the future is what we'll feel when we get there, but in fact, what we feel as we imagine the future is often a response to what's happening in the present. The time-share arrangement between perception and imagination is one of the causes of presentism [.]" (139). Gilbert tries to state how happiness all around is a connection to your
Cantwell 7
past, present, and future. He believes we dream what we want because of situations we are involved in right now. Carolyn Johnson, the identical twin observed and mentioned earlier was quoted, "I'm very optimistic. I have goals. I know what I want to do. I know where I want to be by next summer." While, Kat, talks about her financial situation working as a hair stylist, "I don't feel like I'm progressing as much as I want to in my job. A lot of times it just feels like it weigh on me too much." This perspective is kind of thought as a cause and effect relationship, much like the relation to health and happiness.
The subject of relation and genetics has a major impact on the results of someone's happiness. During her interview, Lyubomirsky talked about the pie and how genetics is the main portion of personality while, on the other hand, differences in a twin study she exampled showed otherwise. The study she did of Carolyn Johnson and Kat Johnson are identical twins that live two different lives. Carolyn rated an above average score on her happiness evaluation, while Kat scored "boarder-line miserable." Judging the lives they live based off of marriages, children, business relations, and their financial situations. Such a situation proves how the twins who have exact genes can be on completely different levels of happiness by their outlook on their lives and where they see their lives progressing. Stating this, the idea of self-actualization is obviously an important part of having a successful and uplifting life.
Coming from an average life, psychologists and doctors would imagine I would have an average happiness level, but this is wrong. I am almost completely satisfied with my life and the decisions I make. Living with no regrets, ambitions, and desires creates my happiness. The studies and researches that were done by psychology and medical scholars give facts of how
Cantwell 8
happiness comes from physical and mental health lifestyle. These outcomes prove the real phenomenon of, feeling great and looking great. The two topics that combined within each other have shown and influenced others on ways to be happier in life and with them. Coming from the wise words from Bob Marley, now you have the true, in depth consensus of "Don't worry, be happy."
Kerstin Cantwell Cantwell 9
1 May 2009
English 105
Work Cited
Gilbert, Daniel. Stumbling on Happiness. New York: A division of Random House, Inc., 2005.
"Happiness Lowers Risk for Stroke." About.com. 5 Dec. 2005. 25 Apr. 2009 <http://seniorhealth.about.com/od/stroke/a/anger_stroke.htm>.
Lyubomirsky, Sonja. "The How of Happiness." Interview. 20/20. ABC. Los Angeles, California. 18 Jan. 2009.
Meyers, Sue. "Anger and Health." University of Michigan Extension. 2009. 30 Apr. 2009 <http://www.extension.umn.edu/distribution/familydevelopment/components/7269ai.html>.
Myers, David G. Exploring Psychology. 7th ed. Holland: Worth, 2008.
Myers, David G. Exploring Psychology. 6th ed. Holland: Worth, 1997.
Myers, David G. The Pursuit Of Happiness. New York: Harper Paperbacks, 1993.
Nauret, Rick. "Happiness Enhances Health." Psych Central (2006): 1-3.
Sanchez, S. "Examining the Natural High of Endorphins." Health News. 11 Nov. 2007. 24 Apr. 2009 <http://www.healthnews.com/health-beauty/examining-natural-high-endorphins-73.html>.
Cantwell 10
Wilbert, Caroline. "Happiness and Endorphins." Happiness, Satisfaction Boosts Health. 28 Aug. 2008. 24 Apr. 2009 <http://www.webmd.com/balance/news/20080829/happiness-satisfaction-boosts-health>.
