Writing to Analyze
Pharmacological Inebriation, an American Past Time
Jason R. Vignochi
March 8, 2009
Eng. 105
The process of focusing may have been the most difficult part of writing this paper. It was very difficult to keep this paper from becoming an argumentative one, and I am not quite even sure I was able to effectively achieve this standard. I had to modify what I wanted to write about from just children to adults as well so I would have less passion involved and more analysis. I think the entire topic is quite important so I can not exactly discern what is most or least important, however if you read effectively, it's apparent as to what I spent the most time on, and by that standard, it would be the children as most important and adults as least. To be honest, this was probably the most effective paper in teaching me how to write. I was, to say the least, intimidated by writing five passionless pages but I noticed that if I actually split my paper up into specific subtopics and wrote perhaps a page and a half or two on each I could effective make the paper work and have enough information in there to consider it complete.
Pharmacological Inebriation, an American Past Time
Little Johnny is 8 years old. His mother works for a high-end advertising agency and spends much of her week at the office lining out the next trend for young Americans to fall prey to. His father, works for a multi-million dollar corporation and is frequently off in other countries at business meetings with men in three-piece suits and Versace glasses. Being that Johnny's family is often spread apart they have hired a nanny, Marisa, to foster what they perceive to be the necessary attention an eight year old requires. They have a very good annual income and provide little Johnny with everything he could want besides the attention of his very dear parents. Soon, our Johnny becomes quite irritable at school and his grades begin to drop. He begins to act out in the classroom, and has even been known to call Marisa a bitch. His parents decide to take Johnny to a psychiatrist. After a few very expensive sessions she diagnoses Johnny with attention-deficit/hyperactive disorder and prescribes him the psychostimulant Ritalin. After a few doses of the drug Johnny becomes complacent and easily manageable (much to Marisa's pleasure) and there seems to be a satisfactory rise in his grades. Both his parents and teachers are satisfied with the results and think nothing more of it.
This anecdote, while of this author's invention, is becoming more and more commonplace in American culture. With inflation at the highest since the Great Depression and uncanny costs of living, the ability for parents to be at home with their children is becoming more and more difficult. A dual income is nearly essential to maintain a suitable standard of living and as such, children in present times are experiencing less and less attention and love from their progenitors. It may be able to be inferred that this issue, in addition to the American addiction to commercialism, has resulted in a noticeable increase in behavioral problems in children and essentially has resulted in a significant rise in diagnoses of psychological ailments, not only in young children but also in adults who possess symptoms of many commonplace psychological 'dysfunctions'. Because of such, the amount of psychosocial medications has gone staggeringly upward. The pharmaceutical business has now become a multi-billion dollar endeavor with some of its top ranked partitions making near four hundred billion in revenue annually in 2008 (www.money.cnn.com). How exactly are children and adults affected by such circumstances and what could the side effects of such a staggering increase in anti-psychotic drugs do to the minds of those who take them?
Depression is one of the most common diagnosed ailments in the adult world. In 2003 more than 19 million Americans, nearly 9.5% of the entire population exhibited symptoms of depression (www.muhlenberg.edu). It seems that no longer is there a common trend and pride in the element of hard work and earning a living for one's family and/or oneself, but there is instead the never-ceasing pressure of being successful in every aspect of living and the epitome of perfection in the eyes of social peers. This is not to say that people do not respect hard work anymore, only that such ideals held is superfluous and not always meeting such standards can be looked down upon. With such conceived pressures and socially decreed necessity of success, there is no wonder of the now common diagnosis of depression and as such, no wonder in the advent of drugs to combat the heavy effects of such an ailment.
According to the non-profit health organization www.helpguide.org, most antidepressant drugs function in the same way: by raising serotonin levels in the brain. However, there is no direct correlation between low serotonin levels and depression itself. When compared to taking an aspirin to combat a headache it makes very clear sense. Aspirin is used to end a headache but that does not mean that the headache stemmed from low aspirin levels in the body; serotonin levels may be low, but this does not necessarily declare it as the cause of depression. In addition to this fact, there is no clear declaration of depression being effectively quelled with antidepressant drugs. Www.helpguide.org also states that studies have shown quite the reverse of this, finding that less than 50% of antidepressant drugs have any long lasting effects. (www.helpguide.org)
Keeping this in mind, there is also the element of the side effects involved from taking these sorts of drugs. According to the same site, many people experience decreased sexual function (something known to be a cause of some forms of depression in the first place), in addition to a myriad of other effects such as nausea, insomnia, weight gain/loss, tremors, anxiety, and dry mouth. Most prevalent of all side effects from antidepressant medicines is actually from ending of the use of the drug. There can be very severe withdrawal symptoms from quitting antidepressant medication, many of which can be worse than the actual depression itself creating a vicious circle. (www.helpguide.org) While being commonly prescribed to people exhibiting symptoms of depression, it has not been commonly identified the addictive nature of these drugs as well as the idea that many of the symptoms of depression can be effectively eliminated with therapy and good old fashion healthy exercise.
With the diagnoses and medication trend of psychiatric dysfunction in the adult world there has been a definitive assimilation into the youth of America as well. According to Monitor on Psychology, from 1993 to 2002 there was a five-fold increase in the use of anti-psychotic drugs in children (Meyers 24). While the frequency of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder is in dispute, the variance is still staggering, ranging from one percent to twenty percent among school children and that 95% of those children were medicated with stimulant psychopharmacologic drugs (Barbaresi et. Al. 217). A statistic that states that possibly one in five children is evidence enough that there needs to be deliberate and specific research on the subject. Without such research, there could be very possible ramifications on developing minds, especially when not fully taking into effect that many children are acting as what they really are: children.
There are very real and documented side effects of stimulant drugs, especially in children. Many long term effects have yet to be fully determined, although there is, as of yet, no proof that stimulant drugs provide any lasting effects, however some of the effects of these drugs are questionable enough to warrant caution when divvying them out as carelessly as they seem to be. The aforementioned percentages alone suggest that there is less care in prescribing these drugs, especially when those who take them have been known to exacerbate symptoms of hostility, aggression, anxiety, depression, and paranoia as well as personality changes such as a withdrawn nature, increased listlessness, rigidness, while exhibiting less spontaneity and talkativeness, in addition to obsessive-compulsive symptoms (www.helpguide.org). With these types of side effects being noted, these are still the kind of drugs being offered to children simply because they are exhibiting behavioral problems such as a short attention span and disinterest in school work.
The difficulty of comprehending such actions on young minds is astounding. With these prescriptions becoming more and more commonplace across the nation, parents are no longer seeing children as children, but instead as irresponsible, inattentive, and disobedient and eventually as mentally dysfunctional. It looks as if the possession of ADD, or some derivative thereof, is nearly a trend and it seems the likelihood of opening the medicine cabinet in an American home without seeing some sort of behavioral reparation medication is becoming extinct. There seems to be less and less notice of children exploring the nature of social interaction and interpersonal relationships with their parents and siblings, and more and more forgetting of the boredom many children have concerning school. They are now exhibiting social and psychological dysfunction with an immediate need to be medicated in order to prevent any outburst or deviation from the acceptable social paradigm. The capability of parents and teachers to understand that children are just living and exploring behavior and interaction is tentative at best, and it has become clear that instead of taking the time to understand this, drugs are prescribed instead.
There can be little doubt the increase of pharmaceutical resolutions for what used to be considered normal behavioral patterns. With the ease of being able to hand out a few pills rather than deal with the root of a problem, this trend has become more and more commonplace. Children are inevitably becoming robots under the influence of psychostimulant drugs and there may in fact be real dangers over continued use of these substances, be it stunting personalities or even biological defects. Children often learn by example and many parents are developing these young minds under the pretense that taking prescribed medicines can and will solve many of their problems. Good parenting and personal responsibility can forego most of the problems pharmaceuticals are being used for, at least in terms of psychological disorders. With the advent of the dual income and the necessity of having both parents work, it has become more difficult for parents to spend time with their children, but if parents somehow made time, many of the behavior issues in children could be solved. In addition, the common trend of adults utilizing pills because of the pressures in the adult world has been proven to be overcome by common relaxation practices and healthy, regular exercise. This trend of dosing oneself, or someone else, has become so commonplace that most people hardly even notice it happening. Hopefully in the future this trend may take a sidestep to healthy interpersonal interactions and definitive, positive reactions to situational circumstance such as a bad day at work or throwing one's crayon box out the window rather than an ample dose of a doctor's candy.
