Sikorski 1
Aaron Sikorski
Kacie Bagean
Extended Argument
4/27/09
Marijuana: The New Prohibition
American's War on drugs has failed to stop the use of marijuana and is directly funding violent criminals, when simultaneously wasting billions of dollars on enforcement. In recent years, there has been a movement to legalize the use of marijuana. This movement is not a group of stoned out hippies that just want to be free to smoke all day, instead some of the smartest people in an American are supporting decriminalization or legalization of marijuana. Milton Friedman, George A. Akerlof, and Vernon L. Smith are three noble prize winning economist, along with 530 other distinguished economists, are trying to get a discussion about marijuana to congress floor. Revenue from taxation of marijuana sales would range from $2. 4 billion per year if marijuana were taxed like ordinary consumer goods to $6. 2 billion if it were taxed like alcohol or tobacco. "We believe such a debate will favor a regime in which marijuana is legal but taxed and regulated like other goods."( Jeffrey A. Miron) by making the sale of marijuana a legal business, it directly removes money from dangerous criminals like the Mexican drug Cartels. Two thirds of the total income for the Mexican Cartels comes from the trafficking of marijuana. This allows the Cartels to afford guns the automatic rifles, purchased in the United States and smuggled back over. If marijuana were legal, the Cartels would become bankrupt and crumble, exactly like the Mafia in the 1920s whose main business was sale of alcohol.
The War on Drugs has failed "Marijuana appears to be readily available to almost all 12th graders; in 2005 86% reported that they think it would be 'very easy' or 'fairly easy' for them to get it -- almost twice the number who reported ever having used it (45%). (National Institute on Drug Abuse) . The FBI lists the statics of all drug crime reports, and 47. 4 percent of the 1,841,182 total arrests for drug abuse violations were for marijuana possession. This means that harder drugs, like meth, cocaine and heroin that lead to violent crimes and serious harm to the user only make up 53% of the arrest combined. This implies that the police are barely arresting people who use dangerous drugs. So why even have a War on Drugs if it is an utter failure.
Marijuana must be dangerous, and harmful to the citizens of the United Sates otherwise it would have never been made illegal. The answer is good old fashion racism. In Texas, a senator said on the floor of the Senate "All Mexicans are crazy, and this stuff [marijuana] is what makes them crazy." In the early 1900's there was an influx of Mexican immigrants in to the United States, they brought with them their culture and customs. This included the use of "loco weed" or marijuana. Marijuana was not called marijuana until it was associated with Mexican, before that it was cannabis. Cannabis was a widely farmed plant, it main use is in rope making. During World War 1, the US government planted thousands of acres of cannabis to supply the army with rope that was needed for the war effort.
Mexicans were hated in the southern states, because they would work for a lower wage. This led too many white farmers without a job and angry. To lead these angry, racist white farmers, was a man called Harry J. Anslinger. Harry Anslinger a man who said "The primary reason to outlaw marijuana is its effect on the degenerate races.", and "Reefer makes darkies think they're as good as white men." In 1930, Anslinger was appointed to the newly created Federal Bureau of Narcotics "FBN" of a subcommittee of the Treasury Department, promoted was its first Commissioner. The head a man who job was to understand how to make tax revenue off the sale of alcohol and other narcotics. This man must have had some education in free market trading or economics, nope he did not even graduate high school. After high school, he worked on a railroad Company. This overly qualified man recognized the Bureau of Narcotics as an amazing career opportunity. This new government agency was well funded and had a broad definition of what its use was. Anslinger was able to define both the problem and the solution. He immediately realized that opiates and cocaine the hard drugs that cause true harm, would not be enough to help build his agency. Therefore, he latched on to marijuana and started to work on making it illegal at the federal level. Just so, he would have job security, and ample funding.
Anslinger was supported by his good friend William Randolf Hearst, owner one of the largest chains of newspapers in the US. Hearst had his own reasons to help. He also hated Mexicans, because had lost 800,000 acres of timberland to Pancho Villa. He had invested heavily in the timber industry that supplied his paper mills. To protect his investments he did not want to see the development of hemp or "cannabis" paper. Cannabis paper is less harmful to the environment and the hemp fields can produce more paper per acre then timber. An added bonus was that telling lies about Mexicans and the devil marijuana weed causing violence, sold newspapers, making him even richer. Here is an excerpt from one of Hearst newspapers.
"Was it marijuana, the new Mexican drug that nerved the murderous arm of Clara Phillips when she hammered out her victim's life in Los Angeles?... THREE-FOURTHS OF THE CRIMES of violence in this country today are committed by DOPE SLAVES"
