Flanagan 1
Michael Flanagan
English 105
April 25, 2009
Professor Beagen
Youth and Television
Television has often been seen as a bad influence to children this is due to the fact many people believe that television is responsible for so many problems in today's youth. While some researchers show aggression can be linked to children through television. It is not fair to make a generalization about television that it is all bad. For this reason people think all types of television are bad and that no could benefit from it. In most cases people who are already very aggressive will watch violent television programs and become even more violent. Also it needs to be known that the people who act on violent impulses they see from the media make up a very small percent of the general population. Television has several uses to children; it can be education and help them understand current events.
Education channels help youth learn and grow mentally. The discovery channel for kids shows children how certain mechanism work in nature. Other shows like blue clues teach very young children how to count or tie their shoes. It's these kind of things that are often ignored and are what typical cause other parents to think that their children are not watching. Television does have negative affects but it is up to parent to decide what their children watch. Also television is an eye to other worlds around. Children should read books and do arts but watching movies or shows can open their minds to another culture. Like most things, television can be good but only in moderation. Too much television is often causes youth to be lazy or unimaginative.
Televised sports can great. There sport shows can cause interest in children to play those sports. Some children here find their role models which can be or bad depending who there are. Televised sport can also generate supports or fans. These fans usually comfort in each other presents which allows children to use and understand their social skills. Television news always keeps people up to date on current events. Sometimes the news can be too complex or biased for children to understand but those that do watch have at least an understanding of what's going on and can ask questions.
Some families spent time together watching shows the whole family can enjoy. The networks ABC and sometimes NBC have shows that families can watch together. Also television can show and teach music and art to children. This area can sometimes be questionable since a lot of contemporary music today does not always align with peoples traditional morals. Television also lets children see ideas or people that they would not normally see in their own environment. An example is "young girls who go up in a male dominated family can turn on the television and see women as world leaders". This example is not just limited to gender but all minority groups. Children can see the people who they want to be or understand whom they want to become.
Since the media has a vast array of ideas and shows, children today can gain more experience in growing up and learning about new things in society. Television also helps children learn more visually. This allows teachers to use more visuals and help children learn the subjects being taught to them.
While television is sometimes blames for disrupting traditions and morals. There is a variety of things behind it an example is "television today wants to society to think that gay marriage is perfectly normal" this was said by a man who grew up in what he calls a traditionally moral home. Television can open people's minds and show them new beliefs or morals. It allows people to accept others and be tolerant of other people's views. Children who do grow up in home with conservative morals can watch television and see that people who are gay or straight are the same. Television has always created progression in the right for people.
Finally Television can be both bad and good not just one. Parents should be responsible for the children watch. It's up to parents and children to act on the positive attributes of television and to understand the bad ones. If children understand why some things are bad on television and told how to avoid them, then they can watch knowing the negative consequence behind those actions. It can show children wide realms of culture, science, and arts from the comfort of their own homes
