Hypnosis in Medicine 8
RUNNING HEAD: HYPNOSIS IN MEDICINE
Hypnosis in Medicine
Matthew Aaron Tresnak
Northern Arizona University
Hypnosis in Medicine
With its roots within psychology, hypnosis has been on the edge of the medical world since the mid eighteen hundreds. Since then, it has gained a stigma among the public as a mystical practice similar to magic: More parlor trick than science. Live and on television, demonstrations of hypnosis are shown with entertainment in mind. This image of hypnosis is the only one the public is presented with on a common basis. The legitimacy of hypnosis is even debated within its original field by research and clinical psychologists. However, hypnosis has begun to cast off some of the aforementioned stigma. Case studies have shown that the use of hypnosis has positive affects for patients as an alternative to anesthesia. These findings, along with others, have brought hypnosis and the power of suggestion back into consideration by the medical field.
The history of hypnosis is one of bad timing. According to a TIME magazine article from 1953, hypnosis first gained recognition from the medical field as a painkiller in the 1800's, until ether anesthesia was discovered around 1850. Many years later, hypnosis gained notice from the medical field because of a man named Jean-Martin Charot, who showed the use of hypnosis was an effective treatment for hysteria (Roth, 1996). The ideas of the famous psychologist, Sigmund Freud, squashed this second rise in interest. The article focuses on what was then the newest ascension of hypnosis in 1953, the creation of a textbook by eleven MDs. Since then, hypnosis has been benefited by the gold standard of clinical research. With the application of the scientific method to every aspect of medicine, it was only a matter of time until hypnosis was tested by those same standards. Entire journals are now dedicated to research dealing singularly with hypnosis and its various uses. The American Board of Hypnotherapy (http://www.abh-abnlp.com/), the National Guild of Hypnotists (http://www.ngh.net/), and the International Medical and Dental Hypnotherapy Association (http://www.imdha.com/) are a few of the multiple organizations focused on the common practices and standards of hypnosis use in the medical field.
Part of the cause of the public view on hypnosis is lack of information. Many wonder how hypnosis works and fits into clinical practice. Hypnosis revolves around the power of suggestion. That is, sub-consciously receiving suggestive comments in a trance state that will bring a desired response while in a conscious state. These suggestions can be very powerful and effective. From helping people with addictions like smoking or relieving major phobias, hypnosis has been in use by psychologists as treatment in our modern times. But can hypnosis aid in treatment for more invasive medical practices like surgery? According to Shelley Askay and her peers, it can. Askay and her fellow professors from the University of Washington Medical School conducted a study of the effectiveness of hypnosis as a pain reliever for severe burn wounds. A burn wound can be the most painful wound one can experience. Many victims continue to have pain after being administered strong medications focused on pain relief alone. Anesthesia based procedures are successful in blocking the pain, but come with multiple side effects like sedation and constipation (Askay et al, 2007). Because of this "catch-22," medical practitioners have begun to look at alternative practices for the relief of pain. Askay tested the effect of hypnosis as an alternative to those other procedures. "Our specific posthypnotic suggestions included such phrases as "You may feel more comfortable and relaxed than you were before" and "You may feel more in control of your own comfort" (Askay et al, 2007). These statements show the power of suggestion at work: the hypnotist did not directly command the subjects to not feel pain, but merely suggested they were more relaxed. The subjects' data of pain and anxiety levels were given through multiple pain assessment scales, used widely for pain assessment. Askay also tested for susceptibility to hypnosis. The global population is not susceptible to hypnosis to the same degree. Scales have been created and tested to evaluate the level of susceptibility to hypnosis. Scales like the Stanford Hypnotic Clinical Scale and the Tellegen Absorption Scale were used by Askay to determine these levels previous to the trials. The results of the study point to an interesting finding as shown in Table 1:
Source: Askay et al., 2007
In this chart, the pain levels before and after treatment of the burn wounds are represented by a value on a scale from zero to one hundred, zero being painless and one hundred meaning unimaginable pain. The worst pain overall was given a value by each subject, as well as their average pain throughout the time spent participating in the study. The average of the experimental groups' worst pain dropped twelve point eight points on the pain assessment scales and twelve point eight on the average pain scales. Even though the worst pain scores for the control group dropped six points more than the experimental group, the average pain scale had a larger decrease for the experimental group compared to the control group. These findings suggest that hypnosis works as well as pharmaceutical drugs for intense pain and possibly better than medication for average pain. When a patient considers the side effects that come with most medicines, hypnosis can be a better alternative to pharmaceutical drugs.
Another clinical trial focused on the use of hypnosis during female breast surgery. Guy Montgomery and other professors from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine administered a fifteen minute pre-surgery session of hypnosis to the experimental group or a fifteen minute non-directive discussion with the control group. The pain levels were assessed on a zero (no pain at all) to one hundred (unimaginable pain) point scale named the Visual Analogue Scale Score, along with other side effects and the amount of anesthesia used during operation (Montgomery et al., 2007). The results of those evaluations are shown in Figure 1:
Figure 1
Source: Montgomery et al., 2007
As shown above, the rating of pain intensity and unpleasantness, along with common side effects of anesthesia, were decreased from the control to the experimental group. The findings were also found to be statistically significant, giving the results clinical meaning. The use of hypnosis before surgery reduced the need for anesthesia, which reduced the intensity of the negative side effects post surgery (Montgomery et al., 2007).
Another study on the effectiveness of hypnosis as a pain reliever asked the question: is hypnosis actually blocking the pain or simply distracting the subject so that they do not notice? David Patterson and others from the University of Washington School of Medicine tested this question with the use of hypnosis and virtual reality. The subjects received thermal pain through a heat machine. They then marked their level of pain on a scale of one to ten, one being no pain and ten being excruciating pain. Each subject then received either a hypnotic session from a recorded tape or was placed in the virtual reality helmet (Patterson, 2006). The subjects who received hypnosis had the thermal heat applied to their foot after being brought out of the hypnotic state. The subjects who were placed in the virtual reality simulator received the thermal pain while in the virtual setting. After sessions of hypnosis or virtual reality, the pain levels were taken according to the same scale used prior to testing (Patterson, 2006). The results of the study present an interesting point. Both the hypnosis and the virtual reality distraction worked effectively in reducing the subject's pain. However, secondary cognitive tasks were completed much easier when a subject used hypnosis. The virtual reality distraction succeeded in distracting the person from the pain, but also caused the subject to lose most other cognitive ability (Patterson, 2006). This study agrees with other previous studies in saying that hypnosis uses suggestion, not distraction, to ease pain. Since subjects were still able to perform secondary cognitive tasks with relative success, hypnosis cannot rely on distraction for pain relief.
Another aspect of hypnosis use in medical practice is the reduced amount of hospital bills. The cost of surgery was tallied for the subjects in both Askay and Montgomery studies. In the Askay study, the subjects saved an average of three hundred dollars when using hypnosis along with anesthesia (Askay et al., 2007). In the Montgomery study, the subjects saved anywhere from nine hundred to two thousand dollars when given a hypnosis session before surgery (Montgomery et al., 2007). These savings should be considered by a patient when discussing procedures with their doctor.
Despite the evidence produced from clinical studies, hypnosis still has critics in the medical field. Most cite the inconsistency of susceptibility in people as a reason hypnosis should not be used. One researcher even looked at the effect a negative relationship with the hypnotist could have on hypnosis effectiveness. Peter Sheehan, along with Vanessa Green and Patricia Truesdale, tested this by hypnotizing subjects and planting pseudo or fake memories in their sub-conscious. Figure 2 shows the results of the study:
Sheehan, 1992
This chart presents the progression of the rapport between the hypnotist and the subject and the levels of comfort of the subject before and after the session (Sheehan, 1992). The findings suggest the hypnotist has a substantial impact on the level of suggestion for the patient being hypnotized. Evidence like this is used to dissuade people from considering hypnosis as a viable option in medicine.
Medical practitioners point to predetermined beliefs as another deterrent to public acceptability of hypnosis. Most patients want the commonly used medicine, without considering alternative procedures. One doctor who was quoted in a Time Magazine article by Sora Song said "People don't want to feel or hear anything. They want to be out." This action continues to perpetuate the stigma that has been attached to hypnosis for most of its existence. Only experience and proven success will convince the majority of the general public. Myths about hypnotism also contribute to the negative public view of hypnosis. Ideas that hypnosis will make the subject lose control and surrender completely are commonly kept (Hypnotherapy, 2009). Amnesia is another big concern for most people. However, amnesia occurs only when the subject is in an extremely deep trance. The majority of people who receive hypnosis can remember everything that went on while in the trance (American Society of Clinical Hypnosis, 2008).
In some countries, hypnosis as a sedative has become a common practice among patients. According to a recent Time Magazine article, hypnosedation is a technique developed by Dr. Marie-Elisabeth Faymonville at the University Hospital of Liege in Belgium. This technique replaces normal anesthesia with a combination of hypnosis, local anesthesia, and a mild sedative (Song, 2006). The article also presents a woman who received pelvic surgery in the U.K. with no anesthesia at all. This story is common in European countries, due to the amount of research on hypnosis being published. Faymonville says she has logged more than five thousand surgeries using hypnosedation at her Belgium hospital (Song, 2006). The increase in patients' use of hypnosis can be attributed to published research and the results of that research. Most studies find a significant decrease in recovery time after the procedure, due to the lower amounts of anesthesia used.
For hypnosis to work in any fashion of medical procedure, the patient has to be susceptible to hypnosis. As mentioned before, the global population is not susceptible to the same degree. Scales have been developed by researchers to test the susceptibility of patients and subjects alike. However, two different theories have formed that explain the differences in suggestibility. Grant Benham explains these in his article Expect the Unexpected: Ability, Attitude, and Responsiveness to Hypnosis. The two theories, he explains, attempt to prove themselves and disprove the alternative. "Indeed, generally speaking there are those theories of hypnosis that afford the central causal role to aptitude (i.e., ability) and those theories that grant center stage to attitude (e.g., expectation, motivation) (Benham et al., 2006). " The aptitude centered and attitude centered theorists focus on one thing in common: the expectancy of success greatly affects the susceptibility of the subject. These findings lead to the development of a third model, by the author. The model focuses on expectancy and ability as predictors for susceptibility to hypnosis (Benham et al., 2006). He tested this model out on ninety undergraduate students with no previous hypnosis experience before. The results were congruent with previous findings of expectancy affecting susceptibility. However, the author clearly states that his findings do not support a claim of expectancy being the sole predetermining factor of susceptibility to hypnosis (Benham et al., 2006). People looking to hypnosis for assistance in medical procedures should ask themselves how much they expect to get out of it, since that is clearly a factor of the success.
In conclusion, hypnosis is a medical tool everyone should consider. Whether attempting to quit smoking, or about to go into surgery, hypnosis can help. The stigma that has become attached to hypnosis robs people of a safe alternative to costly procedures that might not be necessary. Patients should explore other treatments before any surgery with an open mind. Unfortunately, hypnosis is not often seen with an open mind. Hopefully, past and future research into the use of hypnosis can increase interest and help people all over the world who are in need of it discover the benefits of hypnosis.
