Why Bigfoot Exists 11
Why Bigfoot Exists
Joe Meakem
English 105
Kacie Beagan
April 30, 2009
Bigfoot is a topic that is probably not taken seriously. This paper will attempt to prove that the alleged animal is an undiscovered species of ape. This argument will be based on the recent discoveries of "new" species, leaving potential for the "discovery" of Bigfoot. If other animals are being discovered worldwide, why not in the United States? Unfortunately, Bigfoot has become a joke. One usually cannot say he/she believes the animal exists without that person's credibility being lowered. This essay will include evidence that suggests and persuades that Bigfoot is a real animal. While there is evidence that Bigfoot is nonexistent, there is also the possibility that the animal behaves in a completely unique way, making it extremely clandestine. There are some amazing natural phenomena that occur, so it is likely Bigfoot is another one that has yet to be officially observed.
Bigfoot is a topic that is probably not discussed often in professional circles. Because there have been no "official" sightings of the animal, it is easy to dismiss evidence and say that the creature is nonexistent; just a legend. Formal study of Bigfoot has likely been degraded by the creature's existence in pop culture. For example, the movies such as Abominable have thrown Bigfoot into the "screamer movie" genre, a genre that is not taken as seriously in the film industry. This might have contributed to the discrediting of Bigfoot as a serious research topic. Despite these problems, the elusive ape is worthy of scientific study. There is evidence that contributes to the animal's existence, from film to eyewitness accounts. The creature does exist, but is very different from any animal already known. Partly because of this, we obviously have had relatively little experience with Bigfoot. Based on previous knowledge of most other species, the animal can be written off as a myth. But science constantly shows us new discoveries, so it is very possible that Bigfoot is walking the forests of the United States right as this paper is being read.
Native American legends have included a creature similar to Bigfoot in folklore (Rennard, 2000). One might, at first, acquaint this to witchcraft and evil spirits of the middle ages in Europe. But the idea of Bigfoot ("Bigfoot" is not the Native American term) has been a part of tribal folklore of Native American groups from all over the United States-from the Algonquins to those in the northwest. (History.com, 2009) This is an extreme distance over which legends exist. The Algonquins lived along the present day Canada-U.S. border (Wikipedia, 2009), far from the state of Washington and the traditional Bigfoot location. Speaking on a video published on The History Channel's web site, anthropologist David Gilmore commented on Algonquin legends of a Bigfoot-like creature. "They [the Algonquins] had a very powerful belief in a woodland ogre; a creature that would occasionally emerge from the forests. Gigantic, twelve feet tall, claws, the works. Very malicious and malevolent. It would attack animals, tear up forests, then go after people and eat them." Examining this comment shows interesting results. The concept of the "woodland ogre" might be Bigfoot. The fact that the Algonquins apparently rarely saw the animal is consistent with today's sightings. The second part of the comment regarding the animal being dangerous and eating people might be just the result of fears, like the way bears or sharks are viewed. Humans still fear them, despite science claiming that bears and sharks will rarely attack. The Algonquins probably felt a similar fear towards Bigfoot, with their accounts indicating the creature is taller and more ferocious than it actually is. According to the Bigfoot Field Researcher's Organization, these types of legends exist throughout the United States. (2000) The History Channel's show Monsterquest documents legends of creatures that might not exist, and investigates whether these claims are accurate. In an episode about Bigfoot, the show recounts the story of artist Paul Kane. In 1847, Kane recorded a Native American story of what could possibly be Bigfoot (or at least based on it). Kane wrote in his journal: "I stopped to make a sketch of the volcano, Mount Saint Helens. Distant, I suppose, about thirty or forty mile. This mountain has never been visited by either whites or Indians. The latter assert that it is inhabited by a race of beings of a different species who are cannibals in whom they hold in great dread." (Dale & Hajicek, 2007) Fear of Mount Saint Helens seems like a logical one for Washington's Native American inhabitants, who lacked the technology to predict volcanic eruptions. Also, they probably lacked a scientific understanding of how volcanic eruptions occurred, making them possibly attribute an eruption to supernatural sources. One would expect stories of fire beings, or other such creatures associated with volcanoes. But their legends involved a species of cannibals, which they labeled "skookum," which translates as "mountain devil." (Dale & Hajicek, 2007) This sounds extremely similar to Algonquin stories of "woodland ogres," as previously mentioned.
But a question arises: Are these legends based in any type of truth, or are they like the Greek and Roman gods of the ancient world? There is the possibility some stories were made up for religious or other reasons (for example, the Grimm fairy tales used for instructing children). But even the Roman gods and Grimm fairy tales were based on fact. While the Roman gods did not exist, statues of them resembled perfect forms of humans. The Grimm fairy tales were probably based on the general danger of going into the woods. Both of these had some elements of truth. So, it is very possible that the stories of ancient Bigfoot encounters are exaggerated. But the legend, like the two other examples proposed, probably has a basis in a true animal. Native Americans in Washington, like the Algonquians, probably rarely saw the animals, making them mysterious and unknown. Naturally, this would make them more fearful of such an animal. Also, by referring to the creatures as "cannibals" but claiming they were from a "different species" creates a slight paradox. This might mean that the creatures described were similar enough to humans to be considered cannibals, but different enough to not be considered human, unless they meant that the Bigfeet ate each other. Of course, one might ask where this race of cannibals is now. The Native Americans might have referred to the creatures living on Mount Saint Helens for several reasons. They might have truly lived on the mountain, which would explain why sightings were rare. They also might have lived in the forest in the vicinity of the mountain, which is where they still exist today. Bigfoot might inhabit the alpine regions of the west and occasionally venture into the forest, making sightings even more rare. That also might have triggered the story. Kane noted that white men had not climbed the mountain at that time, so the story should not be ruled out.
Another theory about this, however, is that the vast distances between these sightings means the animal does not exist. "Sasquatch sightings and footprints have been reported from every state in the country except Rhode Island. This distribution is more suggestive of a myth than of a mammal." (Cartmill, 2007) While this might be scientifically usable as evidence against bigfoot, it also brings an interesting point up for discussion: the fact that so many different groups of Native Americans, thousands of miles apart, came up with the same idea. This idea of a giant creature existing in the woods is arguably not a part of man's intrinsic nature. Rather, these stories had to be rooted in something. One might then ask how Bigfoot can exist in the more populated Eastern United States. There are theories than can explain that as well. When settlers began moving westward and cultivating the land, they might have simply driven the creature back because its habitat was being destroyed. Or they could have destroyed a principle food supply, making the creatures die of starvation. Obviously this creature is clandestine, so early settlers, who thinly populated the land back then, probably rarely came across it.
Obviously, ancient legends suggest a large creature exists, but does not prove it. Some of the criticisms of "Bigfoot believers" are: no skeletons or fossils, very few encounters, etc. (Discovery, 2009) An undiscovered species of ape living in the North American wilderness could have been undiscovered by science, especially in the forested regions of the west. There have been numerous "new" species that have been discovered recently. In 2000, a species of monkey unknown to western science was discovered in Brazil, called the Manicore Moniset. According to a BBC article, the monkey was kept unknown by "natural barriers." Also notable about this species is that residents of the city of Manaus had pet Manicore Monisets. (BBC, 2000) This shows that an animal can remain unknown to western science, even when it is apparently regularly seen in a populated area. If a pet can be "undiscovered" for years, surely an ape living in the wilderness can be hidden. "I have to stop doing surveys because I keep coming up with something else and I don't have time to write them all up," said Marc Von Roosmalen, the zoologist who discovered the species. (BBC, 2000) There are probably many new species that exist on earth, and it is possible that Bigfoot is one of them.
The country of India contains 15% of Earth's people, yet covers only 2.4% of the earth's surface. (U.S. Department of State, 2009) This makes the nation very densely populated. Despite this, in 2004 a large, previously "unknown" monkey was discovered. "What is also remarkable about our discovery is that few would have thought that with over a billion people and retreating wild lands, a new large mammal species would ever be found in India, of all places," said Dr. M. D. Madhusudan of the Wildlife Conservation Society. Like the Manicore Moniset, this monkey was unknown to western science, but was known to Himalayan locals. Interestingly, this animal is also known to live at altitudes up to 11,500 feet. Could science have discovered the elusive Yeti? This monkey, called Arunachal Macaque, definitely shows that a species of ape might be living in North America that science has yet to discover. It took until 2004 for the western world to be officially aware of Arunachal Macaques (Kirby, 2004).
Even more recently, a new population of orangutans was discovered in Borneo. Even though orangutans were known to science, this specific population (which had over 200 nests) was not known to western science. Once again, however, locals had knowledge of the population, which led to the "find." (BBC, 2009)
There are many more examples of similar animals being found by science. The pygmy-tarsier, for example, was recently discovered in Indonesia. (Locke, 2008) These discoveries show that even in high-altitude and highly populated nations, new species have been found. That being established, it is certainly possible that a similar discovery could occur in the United States. If such a discovery were to be made, it would undoubtedly lend more credibility to other possibly nonexistent animals. Also, in at least three of the discoveries mentioned above, there was local knowledge of the animals before scientific knowledge. In North America, that local knowledge includes the stories from Native Americans, as well as the legitimate eyewitness accounts. And if the orangutan story contributes to Bigfoot, then the animal might not exist in small numbers.
A criticism of Bigfoot's existence is the lack of a carcass. (Discovery, 2009) According to Stefan Lovgren's article for National Geographic News: "Bigfoot buffs note that it's rare to find a carcass of a grizzly bear in the wild." (2003) If large grizzly bear bodies are rare finds, then it would make sense that an already secretive creature's body would be difficult to find as well. And according to the article, there are scientists who believe the animal is real. Idaho State University professor Jeff Meldrum is quoted, saying: "Given the scientific evidence I have examined, I'm convinced there's a creature out there that is yet to be indentified." There is evidence pointing to Bigfoot's existence as well, including an interesting find on an expedition to Skookum Meadows in Washington in 2000. By baiting a mud hole with fruit, researchers found impressions left by an animal attempting to get the fruit. A cast was taken of the site, and after analysis, it was determined that the impression was not made by a human or known animal. (History 2007, Lovgren 2003)
Of course, one of the best-known pieces of evidence for Bigfoot is the 1967 film by Roger Patterson, apparently of a Bigfoot walking. History, via the show Monsterquest, showed a modern analysis of the footage. The film shows what looks like a Bigfoot in the forest, walking away from Patterson. The study of the footage on Monsterquest was in two parts. First, research was performed to see if a person could walk like the alleged creature in the film. The result: according to the show, the manner in which the subject walked in the Patterson film was impossible for the human body to replicate. While this gives the film some credibility, the study had a serious flaw. From what the episode shows, only one person was used to compare to the creature in the film. There might be someone else who has a different gait that could replicate the walking style. The second study involved examining the film with modern equipment. This brought in some convincing results. The subject filmed had an extremely detailed face. So detailed, that researchers were able to note mouth and eyelid movement. That seems very elaborate for a costume, which lends serious credibility to the film. It seems that whatever Roger Patterson filmed that day, it was not a human. "I don't see anything that stands out and glaringly says 'fake'. The way the mouth.can move and even makes facial expressions that are similar to those of chimpanzees.and the compressed lip display-you know, I don't know who would think of that," said Owen Caddy, one of the researchers who examined the film, "I don't think anyone would have anticipated the ability to come back forty years later and do photo enhancements to show details this great." (History, 2007) While this evidence does not conclusively prove the film was not a hoax, it does show that the film should not be immediately dismissed.
Until it is actually officially "discovered," Bigfoot evidence will never be taken seriously. The Patterson film has not convinced the world. The famous 1958 footprints-to which Bigfoot owes his name-were later admitted as faked. (Cartmill, 2007) No picture or video to date has completely convinced western science that Bigfoot is real. Saying this makes the future look bleak for believers in this elusive animal. True, evidence does suggest that Bigfoot is completely false. But, as this paper brings to light, there is also a fair amount of evidence that suggests there is an unknown ape species in North America. Also, the similarity of these similar stories from different cultures means that Bigfoot should not be forgotten about by science. And speaking of science, do not forget about the multiple recent discoveries of "new" species. That alone discounts the theory that Bigfoot does not exist because of a lack of corpses. The United States is not as tame as we think in terms of the wild. Despite our technology, tornadoes still wreak havoc, earthquakes still happen, and bears still attack people. This is the same "science" that is telling us that Bigfoot is entirely a hoax. Science is certainly a noble and excellent pursuit, though one should not always be one hundred percent certain about conclusions drawn. Scientists must carefully study Bigfoot's existence so people can start reversing this recent bad trend: Bigfoot has become a joke, so there is probably little to no scientific research done. That might be why Bigfoot's existence has never been officially validated.
