Dan Hodge
Betsy Divine
Eng 105
03/31/09
Budget Cuts: War on Education
Education is important; this is almost an irrefutable fact. Regardless of what career or vocation one chooses in life, the skills learned in school can be useful. Public schools are where most Americans receive their basic K-12 education. Education should be high on any state's priorities as it can help to improve communities by increasing the general knowledge and skills of the people. However, Arizona's state legislature recently proposed over 900 million dollars in budget cuts from K-12 and higher education. Although action must be taken to ease Arizona's deficit, these cuts cause major problems in both the immediate and distant future and should not be placed on the shoulders of education.
Before looking at the problems these cuts may cause, one must first understand what exactly they entail. Currently, the United States is in an economic recession which is leading many people to take drastic financial measures. The educational budget cuts in Arizona are in reaction to the trying times the country is currently facing. No one can blame the legislature for attempting to dig its way out of the deficit it has fallen into. However, there needs to be a better method. How can such a large amount of money being taken from the education fund be the best solution? Could the money not be taken from various other areas and thus lessen the load that education must bare? The answer is yes. If the legislation would reduce the cuts to education and increase cuts to other areas of the budget, such as prisons and other such facilities it would alleviate some of the stress being put on education. It would initially affect more people but to a lesser degree. If the debt is shared by many different departments, each department won't have to lose as much funding. Many groups such as the Arizona Education Association (AEA) believe that the legislature's decision is a turn for the worse based on exaggerated information regarding the percentage of the budget that education uses. To put it plainly, they manipulated the statistics to influence the opinions of the legislature.
The AEA has been one of the leading opponents of the education budget cuts since the beginning. They have put out informative research and hosted public demonstrations to help voice their opposition. Much of this research has been focused on the information presented by the proponents of the cuts to support them. In their reports, the state's Republican Party shows the increase in public education spending since 1986-87, but does not account for the rise in population in Arizona. If they had taken into account population and inflation, their reports would show that Arizona actually spent less per student in 87-89 than it did in the 07-08 school year (AEA). It seems as though the proponents are trying to throw out numbers that might scare or confuse people into agreeing with them. Education is expensive, but it is extremely vital to the future of Arizona as well as any state. In a struggling economy, these cuts add to the turmoil and uncertainty people face every day.
Arizona's proposed budget cuts are causing some very immediate problems for many people, especially teachers. One of the major issues many teachers face is the uncertainty of continued employment this coming fall. Many schools are being forced to cut much of their faculty and as most schools have not yet made definitive choices, many employees are left to worry. Teachers in Arizona have never appeared to be the top priorities when the budget is concerned and have low average salaries compared to the national average (ATF). On top of everything else, teachers now have lost their job security. The deadline for informing these teachers of their job standing is set in April. This gives the teachers very little time to find new employment. Educators and other faculty that remain will face hard times as well. With such large cuts, many departments that require special equipment will be hurt from the tight budget. Science equipment, sports gear, projectors, and books are all eligible to be cut. With employment being so scarce in Arizona what will the teachers without jobs do? It is possible that they will leave the state in search of other opportunities. The state legislature does not realize that quality teachers are a precious resource. By giving them reason to leave Arizona will lose that resource. With these types of layoffs happening, what reasons do new teachers have to stay? The Arizona State Legislature is driving current and future teachers out. Who pays for this? Students and the rest of the state. With fewer teachers, class sizes will increase. Teachers will have even more students to per class, meaning that they will not be able to give as much individual help. This could lead to many students getting left behind.
These cuts do not just affect K-12 schools alone, universities such as Northern Arizona University (NAU) will also face some uncertainty come fall. This coming year, the average in state student's total estimated cost for attending NAU will increase roughly 2,000 dollars from last year's cost (NAU Fin Aid 1). This is due to new student fees proposed to combat the 20 million dollars that will be cut from NAU's budget (Haeger 1). This not only effects current and future students but faculty and programs in departments of all kinds. As a science education major at NAU, this makes me worry about next semester and my career. What state will Arizona's education system be in five years from now and how might these cuts effect it?
If the cuts do not help the state's deficit as hoped, many more problems will come about in time. If more cuts are required, the quality of Arizona's public education will drop severely into an even worse condition. If the quality of available education drops, state standards will be lowered as well. Because tests like the SATs do not vary by state, Arizona students might fail to measure up to national averages. This could lead to less federal funding for education which would further disrupt schools' ability to provide an adequate education (as seen in Chart# 1 below).
Chart #1
A lack of teachers may also result from low salaries and poor working environments that could be caused by the lack of funding. If the quality of education drops then it is probable that a large number of people will enter the job market without the benefit of a solid education. Also, tuition for higher education will go up in the years to come if the legislature's attitude toward education continues. Their general view on education seems to be that it is just a department they can get money from without any consequences. They could not be further from the truth. All of these are probable outcomes and none are beneficial to Arizona because they will drastically affect the future wellbeing of the state. Why is education taking such a large hit from the legislature? Why is so much of their attention focused on this part of the budget? Why not prisons or other state funded programs? This question remains unanswered by those who endorse this bill.
Other programs need money as well, not just education. While education accounts for a higher percentage of general fund (GF) spending other programs require a
Chart#2
Source: Az. Leg.
fair amount of funds as well. The legislature could cut some funding from these departments to help the situation. For example The Arizona Department of Corrections (ADC) accounts for about 12% of the overall budget could be cut. Even taking just 3% from this department would help decrease the amount taken from education and still leave the ADC with enough funding to run their facilities. Another possible course of action would be for the state to stop giving funding to private schools. Aren't private schools supposed to be just that, privately funded? Why should the state give fundong to these schools if they are not public institutions? This is an unnecessary expenditure and would help reduce the cost of education for the general fund. The United States supreme court seems to agree as it recently denied vouchers proposed by the Arizona Legislature to fund private schools with tax payer's money (AEA).
One cannot help but wonder why the Republican Party is focusing so heavily on the education budget. Some have claimed that it is because education accounts for a large amount of Arizona's overall budget. K-12 education accounts for about 43% of Arizona's general fund distribution (seen in Chart#2)(Az.leg.). This seems to support the Republican Party's justifications for targeting education as opposed to other agencies. It is evident that education costs money, however, is it not worth the cost? Education is a key factor in any state because it is an investment in the future. In order to properly function and be productive within a society, one needs some sort of education be it high school, trade school, or a bachelor's degree. This education requires materials, employees, facilities, and much more to be effective. No one can argue that education is costly; however, no one can argue that the cost is not worth the reward.
To be fair, it is entirely possible that the cuts might help alleviate the Arizona's deficit and the cuts will not have a large effect in the long run. However, is this a gamble the state legislature is willing to take? What are they betting with? In this case, the risk is simply too high, the cuts could last longer than anticipated. Many predict that the recession is coming to an end soon but rumors have been saying that for the last year. The economy seems very unpredictable right now, who can say what the right course of action is; It is one of the responsibilities of the state legislature to protect the rights and interests of the people in Arizona. Does not everyone in Arizona, and the entire United States, deserve the benefit of a solid education? Of course they do, that is how a state builds productive members of society and furthers the success of the state as a whole.
Apparently, the idea of making education a top priority is shared by people as high up as the oval office. Recently, President Barrack Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to help families and public schools in need. The bill will bring over 2 billion dollars into Arizona for education related spending (AEA). Over 800 million dollars will go to direct assistance for needy schools within Arizona. This will greatly help alleviate pressure on schools from the budget cuts. This shows that the federal attitude toward education is improving with this new administration. It gives a future teacher like me hope to see this kind of action being taken to help Arizona education.
In conclusion, the proposed budget cuts to Arizona's education funding are more of a hindrance than a solution. The entire state will be negatively affected by them in one way or another. Education is part of the foundation of any state's future and should be a priority for those elected officials that are paid to do what is in the best interest for the people they represent. What will it take for the proponents of these bills to realize that Arizona's education is in need of adequate funding? With Arizona currently 49th in the U.S. for education the real question is: How low can we go?
Work Cited
Arizona Education Association. 04/06/09. Arizona Education Association. 04/0609.[http://arizonaea.org/politics.php]
Haeger, John D. Letter to family of NAU student. 03/06/09. Office of the President.
NAU Office of Financial Aid. Letter to aid recipient. 03/17/09.
American Federation of Teachers (ATF). Salary Surveys. 2008
Arizona State Legislature (Az. Leg.). Fiscal history. 2009. <http://www.azleg.gov/jlbc/fiscal.htm>
8
