Christine Brunson
English 105
Extended Argument
Chains to Change back to Chains over a Word
Throughout history up until the present day derogatory words were used to put individuals down, the N-word in particular was used to put African Americans down for many centuries. Different stages in African American history such as the time of Jim Crow, slavery, The Civil Rights Movement and now in the 21st century show how this word has changed physically throughout history. For example when the word was first introduce by the Latin Americans it was spelled N-i-g-e-r and meant the color black, then the word was adopted by the Americans and since that day has been a way of putting African Americans down. In this paper I will discuss the controversy over the N-word and the different justification that people give in order to justify who can say it and who can not. I will talk about the history of the word and how people think it has changed. In addition, I will explore the idea that some people think words are just words, and then explain how this is untrue, by giving examples of harmful outcomes that have occurred as a result of just words. These issues include the case of Nasir Jones naming his CD the word Nigger, Don Imus and the story of Calvin Terell. Lastly I will explain that the African American community is not the only community trying to take a negative word back from the original meaning; the homosexual community is doing the same thing with the word queer.
Justifications for using the N-word
Today in the society we live in we are constantly faced with derogatory words and the big question comes up, who can say them and who can not? Merriam Webster online dictionary defines derogatory as "detracting from the character or standing of something" ( www.merriam-webste). Bamboozled is a movie written and directed by Spike Lee. In the movie Michael Rapaport plays Thomas Durwaty who is a tactless white man. In the office scene of the movie Thomas gets angry at Delocrouix for being late to mandatory meeting and begins to talk about CP time, according to Delocrouix"
C.P. time is Colored People's time, the stereotypical belief that Negroes are always late. "That Negroes have no sense of time -time except when it comes to music or dance". Micheal then goes on to say that he understands because"If the truth be told I probably know "niggers" better than you, Monsieur Delacroix'. Please don't get offended by my use of the quote-unquote use of the N word. I got a black wife and two bi-racial children, so I feel I have a right to use that word" (Bamboozled).
The idea behind this statement comes from the feeling he has pertaining to the African American culture. He feels that since his wife and kids are African American then it is acceptable to use the N-word; which is ridiculously wrong to believe. For example Calvin Terrell is the director at Aztec town. Aztec town's mission is to promote social justice. While at camp, Calvin tells a story of how he and a group of friends used to always throw the N-word around in their group. One day his white friend decided to use it because he thought it was socially tolerable since everyone else used it; as a result he was beaten to death (Terrell). Ironically enough it is still considered wrong if you are white and have black friends, and still find it socially acceptable to use the N-word. Moreover the idea that words are just words is ludicrous to believe because throughout history there has been many arguments, fights and wars started over words. I think Randell Kenndey said it the best " but never underestimate the word's complexities, for bad and for good, nigger is thus destined to remain with us for many years to come -- a reminder of the ironies and the dilemmas, the tragedies and glories, of the American experience"( http://www.cnn.com).
Different Views of Who Can and Who Can Not use the N-word
In order to learn more about how different types of people feel about the use N-word I decided to interview three people; an African American boy, an African American girl and a bi racial girl. Tremayne Watford is a 19 year old African American male who believes that it is acceptable for African Americans to use the N-word. When asked if it was acceptable for white people to use the N-word he replied "no unless they are my friends or have that type of relationship with black people"(Watford). I then asked Tremayne what he thinks of other "minorities" using the word such as Mexicans and/or Puerto Ricans. He replied "it is common" (Watford). My next interview was on a girl name Fatu Tunkara who is an 18 year old African American girl, stated that it is acceptable for African Americans to use the N-word when talking to other African American, but on the contrary not acceptable for white people and other minorities to use(Tunkara). My final interview was with a girl name Shela Willams who believed that it is socially tolerable for anyone to use the N-word as long as they "do not use it in a derogatory way"(Williams). The three individuals point of view that I received were totally different and show that even the African American community can not decide if the word is acceptable and as a result of this clash , there have been many different acts of hypocrisy.
Hypocrisy Behind The N-word
Christopher Bridges, also known as Ludacris, and many other rappers constantly use this harmful word in their music. Ludacris played a role movie called Crash. Crash is a movie about racial and social tensions in Los Angeles. After the movie Crash came out, Oprah Winfrey who is a very famous African American woman invited Ludacris and other cast members onto her notorious talk show. While on the show Oprah informed Ludacris about how she feels about his music. Oprah said "I disagree with your use of the N-word in your music (Winfrey)". As a result of this Oprah and Ludacris had a falling out, because he felt that this was not the appropriate time to discuss how Oprah feels about his music. Furthermore he felt that it was not right for her to say that she dislikes all of his music because he does not use the N-word in all his music (Ludacris). Another artist who stumbled upon controversy about the N-word is Kanye West. Kanye West is a rapper that uses the N-word in almost all of his music. Many people in society see him as a hypocrite because Kanye West does not like it when people who are not African American call him the N-word. Both Kayne West and Ludacris believe that when people outside the African American community use the N-word it is derogatory, but when people within the African American community use the word it is seen as term of endearment. They also believe that when African Americans use the N-word they are taken the word back from the original negative meaning.
Throughout history up until the present day the word Nigger has been given many different meanings, but the original meaning or intent was to put down African Americans. According to a website about African American history the word nigger is traced to the Latin word Niger that means black, this word became a noun in the English language (http://www.aaregistry.com). Even though the original meaning of the word was a color, by the 1800's the word nigger was considered a negative word. The word nigger carries hatred and disgust to African Americans. Historically the word nigger made fun of and ridiculed all blacks. " Nagger was a term of exclusion and a verbal reason for discrimination, this harmful word strengthened the stereotypes that were given to African American such as but not limited to; lazy, stupid, and worthless"( http://www.aaregistry.com).
During the time of Jim Crow and years before the N-word's sole purpose was to put down African Americans. During the time of American Slavery, masters would call their slaves the N-word. Uncle Tom's Cabin is an anti slavery novel by Harriet Beacher Stowe. In Uncle Tom's Cabin Harriet uses the N-word over 700 times. It was common for white people to use the N-word in books and when speaking to an African American. Another book that uses the N-word a number of times is The Adventures of Huckleberry Fin written by Mark Twain. The Adventures of Huckleberry Fin is about journey of a boy name Huck and his friend Jim who was a runaway slave. These novels became very controversy round the 20th century because people began to disagree with the vulgar words and racial slurs such as the N-word in these novels. In the 21st there have been many court cases that have challenged if Uncle Toms Cabin and The Adventures of Huckleberry Fin should be taught in high school such as the case of Monterio vs. Tempe Unified School district. Kathy Monterio who is an African American women wanted to remove The Adventures of Huckleberry Fin from the required reading list because she did not think that was appropriate for schools to force students to read a book with such vulgar language. The courts acknowledged that words can be harmful but" a book approved by the school officials or its educational value does not violate federal civil rights law" (http://www.freedomforum.org). They then went on to say that courts can not "ban books or other literary works from school curricula on the basis of their content, even when the works are accused of being racist," said the opinion by Judge Stephen Reinhard"(http://www.freedomforum.org). This case was found in favor of Tempe Unified High School District because it is "simply not the role of courts to serve as literary censors or to make judgments as to whether reading particular books does students more harm than good" (http://www.freedomforum.org). This court case was ironic because even though the judge acknowledged that this book had racist terms that could possibly make African Americans feel uncomfortable; it was still allowed to be on the summer reading list at the Tempe Unified Tempe High school.
I believe that is a paradox that The Adventure of Huckleberry Fin was not banned from the summer reading list but when the rapper Nasir Jones wanted to title his CD Nigger he received negative attention from the media and black leaders such as Al Sharpton and Reverend Jessie Jackson. Nasir says "I don't think I liked the attention I was getting from some of the elders in my community (http://www.cnn.com)." Also there were many racial issues such as Jena Six which was a huge controversy over the beating of white man named Justin Baker by six African Americans. Don Imus, who is a radio show host, called a few women off the Rutgers women's basketball team "Niggers". As a result of these issues, Nasir felt that it was not appropriate to name his CD Nigger. Nasir states that he was not trying to use the word Nigger in a negative way but as a term of endearment and in a positive to way to talk about all of the struggles African American have gone through such as from being slaves and being worth little to nothing and now African Americans are powerful people in the American society. This is a picture of what Nasir Jones CD wanted the album cover to look like. Nassir Jones is not the only individual who received negative attention for wanting to title one of his pieces of work "Nigger". Randell Kennedy who is the author of a book titled Nigger The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word received negative attention not only from the media but also from the African American community. The media did not think that it was socially acceptable for the title of a book to be the word nigger. The African American community is not a big fan of Randell because they believe he is a sell out. This book title was so controversial that it was not only in the media but a show called Boston Public had an episode about the teaching of this book by a white professor. The African American professor disagreed with a white professor teaching African American students about the N-word and the struggle that their ancestors went through. Because no matter how much he reads he would never be able to relate
I believe that the different reason that people give for using the N-word is ludicrous because each of the reasons that people gave for using the N-word there were negative effects, like the Calvin Terrell story. I feel that the N-word should not be said no matter what your race is or no matter who you hang-out with because the original meaning of this word was negative and it is impossible to change history of a word. The N-word carries so much negative baggage, that I would hope we as individuals would not go back to being called something that the white master would call our ancestor while they were either picking cotton or being raped. No matter how you spell the word, no matter who says the word it is still a mechanism to bring African Americans down and can never be seen as form of endearment because of the original context.
The African American community is not the only community that is trying to take a word back from the original meaning; for example the Homosexual community is trying to take the word queer back from the original meaning which was originally used to put homosexuals down. Now in the 21st century homosexuals use this word to describe other homosexuals or even to describe them. One day I asked a homosexual why did they use the word queer and they said because it was a no longer a negative word, they were taken this word back also from the original meaning.
All and all, the N-word has been a mechanism to not only put Africans down but also as a form of endearment. This harmful and ugly word has caused controversy not only in the African American community but in other communities as well because some people do not know if it is appropriate to use the word as shown in the story about Calvin Terrell story.
Furthermore this word has caused so much controversy as proven in the story abour Nasir Jones and the title of his CD, the book Nigger. The Strange History of Troublesome word. The Adventures of Huckleberry Fin and Uncle Tom's Cabin . All of these and stories and interviews prove that the American society can not even decide if the word Nigger is acceptable. I feel that until the American society can decide if this word is acceptable or not than it should not be used. Also the physical change of the word can not change the historic meaning.
Work Cited
Bamboozled. Dir. Spike Lee. Perf. Micheal Rapaport. DVD. 2000. Film. Bamboozled is a film that came out in
Calvin Terrell. Telephone Interview April 12, 2009
Fatu Tunkara . Telephone. Interview April 23, 2009
First Ammendment. "Federal appeals court allows Huck Fin to remain on schools reading list".
October 20, 1998. April 20, 2009
"History of the word Nigger." www.aaregistry.com . 01/09/2008. African American Registry. 2006.
Kennedy, Randell. Nigger; The Strange Career Of a Troublesome Word. New York: Vintage, 2002.
"Nigger." Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2009. Merriam-Webster Online. 15 April
Oprah Windfry show. Christopher Bridges. ABC, New York. 06/10/2005. TV
Shela Williams. Personal Interview. April 23, 2009
Brunson1
