A Question of Hawaii Sovereignty Pt. 2
Nicole Mayer
English 105
Jacquelyn Belknap
April 30, 2009
Ua mau ke'ea o ka aina i ka pono- The life of the land perpetuates in righteousness, Hawaii's state motto when taken literally means that in order for the earth to perpetuate there needs to be righteousness amongst its people and the land. This does not mean world peace, it means that there needs to be a righteous bond between humans and the land. We as humans are to take care of the land and in return the land will take care of us. If the land belongs to no one who decides how it is to be used? This is a very controversial question that is continuously being brought up in Hawaii's local politics. Another moral or value that many people of Hawaii hold is the family. Growing up in Hawaii, you are born with a strong family core. Within your family you learn your culture and the responsibilities of being a part of that family. The adults are usually the educators of the culture being passed however, all family members can impact each others' upbringing. If the "political unit" was thought of as a family, than a Hawaiian family could easily argue that they are sovereign in that they are responsible for their own affairs. Some people of Hawaii, for many years, have and still today believe that their state should be considered sovereign. Like their family unit, collectively, they have a mindset that Hawaii is sovereign and is fully capable to responsibly regulate their own relations. Sovereignty, as stated above, is the ability to regulate (one's) own affairs, for hundreds and thousands of years ago people all over the world including those in Hawaii, regulated the land perfectly. Hawaii, being a part of the United States, is regulated by the country's government. Its land use, though at times may be controversial to Hawaii's citizens, are decided by the United States. It is commonly believed that with more experience comes more knowledge and with more knowledge better decisions are made. Though this may be true, Hawaii's land use should be decided among the citizens.
For a state, commonly known as a country, to be considered sovereign, it needs to be responsible for its own affairs. A life lesson and also a political moral, with power comes responsibility, directly correlates to the ideology of sovereignty in that a sovereign territory has the power and freedom to regulate its own affairs. Experience and knowledge is vital for a government to effectively maintain its power over its own citizens and also among other countries. If a government is lacking in either components it could easily be overthrown. Hawaii's previous, pre modern monarchical government experienced an overthrow due to the fact that it could not stand against a more developed country, the United States. The United States had a military, trained and armed with an imperialistic outlook. It was almost inevitable that Hawaii would be overthrown. The outcome of what Hawaii was to become was unpredictable. With the stumbling economy of the United States recently, Hawaii is also encountering difficult financial times.
Located in the middle of the pacific islands, Hawaii is the most isolated body of land and population. As a result of the industrial revolutions in the west, globalization has occurred. No longer is there a country whose population consists entirely of a single ethnicity. Ethics, faiths, and religions are more widely accepted and adapted, foreign languages are being learned and spoken fluently, and with the most recent and still developing technology people can easily experience cultures on the side of the world. Being so isolated as Hawaii is, it would be difficult for Hawaii to contribute to this phenomenon independently. There would have been no way for Hawaii to communicate with other parts of the world, their ideas and innovations. Also, without being imperialized by a more developed country, Hawaii may not have able to obtain the capacity to become innovative. The education of Hawaii's people would have been limited and with today's global community growing closer, it would have been a lot harder for Hawaii's people to participate in this global economy. It may even have come down to Hawaii being categorized as a third world or under developed country. Adding to this point, if Hawaii ever was in that position, the population of Hawaiians would may have even been drastically reduced and close to diminished.
Hawaii is a unique state. It had its own pre existing culture before it became a part of the United States. Though geographically insignificant, it is home to a culture so abundant in history and spirit. After annexation, Hawaii became more and more western. The Hawaiian language was replaced by English and the polytheistic religion was taken over by Christianity. Though the United States had what they believed was a probable cause for their seizure, such as an ideal pacific location for the navy, others may argue otherwise. Generally, they view imperialism as selfish and abused status symbol that the United States thought was necessary when deciding their actions on Hawaii. For that, the Hawaii sovereignty activists' have furthered their movement.
As a resident of Hawaii, born and raised, the issue of sovereignty has been a continuous issue heard in the local news. Active Hawaiians have roamed towns seeking support to gain Hawaii's sovereignty back. They march along roadways, sent up informative tents at popular events, and create convincing commercial advertisements to spread their message. However, as extravagant as their campaign may be, the contradicting side to the issue raises more logical questions that the most educated on the topic may not be able to answer. With that said, Hawaii sovereignty should still be up for debate until further information and alternatives to frequent questions are answered.
Since the gain on complete sovereignty is not quite the best solution to the contradicting topic, partial sovereignty is attainable. Instead of having to deal with the issues discussed above, activist fighting for sovereignty should negotiate at partial sovereignty or sovereignty when it comes to land issues. What is meant by partial sovereignty, or land use sovereignty, is that instead of the United States regulating what and where development is to be established, the citizens of Hawaii are able to make that decision. This is through voting, collaborating with others interested in the same issue, and peaceful lobbying.
Partial sovereignty, as stated above, would be a negotiation between the two warring opinions of complete sovereignty and to remain under full control of the United States. This is the best solution to the conflict of sovereignty because both sides gain and lose.
Since Hawaii was illegally annexed into the Untied States, technically this state should be able to recover their sovereignty. If complete sovereignty is ever attained by Hawaii a huge wave of political chaos will sweep over the state. A currency system will need to established, a new constitution or set of laws needs to be written and enforced along with taught and adapted among the people. This would bring up the issue of who is considered an American or Hawaii citizen. For those that would be considered a Hawaii citizen issues of regaining American citizenship will arise. More and more issues and questions will be exposed making complete sovereignty not as sought after.
On the other hand, if Hawaii has no sovereignty, issues will continue to arise. Organizations such as Kau Inoa (register your name) and Ku I Ka Pono (fight for justice), are composed of Hawaiian activists that continue to fight for certain rights, causes, and sovereignty. Though there are no cases of activities getting out of hand, these organizations should not have to function.
When a certain population of people, whether minority or not, have been fighting for a certain cause for consecutive years, it is only logical but to think that whatever their cause is it must have some sort of sentimental importance. This is an issue constantly being encountered by the people of Hawaii. Sovereignty was, by force and illegally, taken from the ancient monarchical government of Hawaii. On one side of the issue Hawaiian activists are lobbying for justice and on the other side, exactly the opposite. The perfect solution is peaceful, a product of effective negotiation, and mutual. Partial sovereignty would put an end to the need of activist organizations and the careless use of sentimental Hawaiian land.
A Question Pt. 2 1
