Wal-Mart 1
Extended Argumentative Paper: Wal-Mart
Stephanie Flores
English 105
Ms. Clark-Sanchez
April 30, 2009
Wal-Mart: Good or Bad?
One of the biggest corporations within the United States today is Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart, although very well known, is known by many for the wrong reasons. Destroyer of small business, high prices, and bad labor practices are but a few of the complaints against Wal-Mart. However, arguments used to prove these complaints are both inaccurate and misrepresented. The critics of Wal-Mart have led many to believe that Wal-Mart is bad for individuals, communities, and the entire nation. This misleading information portrays Wal-Mart as the "bad guy" taking over America. There are multiple factors that need to be discussed so as to fully understand Wal-Mart's point of view. These include Wal-Mart's effect on small businesses, communities, consumers, and suppliers. Although Wal-Mart has many critics, it does far more good than harm to the American people and operates ethically in terms of the capitalist system in which it functions. By analyzing common criticisms of Wal-Mart, we can begin to understand that Wal-Mart is not to blame for the consequences of capitalism.
Sam Walton opened the first Wal-Mart in 1962. "That same year, S.S. Kresge launched K-Mart, F.W. Woolworth started Woolco, and Dayton Hudson began its Target chain" (Huey, 1998). Although all these retailers opened their doors in the same year, Wal-Mart has achieved greater success than the rest. Due to their efficient business practices they grew exponentially, leaving the other retailers behind. After years of work and progress, Wal-Mart is now being met with much disdain. (Huey, 1998).
When one particular company has power or success, it is inevitable that they will gain critics of this success. Wal-Mart is the largest retailer in the world. Wal-Mart "is three times the size of the No. 2 retailer" (Bianco & Zellner, 2003).
Their low prices have resulted in 138 million shoppers visiting their stores every week. In addition, "Wal-Mart Corporation employs nearly one million workers in the United States-more than any other private company" (Basker, 2004). Wal-Mart's success has led to many criticisms from those who feel Wal-Mart has a negative effect on the United States. Due to their large size from continued success, they are criticized. These criticisms are many and generally prove to be exaggerated or untrue.
Wal-Mart is criticized for destroying small businesses within communities. It is true that with lower prices and more variety, Wal-Mart causes smaller businesses to lose customers, eventually driving them out of business. However, one must realize that when Wal-Mart enters a community, the only businesses that fail are "the ones in direct competition with the product lines that Wal-Mart carries" (Bandyk, 2008). Although there have been small business failures within communities after the installation of Wal-Mart stores, the presence of Wal-Mart is not the sole factor that causes small businesses to fail. In reality, "eighty percent of all new small businesses fail in their first five years" (Murphy, 2007). These businesses are eventually replaced with new ones that may or may not be successful. The reason for these failures is the consumer, not Wal-Mart. When a consumer chooses to shop at Wal-Mart, other businesses lose customers. The availability of cheap prices and variety attracts more customers. This is a working business model and the nature of supply and demand. Customers demand low prices, Wal-Mart supplies them so they get the customers.
Aside from small businesses, Wal-Mart is also a competitor to other large retailers. In comparison to other retailers, Wal-Mart is by far the biggest and most successful."It sells in three months what number-two retailers Home Depot sells in a year.it does more business than Target, Sears, Kmart, J.C. Penny, Safeway and Kroger combined" (Fishman, 2007). Their ability to supply the consumer leads to more profits and more customers.
"Consumers often benefit from increased competition in differentiated product settings." (Hausman & Leibtag, 2007). This increased competition causes the retailer to analyze their way of doing business. Generally, a retailer will try and lower prices to beat out the competition. These practices all result in a benefit to the consumer. (Hausman & Leibtag, 2007).
According to some, Wal-Mart does not really have the lowest prices and they engage in practices that take advantage of the customer. Supposedly, after driving out competition, prices are raised. However, this viewpoint is generally untrue "On average, a Wal-Mart supercenter offers prices 14% below its rivals" (Bianco & Zellner, 2003). These numbers allow for small price raises, if any, by Wal-mart without affecting their business model or driving away the customer. This ability to provide low prices to consumers is especially needed with the economy in its current state. In some respects, Wal-Mart does not have the lowest prices on every individual product within the store but overall, they provide the most variety and value to the consumer due to their large size and their desire to keep the customer.
Wal-Mart continues to better itself compared to its competition and to offer lower prices due to its remarkable productivity. "The history of Wal-Mart is a history of increases in productivity" (Kirklin, 2006). This business is constantly trying to improve itself by using the latest technology which returns the benefits to its consumers. Wal-Mart is among the first to begin testing radio frequency identification in hopes that it will increase productivity and speed up processes such as checking out. With this technology customers can have their orders scanned as a whole instead of individually one by one. The use of this more efficient technology allows Wal-Mart as a whole to be more effective. This efficiency is the reason why they can offer such low prices unlike their competitors. Wal-mart has been using this theory of efficiency since its founding. They "started off buying products in larger volumes to get them cheaper per unit" (Kirklin, 2006) in order to pass the savings on to the consumer and make a profit. Their business model has always been in favor of low prices thanks to Sam Walton and continues that ideal to this day.
Critics have accused Wal-Mart of bullying suppliers into accepting their demands: "Many suppliers are reportedly feeling squeezed and pressured by giant retailers into taking expensive actions such as lowering prices, accelerating delivery times, offering special allowances, or carrying extra inventory" (Bloom & Perry, 2001). Although suppliers are sometimes forced to make changes, a partnership with Wal-Mart is beneficial: "Large-share suppliers to Wal-Mart extract more profits from their market share than do their counterparts without such a relationship" (Bloom & Perry, 2001). With a partner such as Wal-Mart, a supplier will always have a steady buyer during tough times. If the supplier is unhappy with the prices being that they are being paid, they can choose to not do business with Wal-Mart. Supply and demand once again proves to be a strong factor in decisions. If the supplier wants a buyer, they must accommodate them or risk losing business.
Wal-Mart is known for importing products from overseas, mainly China. The labor laws within China are minimal in comparison to the United States which causes many to believe Wal-Mart is operating illegally. Wal-Mart however is trying to change that position. Although they do import products from China, "In a new agreement with its suppliers, the world's largest retailer will require factories to certify compliance with laws and regulations where they operate" (Market Watch, 2008). Wal-Mart is attempting to raise the standard so as to be more accepted by the American people. Although the standard will not be equal to that of America, it would still be an improvement that is more environmentally and ethically friendly.
Working at a Wal-Mart store is generally seen as a horrible job to have due to its reputation of poor pay and bad benefits with about "50 percent of Wal-Mart employees in the U.S quit every year" (Leonard, 2007). Most people criticize the wages and health benefits received by the employees. Although the health benefits are not currently at their highest, Wal-Mart is taking measures to change this. "Whatever numbers you use, the fact is there is a consistent upward trend in the percentage of employees with Wal-Mart health coverage" (Medical News Today, 2007). Although Wal-Mart is making an effort to improve their image concerning health benefits, the fault once again lays with the government. "Many people are under the false impression that employers are responsible for the healthcare costs of their employees" (Kirklin, 2006). This belief is due in large part to the government. They give off the belief that it is an employer's responsibility to provide the healthcare costs of their employees. "For several decades, the government has put pressures - mainly powerful tax incentives-on companies to offer healthcare as a fringe benefit" (Kirklin, 2006). These "fringe" benefits are another way in which to pay wages but due to government intervention, many believe the employer is required to pay them when in reality it is not their responsibility. If the employer did choose to pay these costs, as most do, it would be cheaper for them than if the employee were to pay for it. However once again the employer is not required or obligated to pay for these health benefits. (Kirklin, 2006).
The salary of an average associate is currently set close to minimum wage, though it varies by location within the United States. Although many consider this to be too low, Wal-Mart is following the laws and paying the national minimum wage at the very least. The wage that Wal-Mart pays some of its employees is said to be lower than that of the living wage. This caused dispute within Chicago due to the fact that they wanted the wage Wal-Mart payed its employees to be increased (Skorburg, 2006). Although this ordinance was vetoed by the mayor, it continues to be a thoroughly discussed topic. This accusation of low wages may be true but it is within the laws concerning wage within the nation. The fault lies with the government and their law setting the minimum wage. Wal-Marts business strategy is also what any good business would do. The point of a business is to make a profit. "Human beings always want more, no matter how wealthy they become.it is this fact that guarantees that we will never run out of employment opportunities" (kirklin, 2006). This belief is what keeps our society running. Why would you hire one employee when another is willing to do the same thing for less? This belief is not only shared by Wal-Mart but also by other competitors. Wal-Mart shouldn't be criticized for their national wages just because everyone is not satisfied with the current law and what it offers as the minimum wage.
Wal-Mart isn't known very well among critics or even consumers for its positive effect on the community. Wal-Mart is trying to change this. Even the harshest critics of Wal-Mart need to be reminded of the benefit Wal-Mart does for the communities it operates in. In fact, "In the U.S., Wal-Mart gave more than $378 million in cash and in-kind gifts, up from 296 million in 2007" (CSR news, 2009). They are incorporating more community involvement from education to charity so as to become more involved. The service they provide to the local community they operate in cannot be forgotten. They lower the prices of products allowing for consumers, especially those of lower wage, to afford their products. These steps that are being taken are steps in the right direction so as to promote a better image.
The reputation of Wal-Mart is poor and continues to go worsen due to the large number of critics. To change this negativity, Wal-Mart is making changes. "The company has increased the number of local U.S. farmers that supply its stores by 50 percent in the past two years" (Novak, 2008). They are trying to incorporate local produce, stimulating the economy and providing consumers with lower prices. This approach is beneficial to everyone. The consumer is able to buy cheaper, fresher produce and local farmers are able to sell their produce to a big corporation.
Along with buying local, Wal-Mart is also branching out. Wal-Mart Marketplaces are beginning to become more common and they supply only food like other grocery stores. They are being started in Arizona and are expected to grow.
This is just another way in which Wal-mart is entering the market and becoming more specific. They are taking steps to broaden their products and services to the customer. Whether through the marketplace or just increasing the amount of food within supercenters, they are taking steps to enlarge their market and profit opportunities. (Duprey, 2008).
"Wal-Mart might well be both America's most admired and most hated company" (Bianco & Zellner, 2003). Due to the criticisms Wal-Marts reputation is on a downward spiral. This bad reputation has been acquired due to constant attacks against Wal-Mart and its effectiveness. In the end, these criticisms made Wal-Mart more effective. They took the criticisms to heart and improved their image. Sam Walton "had been a small-town merchant. And he had seen the future. He had chosen to eat rather than be eaten" (Huey, 1998). He understood and took advantage of the future by putting the consumer first and supplying the lowest prices. Hopefully with the availability of accurate information regarding their true operations, Wal-Mart can begin to acquire an improved reputation that it both needs and deserves.
