Mc Coy 1
Amelia Mc Coy
Kacie Beagen
22 April 2009
ENG 105
Women shouldn't be paid more in sports
Women's sports have become more popular over the past ten years. Throughout the history of women's sports there has been a controversy about their salaries. Many people believe that women should be paid more in professional sport while other people think that they shouldn't be paid more because they deserve to be paid equally, however other people believe that women shouldn't be paid more in sports because they don't bring in as much of revenue as male athletes. Women shouldn't be paid more in professional sports; they should just have to work toward increasing their salaries.
Female sports don't bring in enough revenue to raise salaries. Women's sporting events have low attendance, therefore not bringing in large amounts of revenue to support their salaries. "In 2006, the average WNBA attendance at a game was 7,746, which combined for a total of 1,779,366" (Women's Sports Org.). One reason why attendance to games or events is so low is because the promoting is low. Media coverage is one of the main ways to attracting large crowds to games or events. The larger the crowds the more revenue is produced which makes the salaries increase. Less attendance at games or events means lower revenue made which results in low salaries for female athletes.
Television ratings have increased over the past few years for women's sports. The first WNBA televised game was a success, for it being the first women's basketball game on television "The opening game of the WNBA, televised on NBC June 21, 1997, drew a 3. 7 television rating and a crowd of 11,551 to the arena as the New York Liberty defeated the Los Angeles Sparks" (Dure, Beau). Other sports began to become televised as well "The Women's Professional Billiards Association (WPBA) had 10 tournaments televised on ESPN in 2006. In addition, between 1,000 and 1,200 fans attend each tournament" (Women's Sports Org.). More people are starting to watch women sports which will increase their salaries greatly. However, until women's sports television ratings match up to men's sports television ratings, female athletes salaries shouldn't be equal to male athlete's salaries.
Women are paid by their performance and exceeding female athletes receive better pay. Forbes magazine provided a list of the top paid female athletes and their salaries and the better their performance was the higher pay they received. Salaries increase due to better performance and winning games or tournaments, "The 2006-2007 salary cap for NBA teams was set at $53. 135 million, an increase of $3. 6 million from 2005-2006. The 2006 salary cap for WNBA was set at $700,000, an increase of only $27,000 from the previous season". (Women's Sports Org.) The increase for WNBA was so low because they didn't attract the same size crowds as the NBA did in the previous season. Another reason why is because the WNBA was televised as often as the NBA. Women in sports shouldn't be paid more just because there is a large gap between the men's and women's salaries. Women are paid equally when their salaries are measured next to their performance.
Working hard at a sport as a female will pay off in the end, earning a respectable salary. "A few key WNBA players make six-figure salaries because they work year-round participating in the process of marketing the WNBA"(Women's Sports Org.) Females in the sports industry are capable of making the same as males in the sports industry; they just have to work hard to earn it. Studies show that female sports are starting to become more popular and bring in revenue, "Average attendance for the 2006 finals of the WNBA was up 28% compared to a year prior (14,587 vs. 11,419 in 2005), while average attendance for the playoffs overall increased by 16% (9,738 vs. 8,397 in 2005). The historic Game 5 of the season on September 9 featured a sellout crowd of 19,671 at Joe Louis Arena" (Women's Sports Org.). The WNBA has always shown an increase in salaries each year, "The 2006 salary cap for WNBA was set at $700,000, an increase of only $27,000 from the previous season." (Ask men). This shows that women sports are increasing gradually over time and will reach a respectable amount one day. Women in sports shouldn't be paid more because they are slowly coming up in the sports world, working their way towards a better paid sport.
Womens sports haven't fully developed yet like men sports have. Since female sports are relatively new, compared to male sports, they have to go through the same cycle men went through. Male athletes were considered to be under paid in the early years of sports and have worked their way up to where they are now (ESPN). Women have to go through the same cycle of evolution as male athletes did. Eventually female athletes will reach the level male athletes have reached, but they will never be even because as females athletes move forward so will male athletes. This cycle is never ending there is always room to increase and improve as athletes.
Zach Mc Cabe had this to say when interviewed, "I believe that women shouldn't be paid more just because they are not equal with men." he also stated ". women will eventually have a better salary, but it may take awhile just like it did for men's salaries to improve"(Personal Interview). Many people agree with Zach's position on women's salaries. Shayne Garner had this to say about women's salaries, "I believe that women will reach a point of satisfaction sometime in the near future." (Personal Interview). When asked if it was fair that there was such a big difference between male and female sports, Shayne stated "I believe that it is fair that the gap is large because women sport is relatively new an upcoming in the sports world. They can't be expected to be paid millions on the first day" (Personal Interview). Since women are relatively new to the sports world they will have to grow and prosper to improve their salaries just like male athletes have since the beginning of sports.
The difference between male and female sports salaries is big but the reason is because of popularity. Women have gained popularity over the years "The popularity of women's philanthropic funds has grown significantly since 1979. In 1999, 95 women's funds existed-as opposed to the five that existed in 1979" (Women's Sport's Org.). Women are gaining funds and help to improve in the sports world. Endorsements also have a big importance in the sports world, "A 2000 study showed that women are 22% more likely to buy a product endorsed by female athletes, 1% are less likely to purchase the product and 74% say athlete endorsements have no impact on their purchasing decisions" (ESPN). Women who have endorsements are more likely to have a large salary compared to women who don't have any endorsements. The majority of the sports world agree in supporting women sports improvement, "In 1999, 85% of females and 47% of males felt it was very important for corporations to sponsor/support women's sports" (Women's Sport's Org.). Many people are dedicated to improving the women's sports world in a productive way rather than just increasing salaries.
Women in the sports world aren't always athletes there is women coaches too. Coaching job for females started out low but is increasing greatly, "The worst year for the representation of female coaches as coaches of women's teams on record was 2006. Only 42.4% of women's teams are led by a female head coach" (ESPN). Today there are more than 60% female coaches coaching female sports. Some women are happy where they are and how much they are being paid, "In 2000, 68% of female assistant coaches did not want to become head coaches because they liked their current team or situation." Many female coaches enjoy their job due to salaries, "During the 2003-2004 school-year, for Division I, average school spending for women's head coaching salaries was $561,800." That was considered a large salary for those years especially being a female coach. The NCAA executive community supports the movement of females in the sports world and helping them earn a better salary, "In 2007, three (18.8%) of the 16 NCAA Executive Committee members are women. In 2001, 26.7% of senior-level positions at the NCAA headquarters were filled by women. Seven (30.4%) out of 23 association-wide committees were chaired by women. Lenti Ponsetto is the first woman to head the championships/competition cabinet" (Women's Sports Org.). There are many opportunities for female athletes in the sports world to make a change, if they want to raise salaries they have chance to become head coaches and other high paying jobs that can change this issue.
The counter argument to this is that women should be paid more in sports. Some people believe that they should just be equally paid because there is such a huge gap between male and female athletes, "The 1999-2000 average NBA (National Basketball Association) salary rose to $3. 17 million per player, while the average WNBA (Women's National Basketball Association) salary for the same season was $55,000, making the NBA average 58 times higher than the WNBA's". The NBA has been around longer than the WNBA and has produced more revenue, therefore justifying the salary raises during those years. There is an argument against this ". women athletes just have to reach the level male athletes have obtained, female sports just started a while after male sports did." (Women's Sports Org.). Many people believe that female athletes are greatly under paid, when actually they are being paid the right amount. They haven't been around long enough to figure out how much exactly female athletes should be paid but female athletes are working toward improving their salaries greatly. Female athletes will go through an evolution within their sports to increase their salaries. Women should have to work towards increasing their salaries to the amount that they are satisfied with.
Sports are a very controversial issue today. There are many different issues dealing with men athletes compared to women athletes. Women should work towards having a larger salary. Eventually their salaries will be accepted in the sports world. Women should work towards attracting big crowds and pulling in more revenue to help increase their pay. Female athletes are new to the sports world and being accepted in to it quickly. The Women's sports world is building up and increasing it revenue and popularity. Women athletes should have to work towards earning similar salaries when compared to men athletes.
