Samuel Dohm
English 101
Hannah Pralle
3-29-2009
Abortion: A matter of life or death
Abortion has been one of the most controversial issues facing our nation since 1973 ("Ethics of Abortion" 1993). The question at hand is whether or not a woman should be able to have the choice whether they want to terminate their pregnancy or not; or if it should be the governments choice to make this action illegal. Some believe that it is a woman's right to choose to have an abortion and some believe the exact opposite, many believe that if a woman has been raped, a victim of incest, or if the woman's life is in danger, abortion should be performed. Abortion can be performed for many reasons, the main reason being if a women's health is at risk . Some women think that this is not abuse of abortion, that it is a valid form of birth control. The fight between pro-life and pro-choice has been a hard fought one. I believe women should be entitled to the baby in which they created. Every one has there own opinion. What will yours be?
Forty-nine percent of pregnancies among American women that are unintended, half of these are terminated by an abortion. Each year, two out of every one hundred women aged fifteen to forty-four have an abortion, forty-eight percent of them have had at least one previous abortion and sixty-one percent have had a previous birth. This simply means that these women understand the joy of a baby being born, and still choose to take away their
privilege to live ("Just Facts"). They have had a child before and know the happiness of seeing
their own healthy child in their arms for the first time. Why then, when they know they
are creating new life inside of them, do they choose to deprive their child the right to live and
experience everything life has to offer. They willingly decide to kill that child, certainly for their own benefit, or to remove a burden through their life.
Pregnancy from rape or incest is extremely rare("Abortion Statistics"). Yes we must approach a victim of these crimes with compassion; but where do we draw the line between their rights and the rights between their unborn child. These women have been through a horrible experience and could be traumatized for the rest of their lives. Why put them through another traumatizing experience, which is abortion? I agree it would be tough to carry a man's baby who committed these crimes' baby for 9 months, but it is a person and regardless of who the father is they deserve the right to live and experience life for themselves.
Why not adoption? Sure you have to go through the 9 months of pregnancy, weight gain, stares, and bad eating habits, but is it really worth going through an abortion and knowing/thinking about this your entire life. You be the judge of that. A person should become responsible, mature, and emotionally stable before they even consider putting themselves in a position where parenthood could potentially become an issue. When a person becomes a parent, whether a mother or father, that begins at the moment of conception (Gargaro). I believe at that moment, a person becomes responsible for the well being of the child or children as such. Adoption can also be a tough thing to go through, knowing that the baby is yours but not being able to watch it grow. At least the baby is alive and living a life it never would have if it were to be killed before birth! Many parents that go through adoptions might not raise the kid themselves but do in fact meet there kids and are able to have an influence on their lives. Adoption should be a common ground for both pro-life and pro-abortion peoples, but sadly it's not.
I think you get the point. Abortion should be the last option for any couple that has conceived an unwanted child. A child that has been lucky enough to be created and be brought into this world has the right to join us, and try to make something of their life. There are a lot of couples out there that don't have the privilege to make a child. The next best thing is to adopt one and love it like it is their own. Life, god's greatest gift to earth.
