Willis | 15
Paper Four:
Viewpoint Paper
Ryan Willis
English 105, Semester 2, MTWTH 11: 30
April, 6th 2009
Is the issuance of psychological medication to children a beneficial and in fact necessary service to society, or in actuality poisoning the minds of our future?
As a parent, your greatest hope is the illness-free growth of your child, especially in regards to their mental and psychological development. Consequently, parents are plunged into the icy depths of fervid paranoia if any problems arise. Growing up ensconced in the age of modern medicine does not help either if we allow ourselves to wander aimlessly into the attractively lain trap of psychopharmacology. So when your child's third grade teacher approaches you with the statement that your son or daughter is being disruptive in class and has a difficult time paying attention, your reaction may be one of fear. Even though your child may in actuality be an extremely gifted, precocious child and their learning style has become kinetic as the student becomes bored with the pace of the teaching. Here is an example portraying the overwhelming prevalence of these very mistakes that get made every single day nationwide. "A study conducted at a high-flow referral center for child behavior and development in St. Louis revealed that more than 30 percent of the children referred for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder did not meet the diagnostic criteria for the problem. Nonetheless, 20 percent of the non-criteria group were already under treatment with Ritalin or similar drugs." (Haber, 2000) These percentages appear shocking and rightfully so; this quote should give you a better grasp on what is going on in our country right under our noses.
But then when a problem arises instead of communicating with the child or taking him to a therapist to discuss the underlying issues that the child might be going through thus getting to know the individual on a personal level and not on one based pure and cold diagnostic criteria. Parents may steer away from the road less traveled and instead gratefully hop on the freeway succumbing to our society's preferred method for assuaging this dilemma. The saddest aspect of this fact is that these parents often do this with honest naivete, placing their children into the nurturing hands of doctors, some of whom are unreservedly exuberant about dipping into the psychoactive pharmacopoeia to ladle up a cocktail of behavior-modification drugs that, while imposing a short-term placidity, may ultimately leave the child with a scrambled mess of short circuiting synapses far more serious than they had to begin with. A student, who struggles academically and may simply be a slow learner, could easily be labeled incorrectly as having a behavior disorder by a psychiatrist. The doctor will then, after identifying symptoms of a psychological disorder that appear to be prevalent in the patient, prescribe a medication based on a psychiatrist's no more than cursory examination of the child, who deems the medication to be necessary for the successful function of that child's life. If that assertion were incorrect and the patient had adverse side effects, then he would be subjected to another dose of drugs to counter the side effects, and if this initial assessment were in fact incorrect than those new drugs would produce side effects as well, and in order to satiate the patients now psychopharmacological coma, new drugs would arise to abate the effects that in many cases supersede the severity of the beginning symptoms. And we stand idly by as we dice up the future of our nation to grow up simmering in an unrelenting stew of chemical soup. This next example is on the extreme end of the spectrum for misdiagnoses made and shows what this girl's parents subjected her to without knowing they were doing anything wrong.
"Describes a 10-yr-old female admitted to a psychiatry inpatient unit with the provisional diagnosis of bipolar I disorder (BD), manic with psychotic features. Prior to admission unsuccessful attempts at treatment had included the use of Sertraline, Methylphenidate, Valproic acid, Thioridazine, Perphennazine, and Lorazepam. After an extensive review... discontinued the medications . because the symptoms were not due to BD or a psychotic disorder at all (Preda, 1998)." This case is especially terrifying to think about if one so chooses to relate it to their own children and dwell on the notion of that being your daughter suffering from and for something that she never had in the first place.
I hypothesize that anti-psychotic medication given to children is causal to a vastly more negative impact than a positive one. In spite of this widely spread hypothesis, the quota given by the DEA for anti-psychotic pharmaceuticals in recent years has continued to proliferate six-fold up to the present day. Why is this? The answer which the dominant percentage of parents arrive at is disturbingly simple, their child's behavior has been deemed deviant by society. So medicate them. I can vouch for the following quote from personal experience as I myself have been given one antipsychotic medication and then because of the lack of its efficacy I was soon provided a supplemental medication to increase the effects that the first drug was not providing. "Antipsychotic polytherapy-specifically, concurrent treatment with two or more antipsychotic agents-has been encountered recently among 41% of psychiatric patients receiving at least one antipsychotic (Centorrino, 2005)." This number is shocking but very true and the statistic should be perceived as a very serious problem indeed because of the lackadaisical methods used by psychiatrists.
In doing this we conform, and in turn relinquish our children's individuality as the drugs swiftly overrule their psyche, whisking the fragile brain matter into a consistency comparable to pudding. With the drugs efficaciously creating a dependence on them, like a parasite, the pharmaceutical companies and in fact the irrevocably trusted psychiatrist who sentenced your child to this tomb of reliance, continues to collect their dividends at your expense.
Entrepreneurialism more than often overcomes logic however. And this epidemic is no exception. The symptoms of Attention Deficit Hyper Disorder and Bipolar Disorder may be present in more than thirty other disorders, ranging from problems with the sensory systems, mental illness, or scholastic, psychosocial, and medical problems. With that stated we are able to see how easily a misdiagnosis can occur. However this simple mistake can have catastrophic and highly complex consequences. "When medications are used in proper doses for the appropriate disorder, they produce dramatic benefits. Serious side effects occur when the wrong problem is diagnosed or medication is used in inappropriate amounts. For those in the latter group, the consequences may be disastrous and even fatal" (Haber, 2000).
For example if an adolescent has just undergone a divorce and endured grueling family conflict, this mental and emotional stress will carry out into both social behavior and academic success. If a teacher were to see this behavior and claim that the student is depressed and report it as chronic depression, resulting in his evaluation of a psychiatrist, this would be the most harmful method possible of helping this child. We are humans and healthy humans naturally feel emotions such as anger, fear, sadness, grief, jealousy etc. and to label an individual with the serious disease of depression for simply purveying natural human feelings is nothing less than destructive. Sadly these occurrences are in no way a rarity and are creeping towards becoming the predominant situation with children prescribed to psychological medication. In order for a successful diagnosis of a patient to be made, quantitative identification of the exact problems causing the child difficulty in the home, school, and play environments must be made. The appropriate measurements of the prescribed drug and clinical tracking from the psychiatrist must be made as well to ensure that the child does not need an increase or decrease in the amount of drug he or she needs to be taking. "When a parent tells Rosemond that his or her child has been diagnosed as "having" (ADD, ADHD, ODD, COBD), Rosemond asks, "And what did the diagnosing therapist tell you caused your child's problems?" The words vary, but the answer does not: genes. This contention--that dysfunctional behavior is inherited--is unproven. Worse, no scientific evidence supports it. Although therapists continue to make claims about the genetic component of ADHD as if they are established and incontrovertible, they are nothing more than speculation (Rosemond, 2005)." An atrocious and tear inducing event happened last night at Northern Arizona University that has personally shaken my life. A student had his life taken from him because of the misuse of Aderall, a brand-name pharmaceutical psychostimulant. This particular medicine is used primarily to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. If anyone were to underestimate the severity of the misuse or misdiagnosis psychological medication can have, I urge you to reflect on this heart-wrenching example and grasp the concept of the pain the parents of this young man are feeling. They trusted a psychiatrist who in turn provided a medication to a child who may or may not have had a mental issue serious enough to deem it responsible, let alone necessary for him to obtain it. And this mistake took a life.
This event, unlike the speculation and theoretical efficacy of these drugs which are enshrouded by a veil of hypothetical here-say, is incontrovertible truth. Far more truth than is necessary to bring out the defibrillators and shock our society into the realization of what is happening in our very own homes.
It is my belief that the misdiagnosis of ADHD is caused by a conjunction of inadequate diagnoses, other disorders or factors which are mistaken for ADHD, and the complete subjectivity of the diagnostic criteria.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common childhood disorders and can continue through adolescence and adulthood. Symptoms include difficulty staying focused and paying attention, difficulty controlling behavior, and hyperactivity (over-activity). Inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity are the key behaviors which determine a diagnosis of ADHD. Unfortunately for the diagnosing party it is completely normal for children to exude the very healthy emotions and actions of being inattentive, hyperactive, or impulsive. However for children whom are truly afflicted with the disorder of ADHD, these behaviors are much more severe and occur quite frequently.
As a guideline, in order to be diagnosed with the disorder, a child must have symptoms for no less than 6 months and to a level that is markedly greater than children within his/her cohort. The reason behind requiring a time limit for the symptoms is because mental disorders can be and are often seasonal i.e. seasonal affective disorder which is a mood disorder in which people who have had absolutely normal mental health throughout most of the year experience severe depressive symptoms throughout the winter months. Some parents see signs of inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity in their toddler long before the child enters school. The child may lose interest in playing a game or watching a TV show, or may run around completely out of control. But because children mature at different rates and are very different in personality, temperament, and energy levels, it's useful to get an expert's opinion of whether the behavior is appropriate for the child's age. Parents can ask their child's pediatrician, or a child psychologist or psychiatrist, to assess whether their toddler has an attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or is, more likely at this age, just immature or unusually exuberant. However, there is no objective laboratory test (urine, blood, x-ray, or psychological analysis) that can prove whether or not a person has ADHD. In addition, some symptoms of ADHD can be easily confused, even by mental health professionals, with the routine actions of children (AAP, 2004).
Between 1995 and 2000 the overall use of Ritalin and other stimulant drugs for Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder has increased by 700% (Haber 3-4). Even the diagnosis of this disorder has become much more common. ADHD is the most common neurobehavioral disorder in children, and one of the most common public health problems in children between 6 and 12 years old (Haber 3-4). According to a study by the American Academy of Pediatrics, about 3-5% of children have had ADHD constantly since about 1940; however in the vast majority of schools, about 15% of students take ADHD medications every day (Haber 1). This means that twice as many people who don't have ADHD are taking medications than people who do have it. How is this possible you might ask? The misdiagnosis of ADHD can be caused by many different things. A similar disorder can be mistaken for it, or it could be correctly diagnosed as ADHD but fail to recognize another underlying disorder and often several. This, mixed with the subjectivity of the diagnostic criteria makes it very easy to misdiagnose indeed.
A horrifying question to ask is ADHD even an actually disorder? NIMH psychiatrist Peter Jensen stated in 1996, "The National Institutes of Mental Health does not have an official position on whether or not ADHD is a neurobiological disorder" (NIMH, 2006). One fact that you must consider when thinking about whether or not ADHD and ADD are actual conditions, is that the epidemic appears to be confined to North America. The use of Ritalin and similar prescriptions (Adderall) is overwhelmingly concentrated in the United States and Canada. In fact, these two countries account for 96 percent of their use throughout the world, and children in the U.S. have been estimated to be from 10 to 50 times more likely to be labeled as having ADD than their counterparts in Britain or France. In American public schools, about 10 percent of all children in grades K-12 carry and are treated for a diagnosis of a disease that has not up to this date been given any definitive evidence to its authenticity as a neurobiological disorder.
One group of children, and these children in my opinion are both the most affected and most unknown as well, are the children in our nation whom are gifted with superior intelligence. Many gifted and talented children (and adults) are being misdiagnosed by psychologists, psychiatrists, pediatricians, and other health care professionals. The most common misdiagnoses are ADHD, OD (Oppositional Defiant Disorder), OCD, and mood disorders (Webb, 2004). These common misdiagnoses stem from ignorance among professionals about specific social and emotional characteristics of gifted children which are then mistakenly assumed by these professionals to be signs of pathology. Despite prevalent myths to the contrary, gifted children and adults are at particular psychological risk due to both internal characteristics and situational factors. These internal and situational factors can lead to interpersonal and psychological difficulties for gifted children, and subsequently to misdiagnoses and inadequate treatment (Webb, 2004).
It is common for diagnosticians to use behavior checklists when investigating the possibility of ADHD. When these checklists are relied upon, rather than used as one piece of evidence among other sources, the possibility of confusing ADHD for giftedness increases (Baum, 2002). Behavior checklists address only the expressions of behavior instead of the causes of behavior. For example, Piechowski(1984) argued that children who are gifted may possess "overexcitabilities" in five areas: Psychomotor, sensual, intellectual, imaginational, and emotional. Children who are gifted are said to often have intense expressions in these domains and these expressions are thought to indicate advanced development. Psychomotor over excitability is indicated by behaviors such as rapid speech, impulsive actions. This over excitability of the "gifted child" could easily be labeled as "hyperactive" by the observer uninformed of some gifted children's tendencies. The gifted child expressing imaginational over excitability through daydreaming may look inattentive but could be using this uninterrupted time to think creatively. Looking at this information should illuminate the dangers that we are subjecting the brightest youth in our nation to.
As Baum and Olenchak (2002) stated, "There is little doubt that in many cases, students of high ability are being cured of their giftedness in an exchange for controlled, compliant behavior". The consequence of misdiagnosis to the well being of the individual child is obvious, but we must also consider the broader consequence of potential loss of human capital. On the other hand, missing the diagnosis of ADHD in gifted children who truly experience the disorder is also deleterious. ADHD is a serious medical condition that can incapacitate a person from functioning at his or her fullest potential. Effective treatment options exist, but a correct diagnosis must first be given. Although, as is clear from my statements above, the diagnosis of ADHD, giftedness, or both can be a difficult one to make, accuracy in diagnosis is paramount. Misdiagnosis has potentially harmful consequences. Guenther (1995) argued that if a child's behaviors are construed as being negative, it is unlikely that the child will be seen as gifted. Therefore, once the ADHD diagnosis is placed on the child, it may be very difficult to perceive his or her behavior any other way but within that framework.
The long-term use of the drugs that are routinely prescribed (Ritalin, Adderall, Concerta, Dexedrine etc.) has been proven in case study after case study to be the main cause to a plethora of physiological and psychological maladies. Here is a list of the common physical side effects given on the inside information pamphlet of Ritalin and Adderall: Decreased appetite, problems getting to sleep, problems staying asleep, anxious or fearful, irritable, headache, stomachache, tics (e.g., twitches, jerks, blinks, squints), vocal tics (e.g., throat clearing, sniffing, grunting), skin rash, psychosis (irrational thinking, hallucinations, extreme anxiety or inappropriateness), rebound effect as drug wears off: increased symptoms, hyperactivity and/or depression.
Many children taking Ritalin will develop involuntary muscle contractions and limb movements known as tics, or dyskinesia. In addition to all the potentially damaging effects of Ritalin one has to factor in the reality that it doesn't even work in the first place. Yes, it does make some children better behaved at certain times. But there are absolutely no studies to this day that show improved academic performance or social behavior over the long term. What has been shown over the long term is that the side effects can become quite serious. Most people assume that drugs are proven safe before they are marketed. But this is not always the case, especially when you consider the long-term picture. Science knows very little about the long-term effects of medicating children. In effect, children have been guinea pigs (Swanson, 1993). The results of this grand experiment are only now becoming evident, and sometimes the consequences are deadly (Swanson, 1993).
The correct diagnosis of ADHD should be a lengthy and arduous task requiring the compiled efforts of the diagnosing physician, parents, teachers, the child themselves, and even peers. If the correct procedure is not followed through with and lax medical care is given, extremely serious consequences will indubitably ensue. If the strict guidelines set forth by agencies such as American Academy of Pediatrics and American Psychiatric Association, actions as simple as giving the patient the care and treatment that is expected by our doctors, the misdiagnosis of ADHD would be severely reduced and consequently the distribution of the stimulant drugs that come hand-in-hand with the diagnosis. We as a nation have created a disease and now must deal with the subsequent repercussions. Now educated and hopefully inspired, the first step towards fixing the mess we have created is to do just that: Take a confident step forward and one step at a time we will save the youth of our nation's precious minds.
The following are testimonials and stories from parents and family affected by ADHD medications and other psychotropic pills dealt out to our adolescents like skittles.
Consider the case of Stephanie Hall, a first grader placed on Ritalin because her teacher felt she was "just a little bit too antsy," according to her mother. "[The teacher] suggested that Stephanie go for testing, so we went the route of a neurologist who said she could throw a ball and read a book and a psychologist who said she had average intelligence but, yes, she was a little easily distracted. So now she qualifies to be medicated." When she turned 12, the prescription was increased; that very day, Stephanie died from cardiac arrest in her sleep. Says her mom, "Her death was caused by cardiac arrhythmia with no family history of any type of heart problem whatsoever, and she died a day after her medicine had been increased. It kind of adds up." Gary Null interview with Janet Hall, Feb.13, 2001.
In a more publicized story, Matthew Smith, a 14-year-old from Michigan, had also, like Stephanie Hall, been taking Ritalin from the time he was in first grade. After eight years of ingesting the drug daily, Matthew suddenly became pulseless and died while riding his scooter. An autopsy performed by the county medical examiner, a Dr. Dragovic, found that Matthew's heart muscle was diffusely replaced with scar tissue, as were the muscular walls of the coronary vessels. Much to the displeasure of the psychiatric and pharmaceutical industry, the doctor publicly stated that Matthew's death was undoubtedly due to heart damage akin to that regularly seen in deaths among amphetamine addicts, and that his death was clearly due to the Ritalin.
Yet another incident occurred in a psychiatric facility near San Antonio, Texas, where young Randy Steele was being restrained when he suddenly died. Randy was on several psychiatric drugs at the time. But his first psychiatric diagnosis, his entry into a life of psychiatry, had been ADHD, and his first drug was Dexedrine or dextroamphetamine. At death he had an enlarged heart.
My 16-year-old son, Jared, was having a little trouble in school. The teacher said that he was trying to self-medicate with alcohol. She suggested that we see a doctor and that he be put on one of the drugs for depression.
When we took Jared to the doctor to be diagnosed, the doctor spent about 15 minutes with us before deciding that he needed to be placed on an antidepressant drug. We told the doctor that we didn't want him taking any drugs like Prozac. He put Jared on 20 mg of Paxil, which he said was nothing like Prozac. In actuality it is. It's the same kind of drug, only stronger. The change in Jared's personality was immediate. The first day on the medication, he told me that he felt weird and jumpy. Jared's weird behavior continued. He became aggressive, where he was normally very quiet and shy. I didn't connect it with the Paxil but thought that Jared might be taking a street drug since his behavior was so bizarre. I guess we just don't want to believe that a prescribed pill would do something like this. Jared had a violent confrontation with a family friend. She had been married to my father at one time, and we spent a lot of time with her at family functions. He was pretty close to her, as they shared the same interests. My son stabbed her to death. He stabbed her 61 times. There was nothing in Jared's background or personality that would have given any indication that he had the capacity to commit such a brutal crime. No, that was not Jared. It was a totally different person. My son now resides in a state prison here in California, serving a life sentence without parole. He had never been in trouble before, had never been violent. His life is over. I realize that he took a life, but it never would have happened if he had never taken that drug.
My son started to exhibit behavior problems. He would say things to me like, "I'm not going to live past 25." "I have nothing to live for." "You don't know me." "This world is a terrible place." And he would also tell me, "It's too hard to be a Christian." About six months later, we took him to a doctor, and my son was diagnosed with severe depression. I was handed Zoloft pills and told that they would be safe. There would be no side effects. The medicine was even safe to take if the person were to use alcohol or combine the pills with another drug, I was told. The doctor also told us that it would take two weeks before we would see any difference in his behavior.
Five days later, the incident happened. My son shot and killed a woman during a robbery. It didn't make any sense because my son was, as the paper called him, the all-American kid. He was a great kid until a few months before the incident..
I don't think it's a coincidence that five days after [my son started] the medication the shooting occurred. My son had never been in such trouble for anything before this happened. I do think he had fought sometimes, as a lot of teenage boys do. But he had never done anything this horrendous.
After the arrest, a neurologist performed a lot of medical tests on Brian and told us that he was depressed, with a mild brain abnormality. He said that he had a bad reaction to the Zoloft, what they call akathisia, an inability to sit still that manifests as extreme agitation. He also became manic, violently insane. If you were to read about the side effects of these drugs, they have half a dozen listings of awful things that can happen from a bad reaction to the drug. That tells me that the drugs could have been responsible for what happened to Brian.
My son is not alone in how he reacted to this drug. I know of two other families that just experienced the same thing. Both children were 15-year-old boys. One boy, from Tennessee, shot and killed his mother, and then put the gun in his mouth and shot himself.. Another young man in Birmingham shot, stabbed, and buried his 17-year-old brother. Both of these boys were medicated at the time.. Today my son is in prison. For his crime, he was given life without parole."
Boseley, Sarah, "Happy drug Prozac can bring on impulse to suicide, study says," The Guardian (U.K.), May 22, 2000.
