Meagan Kerksieck
English 105
Holly Richards
Plan of Action for Yucca Mountain
Introduction
Let us give a big clap and say job well done to all, who took time to accomplish something, which is filled with great technology, and all the men's hard work for creating this establishment. A well built institution for all the waste to be located for a long period and never striking anyone's thoughts of it actually becoming a nuisance and be second guessed on how well it can hold everything inside. Now the idea of actually closing the institution because it might cause serious problems for Nevadans and U.S. citizens, I say let us give a warm welcome to our President for believing it is the best thing for everyone. First thought of in 1987 Yucca Mountain is one of the most popular nuclear sites to place all repositories and various nuclear wastes. Now new turns of events have occurred with Obama's contemplation on the project, bringing up the new dangers and fears upheld on the project are now put into action, factoring a debate. The new outcome may take a strong effect and possibly a different result on the country's nuclear problems as well as the citizens of Nevada and the U.S.
Background Information Before Yucca was even considered the perfect disposal site, the D.O.E (Department Of Energy) amongst other groups searched for a good and safe environment for the repository to sit in safe keeping. Scientists concluded, "The Committee is convinced that radioactive waste can be disposed of safely in a variety of ways and at a large number of sites in the United States" (National Academy, Inhofe). This concludes short term wastes were not in effect and the after math of how the short term deposit sites would later destroy communities and cause havoc for scientists, and governments. In 1982, Congress decided to start researching the best methods to safely store the nation's highly-radioactive waste for a long-term basis. Creating the Nuclear Waste Policy Act in '82, Congress assigned the primary responsibility of this act to the Department of Energy. Having been talked about two years prior, in 1987 Yucca Mountain would be top gun for the job and house all nuclear waste. In 2008, the DOE submitted the license application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to have Yucca Mountain reviewed and decided upon whether the project is a suitable and a safe site to house the country's nuclear waste. The DOE chose Yucca Mountain as a possible site for the long-term nuclear waste repository because of the geological and security factors involved.
Geological Considerations
Located in Nye County isolated and very remote, positioned in the northwest part of the state 90 miles out of Las Vegas, Nevada, Yucca Mountain is a very dry and arid climate. The nearest population is to be found about 15 miles away from the Yucca Mountain project site, in Armargosa Valley, with the next biggest population city, Las Vegas. The entrance into and around the site is enclosed within a 1,300 sq mile radius perimeter above-ground, it is also restricted, located on federal land, and closed off to citizens (U.S. DOE).
The average rainfall is about 7. 5 inches per year which causes little precipitation limiting the amount of water that is able to infiltrate the surface. It actually grooving through the 1,000 feet of rock and meeting with the tunnels and the waste. Sitting acutely 1,000 feet or more above the water table, scientists and the D.O.E. are not too concerned for the waste seeping into the crack of the rocks. However the some scientific and individuals from the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, believe the appearance of water will cause the canisters of waste, become corroded and have radiation highly dangerous escape seep into water supplies, spreading into large areas (Yucca Mountain).
Other the other hand work and geological features has the rocks and site leveled, the host rock is fractured, with these fractures present the main path ways for water and radionuclide transport through. The water flows through the fractures, dissolved radionuclides will diffuse out the pores of the rocks. The possibility of the waste being absorbed and then introduced to the absorbing minerals which would then expose water and the atmosphere to the toxins is a low possibility and not a worry issue.
Safety Considerations
Presently, the nuclear waste is stored above ground, in temporary facilities all across the country. This radioactive material is stored in cooling pools and dry casks, which are designed for short life spans. The energy needed to use and maintain these facilities require that they be located near water, such as rivers, lakes, and seacoasts, presenting the possible danger of the radioactive material leaking into the water.
In addition, with most of these temporary facilities being located near water, it also means that they are also located near people, posing a danger of radioactive expulsion to nearby citizens. "In all, more than 161 million Americans reside within 75 miles of where spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste are stored, closer than the residents of Las Vegas are to Yucca Mountain" (U.S. DOE). With the construction of the long-term repository in Yucca Mountain, the temporary facilities would be replaced and the nuclear waste would no longer be stored above-ground, but would be located about 1,000 miles underground.
During the board of Senate Hearings more than enough impute about Yucca Mountain and the of it being a solid ground for all the waste is a big toss up for most witnesses. Multiple witnesses explained that DOE spending on nuclear fuel is "safe for 50 to 100 years in temporary storage at existing (NRC) Nuclear Regulatory Commission- approved sites" (Yucca Mountain). During the meeting Richard Meserve (NRC Chairman) stated the commissions have no word on who is to say whether permanent placing for the nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain is a green or red light. Another chairman Jerrod Cohon, believes the site is "weak to moderate" yet he has not got any utterance of the site not being technological or scientifically unstable, to scratch out the repository site. "It is not possible to avoid all technical uncertainty, at Yucca Mountain or any other site" his concern, "It is up to the policymakers to decide how much uncertainty is acceptable."
Waste Accumulation Considerations
"United States currently has about 47,500 metric tons of spent nuclear fuel and is currently processing over a hundred million gallons of liquid high level radioactive waste"
(U.S DOE). In addition the amount of spent fuel is increasing at the rate of two thousand tons a year, and is currently being stored at the temporary facilities above ground. It is estimated that by 2040 the U.S. could generate about a hundred and eight thousand metric tons of spent nuclear fuel. There are no other current possible proposed sites or options, all this nuclear waste will continue increasing and being stored above ground, which is why we believe that the Yucca Mountain project is needed. With temporary facilities being above ground, near populated areas, and with the growing amount of nuclear waste accumulating every year, the facilities are more vulnerable to terrorist attacks and incidents that may increase the danger of people being exposed to the hazardous material. Supporting the need and importance of the Yucca Mountain project, 2008 Secretary of Energy Spenser Abraham, stated, "We need to find a permanent storage facility so that communities that have the waste building up can get rid of it. And without doing that, we'll have not only environmental challenges, but we, I think it will undermine our energy security and our national security" (Leung).
Transportation Considerations
Although, tons of nuclear waste maybe be accumulating all over the country, many feel that the transportation of this waste by trucks and trains is too big of a danger to take. Mayor Oscar Goodman, of Las Vegas, stated: "If it comes by rail, the only rail goes right through the heart of my city. And I guarantee you one thing: as long as I'm the mayor. It ain't comin' through." (Leung). Along with Mayor Goodman, many other people feel that the transportation of so much nuclear waste is not safe. As of now, transportation of nuclear waste is occurring, but the amounts transported are small and only have to be transported to the nearest facility in that area, and even though a few accidents have occurred, there have not been any devastating or major life-threatening accidents.
The transportation of the country's nuclear waste to Yucca Mountain would be very different from these small transportations to the temporary facilities. The amount of nuclear waste that would be transported to Yucca Mountain would be in much greater amounts and would be traveling much greater distances than the small amounts currently being transported. Yucca Mountain's transportation of the waste would be coming in very large quantities, especially since the country will be transporting about 47,500 metric tons of nuclear waste. Even a small accident of this nuclear waste would have a very large and devastating impact.
In addition to the nuclear waste not only going by or through Las Vegas, the waste would also be going through many other major cities all across the country. Some examples of these cities would be Chicago, Buffalo, Salt Lake City, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Kansas City, St. Louis, Atlanta, and Nashville. By any means if shipments had to be made, the city that would be traveled through the most is Chicago, one out of every six shipments go through downtown Chicago, and if there were any incidents to occur, these cities could be at a great risk. (Leung)
Health and Environmental Considerations
Due to a large assumptions, from Nevadans, The Mayor and President Obama, health and environmental issues have been set a t a new level of fear for most. Many people in Nevada, including citizens and politicians such as Mayor Goodman of Las Vegas or Senator Harry Reid are on the opposing side, in hopes to end all work and anything being done to Yucca Mountain. Though what most people do not understand is that it has a big benefit to Les Vegas, Nevada with all money and sent to anything to fix it. However, the benefits it may provide, is said it may not outweigh the dangers and negative views or affects it may have if anything goes wrong.
What most fear are the radioactive waste and the technology handling the entire radioactivity. There is some reason to believe that the technology can and will do its job. However canisters and casks are not 100% guaranteed as safe. The main problems that are still being over come today is the cracking and leaking in the technical area and most citizens are taking into very deep consideration or not accepting on a light note. The thought of small or minimal amount of nuclear waste leaking from the canisters into the ground water could cause a catastrophic effect to the state and any person in the area exposing them to radioactivity.
Another thought in mind is the volcanic activity that rhythmic through the area, causing a side effect to the mountain and causing leakage or release nuclear fuel into the ground. Though there is a possibility of volcanic activity and then disturbing Yucca is about 1 and 70 million per year. The mountain is in an environment that is in certain conditions such as thick unsaturated zone with low rates of precipitation movement. Another lone fact is there has not been much change or none at all for millions of years (DOE).
Obama's Stance on Yucca Project
Since coming into office Obama, has already taken opposition against the Yucca Mountain project, and during his campaign stated that " Yucca Mountain has not been shown to be the best site based on science" (Associated Press). He has already proposed major budget cuts for the project in his determination to stop the project. He vowed he would save the country and any problem factors with it, so eliminating one of the best ideas we have in history, cutting workers there and removing all the waste at Yucca Mountain and closing it down great idea. Explain where we are going to put it all Obama? Where are we going to find a better suited repository? Obviously there are no other present propositions to safely store the nuclear waste in the long-term aspect, Obama believes that they can research and discover a better storage and safer way to place all the waste.
Conclusion
