Scherzer 1
Jake Scherzer
April 30th, 2009
Kacie Beagen
English 105
Violence in Video Games
Video games have become an institution in our culture today. Many feel that the increase in violent content has led to many children acting out and be more aggressive. The problem is that all studies that have been done have shown that there is a correlation but no causation showing that video games are not to be blamed for recent events such as the columbine shootings. This paper is not advocating violent content in video games but rather showing that the content is not the cause of violence.
In the most recent experiments on violence in video games the goal has been to find the short term effects leading to conclusions that can't be applied to most situations. The current model for experimentation usually deals with surveys before playing and after while playing the subject may be observed and in many cases they will be monitored to see their heart rate and skin temperature. After the subject usually between plays the game they will be observed in "free-time" to see whether they are more aggressive and hostile. In all experiments I have come across they have come to conclusions that change if any occurs is very small and cannot be linked to violence. In one of my sources I found that experiments that use the little change in aggression that occurs there is a difference cause by rewording trait aggression and the state of aggression.(2)
In a recent study the issue of trait aggression has come to light showing that many of the findings of previous experiments have been wrong in the sense that they didn't factor in the subject's previous aggression. When traits of aggression enter the equation a much more balanced view comes. The findings suddenly show that many of the previously aggressive kids were just slightly more aggressive almost to the point of not recognizing it. Many of the previously non-aggressive kids were found to show no difference in their aggression and hostility. This is due to their state of aggression previous to the experiment. Some results did show however that very few of the aggressive subjects had more of a change when exposed to violent video games (1).
Many experiments now used VR technology which is designed to immerse the subject in the game creating a more real gaming experience (7). The VR technology is virtual reality which creates the illusion that the subject is in the game (7). With this sort of gaming many expected the results to show much higher levels of aggression after playing. They found that even with this immersion technique that many of the results showed no higher levels of aggression and hostility (7). This is due to the fact that violent video games are not the cause of violent behavior and cannot be linked to any cases.
When subjects were shown violent TV shows they found many similar results to video games. The fact is that video games are not the only cause and that we have to look at the subjects themselves rather than what TV shows or video games they are watching. It is true that in the short term video games have been shown to slightly increase aggression but it has not been found why. This furthers the fact that in all aspects of this subject they have found causation which is a subtle link but no causation which would be cause for alarm.
After the Columbine shootings many felt that the video games and music that the kids were playing and listening to was the source of their violent acts. In the movie "Bowling for Columbine" artist Marilyn Manson was asked what he would say to the kids if given the chance and he said, "I wouldn't say anything... I would listen." This is the concept that many who feel that violent media content is the source of violent acts need to come to terms with. The content in these cases should not be what is looked at rather the kids lives and behaviors should be looked at. It's true that aggressive kids should probably not be open to violent content but the same could be said for the criminally insane. The problem is that in many of these cases the parents and peers of the kids are to blame for their behavior.
When children are taunted they find themselves angry. This is a crucial point in time for their parents to be there for them. When kids are taunted by peers and have no parents to turn to they may look for other forms of release. The kids that committed the horrible crime at Columbine had played violent video games but they took it upon themselves to steal their parent's guns and open fire on their school. Video games did not teach them to fire a gun they were just a hobby. The kid's aggressive traits and previous behavior is what counts.
In the shooting at columbine Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold were known players of the video game "Doom" and this was what many looked at when trying to make a case against video games (4). In April 2007 Seung-Hui Cho committed the Virginia-Tech Massacre in which he gunned down 32 students and professors sparking the debate of violent video games yet again (4). It was found later that Cho had little or no exposure to video games which removed the connection between violent video games and violence (4). Sulejman Talovic killed five people in a Utah mall and when investigated it was found that he had owned no video games (4). The point is that in these extreme cases of violence in which young males commit horrible atrocities there is no link between them and video games.
Many anti-video game advocates use violent video games as a reason in which young males commit violence. This is a horrible example considering how many young males actually play video games. It is found that no case or experiment can show a link between violent content in video games and violent acts occurring. If there was a link between violent acts and violent video games it would cause many more violent shootings to occur.
In a study done by two Australian psychiatrists to see the effects of violent content in video games they found very ambiguous results. Their conclusions found that there may be a link that violent content increases aggressive behavior but could not find enough evidence to make that assumption. They hypothesized that traits already found in their subjects were much more prevalent after playing these games (6). This led them to many of the same conclusions other studies experienced. Previous traits in individuals are what lead to aggressive and sometimes violent actions not the fact that they play video games.
In all of the experiments I found the main issue was that they dealt with the short-term effects of violent content in video games. No study has yet been done to see what the long-term effects of violent content in video games are. It is necessary to make a final conclusion on this debate for an experiment to be conducted that shows how long-term playing of violent video games has an effect on children. So far short-term studies have found nothing and furthermore nothing conclusive. The fact is that without such a study there will never be a link between violent content in video games and violent, aggressive and hostile behavior.
