Vargo 8
Erika Vargo
J. Belknap
Englsih 105
4/22/09
Theatre in the School Curriculum
"Work in drama helps both onstage and backstage participants to become resourceful, imaginative, dependable, cooperative, mature, self confident and rightfully proud of their achievements" (Faust). Theatre enhances the learning process creatively. Its birth in America is not completely known, however, Williamsburg, V.A. is thought to have the first built theatre house in America in 1716 (theatre). Theatre has been a part of American culture for over 200 years and slowly became a part of the educational system. Why should it be discarded and removed from the curriculum? Theatre alone contributes to the educational experience in a variety of ways and deserves to be a part of school curriculum during budget cuts.
This year of 2009, budget cuts are being made across the United States. School spending is being reduced around $2. 5 million (nysut). Schools are being forced to discard employees as well as programs that are not "beneficial" to the educational system. For example, Durango High School in Las Vegas was forced to cut programs out of their curriculum (lvrj). What program did they choose to discard of? Theatre. The decision has been made to cut the program from the curriculum, but offer it as a program after school (lvrj). Students, as well as graduates from such schools are outraged by the decision made by the educational board. Bob Geyer, the principal of Spring Valley High school, also in Las Vegas, stated, "In my 35 years in education, I have never seen or had to endure such draconian cuts in education. These will affect our children and our grandchildren for years and years to come," (lvrj). According to Cerina Vincent, an actress in Power Rangers, Two and a Half Men and Cabin Fever, theatre in school gave her the audacity and confidence to become what she is today (lvrj).
Why should theatre remain a part of the educational curriculum? According to "Involvement In The Arts and Human Development", students who participate in the arts, succeed at a higher percentage than those who do not participate (libproxy). This is because performance in theatre requires an individual to constantly put their mind to use intellectually. There are many aspects of theatre that contribute to the development of the mind. One aspect is language efficiency. By reading scripts from multiple plays, an individual may acquire not only the comprehension and meaning of words, but dialect and time period speech. This is a necessity when performing on a stage because one must enunciate in clear, loud tones to reach the audience in understanding. The basis of a play is the time period, which in many cases depicts unusual dialects and styles of speaking. This enables an individual to comprehend what they are reading in terms of jargin.
The second aspect that theatre contributes to an intellectual mind is Comprehension. "Involvement in the Arts and Human Development" states that students who participate in theatre have a higher reading proficiency than those who do not (libproxy). This research can be based on evidence such as the written quality of a play. When taking a close look at a script such as Shakespeare, it is evident that writing styles are not easily mistaken for our time period. It takes dissecting such a piece of work to understand and comprehend the meaning behind every written line. Students, or actors, are obligated to dissect each work to understand motivation and meaning. Due to this practice, students are able to understand difficult tests in educational areas such as math and science (aate). As well as literacy, comprehension and language efficiency, theatre develops quick thinking and action techniques.
In definition, improvisation is a performance given extempore without planning or preparation (dictionary). Improvisation is used as a method in theatre to create unplanned, on the spot thoughts and actions according to a situation. Improvisation is included in the educational aspect of theatre because it pertains not only to theatre, but school and everyday life as well. For example: during a business meeting when one is questioned or put on the spot, theatrical performance of improvisation may be used to have a successful meeting with a client (libproxy). However, an individual must have experience in improvisation to fully grasp the concept. Improvisation is a helpful tool to be used educationally as well as in the job force. In 1996, a camp that taught improvisation to children, named Kids Camp, took place to teach individuals how to use improvisation for their benefit (educational). A woman by the name of Peggy Eldred-Eserkaln helped create such a program to encourage children to use their talents educationally. This became not only a hit with children, but businesses as well (educational). Businesses began to realize the positive effects and quick thinking improvisation had on their employees (educational). If improvisation is taught it schools, wouldn't it expand the mind and teach individuals the art of "thinking on your toes?"
Memorization is one of the biggest factors in educational development. Memorization allows the brain to grasp information and encode it. In my own experience, memorizing lines and movements in a show gives my brain practice for memorizing information on a test or quiz. By practicing it, the art of memorizing information becomes easier to do. Theatre teaches acting methods to make memorizing an easier task. One such method is called the Stanislavsky method. The Stanislavsky method is the practice of putting oneself in someone else's shoes to create a comfortable and natural way to deliver lines (libproxy). This creates an easier system for memorization because the individual must find a center of focus. Then he or she must put aside personal thoughts and imagine the feelings and thoughts of the specific character they are portraying. This not only creates motivation, but makes the meaning of the lines clear and understandable. By understanding the text and placing oneself in the shoes of another, it is easier to memorize and naturally pull information out of the brain.
Theatre is not only an art form, but a history lesson. The amount of historical evidence in theatre shows yet another aspect of education taught in a theatre or drama setting. Playwrights usually create their plot based on a time period. Such a playwright is Oscar Wilde. Oscar Wilde wrote comedies that included a significant amount of irony to depict his feelings of the era in which he scripted (refine). By studying dialect and hidden messages in his various plays, an individual may receive adequate information about a specific era. For example, a character in one of his many plays, The Importance of Being Earnest, had a very ironic view on the Victorian society of London. She states, "Oh I love London Society! I think it has immensely improved. It is entirely composed now of beautiful idiots and brilliant lunatics. Just what a society should be." This statement shows how Oscar Wilde felt about his society. The whole play however, gives insight to London society and the extremities of the Victorian era.
Another example of a playwright who used emotion and time period significance, was William Shakespeare, one of the most famous play writes in history. Shakespeare's plays have been thoroughly dissected because of the medieval language, creative plots and significance and symbolism of his time era (screenonline). It is evident that his writings depict the feelings and emotions one felt during such a time. In one such play that Shakespeare wrote, known as Macbeth, he incorporates symbolism in the superstitions people had during the late 1500's and early 1600's (members). Shakespeare also incorporates meaning in every line of his writing (members). This is useful when depicting a time period as well as the goings on and events that happened during such a time. Finally, Shakespeare includes metaphors and similes in his writing to symbolize kings during his era (members). Theatre enhances the brain in intellectual ways but it also enhances self esteem and confidence.
"I regard the theatre as the greatest of all art forms, the most immediate way in which a human being can share with another the sense of what it is to be a human being" Oscar Wilde (brainy). Theatre makes personality and openness mandatory for the individual. It is important that an actor is comfortable and confident in oneself to succeed in theatre. Fortunately, theatre helps to form self confidence as well as self esteem. Lauren Mashburn, a nineteen year old graduated from Marana High School in Tucson, Arizona described her experience in high school theatre as, "the best experience I will remember from high school." She explained that theatre helped her achieve goals and succeed in real life situations.
"If I was taught anything in high school, I was taught the lessons of theatre. Theatre taught me how to be confident in whatever I decide to do. It pushed me to use the full capacity of my personality. I learned more about myself and who I am as a person compared to the characters and roles I portrayed," Lauren Mashburn.
By teaching theatre in schools, it allows students to reach out of their comfort zone and try activities that accentuate brain activity in a creative way. Students learn self esteem by practicing skills in a group of people with the same talents. Theatre is a learning process that may being as a difficult activity. After practice, an individual learns their own acting style and personality to use as an advantage in life. Confidence in performance on stage can also improve confidence in performance on academic tests and quizzes.
There are many points that are made as to why theatre should be taken out of the school curriculum during budget cuts. One point is that only the core subjects are necessary because they are the only intellectually stimulating material. As intellectual as math, science and English are, theatre proves to be just as stimulating. According to "Involvement in the Arts and Human Development", theatre increases reading proficiency. Reading and memorizing scripts helps the brain to recognize and understand words as well as phrases. Theatre is also intellectual due to quick thinking skills, memorization, history, and speech. It incorporates different styles of learning that core subjects lack. Theatre allows kinesthetic, linguistic, spatial, and logical learning patterns. By doing so, theatre includes any type of student.
Another controversial point made to discourage theatre in the educational system is that theatre should only remain in the community. Many people believe that theatre is not important enough to remain a part of school curriculum. This opinion may be obtained because such individuals have never experienced the joys and positive influences theatre has on the person. It is dangerous to exclude such an impacting course from education. It is argued that if theatre is taken away from school, it still belongs in the community. However, this information may be false. According to an article written in the Star Tribune, certain areas are cutting theatre budget from the community. It becomes an issue when theatre has to struggle to even remain a part of society. In Minneapolis, budget cuts are being made from community theatres because of the economic situation (startribune). What happens when schools cut theatre and community cuts theatre as well? Schools should protect and encourage theatre in the educational environment.
Theatre alone contributes to the educational experience in a variety of ways and deserves to be a part of school curriculum during budget cuts. It is an essential part of education. This year of 2009, particularly, the economy is at a low with money. Schools are being forced to cut programs to stay within the budget they are given. Unfortunately, theatre is the largest program to be cut because it is not believed to be an intellectual subject. On the contrary, theatre is proven to help students succeed in reading comprehension, language proficiency, memorization skills and quick thinking. Improvisation helps in the workforce as well as difficult situations. History is a hidden focal point of theatre. Historical evidence is shown throughout the writings of scripts and information can be gathered by each text. Self esteem and confidence are boosted with a healthy teaching of theatre. It teaches the individual how to use their talents to succeed. What will happen when creativity fails to encourage in the school system? Who will stand up for an art just as ancient as its rivaling core subjects? It is our job to push our educational faculty to never underestimate the value and importance theatre has on society. It is our job to stand up for talent and use it to our best ability.
