Andrew Tucker
Eng 105
Ms. Pralle
May 4, 2009
Cell Phone Society
There are many important issues in today's society that go unnoticed or ignored. One of these important issues is cell phone use while driving. This is a major controversy in today's society, nationally and internationally. It is estimated that more than 100 million people use cell phones while driving. (CTIA - The Wireless Association reports 270 million cell phone subscribers. A Nationwide Insurance public opinion poll showed 81 percent of the public admit to talking on a cell phone while driving). Although it is a social problem among most teens, this is not a purely adolescent problem. The problem lies with all people in the U.S. and in the world. Over 40 countries in the world have already placed nationwide bans on cellular or mobile phone use while operating a vehicle, what's stopping us?
Dr. Martin Cooper, a former general manager for the systems division of Motorola, is said to be the true inventor of the first portable handset as well as the first person to complete a call on one. Since this invention in 1973 cellular phone use has become one of the largest parts of society today. The first mobile phones, referred to as First Generation or 1G, were introduced to the public market in 1983 by the Motorola Company. These first mobile phones used analog technology which was much less reliable than the digital technology we use today. The analog phones also had a great deal more static and noise interference than we are accustomed to today. The first mobile phones during this era were confined to car phones and they were permanently installed in the floorboard of automobiles. After a few years, they became mobile and consumers could take the phones with them outside of the car. However, they weighed 2 pounds, offered just a half-hour of talk time for every recharging and sold for $3,995. The main purpose of this First Generation technology was for voice traffic, but consumers felt insecure about people listening in on their conversations. These new mobile phones were more of an image than an actual practicality.
However, during the 1990s, great improvements were made in the mobile phone technology. These phones used Second Generation, or 2G technology. In 1990, the first cell phone call was made using this new digital technology. The 2G cellular phone was faster and much quieter than its analog predecessor. As a result, it became much more popular than the previous models. The new technology also made them capable of being smaller rather than the large brick-sized units. Smaller batteries helped contribute to their smaller sizes and eventually to their growing popularity. Companies also strived to make the prices more affordable than the phones of the 1980s. You could buy a decent cell phone with 2G technology for approximately $200 along with an airtime service. These modern, more practical cell phones were a turning point in cellular phones as well as technology.
The Third Generation technology, or 3G, is what many people currently use today. This new technology is not only capable of transferring a phone call, but it is also able to transfer emails and text or picture messages, which are quickly becoming the most commonly used application on a cell phone today. Some even have music and movie capabilities and have GPS built in. Cell phones have transformed from being a mobile talking device to a mobile laptop with the capability of making a phone call. These capabilities have helped to increase the amount of sales and popularity of cell phones. Many cell phone companies offer free and very affordable phones for consumers who sign-up with their airtime service for a contractual period. Cell phones can range anywhere from free (with a service plan) to 500,000 dollars, which is currently the most expensive phone in the world. This new technology has revolutionized cellular communication, but has also opened the doors for danger and destruction among all those who use them.
According to the 1997 New England Journal of Medicine examination of hospital records and 2005 Insurance Institute for Highway Safety study linking crashes to cell phone records, drivers who use cell phones are four times more likely to be in some type of a car accident. The main reason for this is distraction. Cell phone use does not necessarily completely distract a driver's attention, but it definitely impairs it. And even though laws are being made to ban hand- held cell phone use and promote hands- free use, there is no noticeable difference in the distraction between hand-held and hands-free devices. (Simulator studies at the U. of Utah.)
Drivers who use cell phones are a major cause of car accidents. 80 percent of all car crashes are related to driver inattention. There are certain activities that may be more dangerous than talking on a cell phone. However, cell phone use occurs more frequently and for longer durations than other, riskier behaviors. Thus, the #1 source of driver inattention is cell phones. (Virginia Tech 100-car study for NHTSA). No state in the U.S. completely bans cell phone use while driving, however many laws have been placed. Handheld cell phones are banned for all drivers in 5 states (California, Connecticut, New Jersey, New York and Washington), and the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands prohibit all drivers from talking on handheld cell phones while driving. With the exception of Washington State, these laws are all primary enforcement. Which means an officer may ticket a driver for using a handheld cell phone while driving without any other traffic offense taking place. 18 states and the District of Columbia placed a ban on all cell phone use by novice drivers. School bus drivers are prohibited from all cell phone use when passengers are present in 17 states and in the District of Columbia; 8 states (Alaska, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Louisiana, Minnesota, New Jersey and Washington) and the District of Columbia have a text messaging ban for all drivers, 9 states prohibit text messaging by novice drivers. 6 states legally restrict school bus drivers from texting while driving and 8 states have laws that prohibit local jurisdictions from enacting restrictions. In 6 other states, localities are allowed to ban cell phone use. Utah considers speaking on a cell phone to be an offense only if a driver is also committing some other moving violation (other than speeding). Russ Rader, a spokesman for Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, said this year, lawmakers in more than 40 states are debating about 240 pieces of legislation that deal with the use of cell phones while driving. That figure includes changes to any current laws, which Rader said are a challenge to enforce.
In California, Cell phone laws are extremely prevalent. As of January 1, 2009, all of the following laws were made effective. The law prohibits all drivers from using a handheld wireless telephone while operating a motor vehicle, (California Vehicle Code [VC] 23123). Motorists 18 and over may use a "hands-free device." It also prohibits all drivers from texting while operating a motor vehicle (VC 23123.5). The law also prohibits drivers under the age of 18 from using a wireless telephone or hands-free device while operating a motor vehicle (VC 23124). The law allows a driver to use a wireless telephone to make emergency calls to a law enforcement agency, a medical provider, the fire department, or other emergency services agency. The base fine for the FIRST offense is $20 and $50 for subsequent convictions. With penalty assessments, the fine can be more than triple the base fine amount. The violation is a reportable offense; however, a violation point will not be assigned to your DMV record. These laws only apply to the person driving a motor vehicle. The laws apply to all drivers, out of state and in state.
In comparison, in Pennsylvania, a proposal to ban hand held cell phone use while driving was recently rejected by the state's House of Representatives. The proposal, brought forth by Pennsylvania State Representative Josh Shapiro, stated that under the measure, drivers could get pulled over simply for being spotted using a hand-held cell phone. Shapiro was also trying to make this offense a primary one, similar to driving under the influence. He feels that the use of cell phones in a car creates a similar impairment to that of drinking or doing drugs and then driving. A different proposal introduced, however, would make talking on a hand-held cell phone, along with other distractions such as applying makeup, be merely a secondary offense. Decisions like this one made by Pennsylvania's Representatives is opening up a path for the endangering of lives. According to a study conducted by the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society, cell phone distractions cause 2,600 deaths in the United States each year.
The law does not allow for any "push-to-talk" features. However, the law does provide an exception for those operating a commercial motor truck or truck tractor (excluding pickups), implements of husbandry, farm vehicle or tow truck, to use a two-way radio operated by a "push-to-talk" feature. A push-to-talk feature attached to a hands-free ear piece or other hands-free device is acceptable. Operators of an authorized emergency vehicle during the course of employment are exempt, as are those motorists operating a vehicle on private property. This law does not prohibit reading, selecting or entering a phone number or name in an electronic wireless device for the purpose of making or receiving a phone call. Drivers are strongly urged not to enter a phone number while driving. Drivers 18 and over are allowed to use a "hands-free" device to talk on their wireless telephone while driving. The law does not prohibit dialing, but drivers are strongly urged not to dial while driving. You are allowed to us a blue tooth or earpiece if only one ear is covered. You are also allowed to use the speaker phone function on your cell phone as long as you are not holding the cell phone.
Laws are even stricter for those who are provisional drivers. Some may argue that the laws should be the same for all drivers. Although statistics show that teen drivers are more likely than older drivers to be involved in crashes because they lack driving experience and tend to take greater risks. Teen drivers are vulnerable to driving distractions such as talking with passengers, eating or drinking, and talking or texting on wireless devices, which increase the chance of getting involved in serious vehicle crashes. The only exception for a provisional driver to use an electronic device while driving is if he or she is using it in an emergency situation, such as to call the police of fire department.
Also, in most states, this law does not just apply to provisional drivers, but to all those who are under the age of 18.
So many different laws and bans have been placed on cell phone, mobile phone, and even radio to radio use that this must be a problem. But what is the actual problem? In 2005, a study showed that the part of the brain that controls vision is where the problem lies and that hands-free phones do not lower the risk of an accident because the problem lies in the verbal conversation. "When we do talk and do some other task, it's very clear to us that your brain is not fully doing both processes at the same time," Paul Atchley, a cognitive psychologist at University of Kansas in Lawrence said in this study. Psychologists at the University of Kansas found the part of the brain that controls vision, the occipital lobe, becomes less active when people focus on something visually while having a conversation. Dr. Atchley said, "Even though their eyes are open, they're missing things that are in the visual world that might be critical for them, for example a car coming into an intersection.. Really what you need to do is just not drive and talk on the cell phone at the same time." In another study, researchers at the University of Warwick revealed that mobile telephone conversations impair drivers' visual attention to such a degree that it can add almost 19 feet to the braking distance of a car travelling at 60 miles per hour and causes almost twice as many driving errors as drivers driving without the distraction of a phone conversation. Dr Melina Kunar, from the University of Warwick's Department of Psychology, and Dr Todd Horowitz, from Harvard Medical School, ran a number of experiments in which the participants had to pay attention and respond to a series of discs moving around a computer screen. Some of the participants had no distraction during the experiment, but others had to carry out the task while using speaker phones to engage in a normal phone conversation, discussing things such as their hobbies and interests. The researchers found that on average the reaction times of those engaging in the hands free telephone conversation were 212 milliseconds slower than those who undertook the task without the simultaneous telephone conversation. A car travelling at 60 miles an hour would travel 18. 7 feet (5. 7 meters) in that time so the conversation would obviously increase a braking distance at that speed by the same amount. The test participants who were distracted by a phone conversation also made 83% more errors in the task than those not in phone conversations.
The researchers also looked at the effect that the hands free telephone conversations had on visual attention. To do so they asked the test participants to listen over the speaker phones to a series of words and to repeat each word in turn. This test found that the performance of the participants was the same as when the participants had no distraction. The research team also looked at the effect of much more complicated tasks in which the test participants had to listen to a series of words and after each word they would say a new word which began with the last letter of the word prior. However, they found the more complicated conversation in which the test participants were required to create and respond with a new word dramatically worsened the participants' response times, which were on average 480 milliseconds slower than those who undertook the task without any form of distraction. This shows that hands free telephone conversations have a significant negative impact on a driver's ability to process and act on the visual information that is critical to their driving performance. The lead researcher in the project, Dr Kunar said, "Our research shows that simply using phones hands free is not enough to eliminate significant impacts on a driver's visual attention. Generating responses for a conversation competes for the brain's resources with other activities which simply cannot run in parallel. This leads to a cognitive "bottleneck" developing in the brain, particularly with the more complicated task of word generation."
As of June 2008, 85 percent of the American population had a wireless device. (International Association for the Wireless Telecommunications Industry). With so many cell phone related crashes happening every day, and so many states putting bans or restrictions on cell phone use while driving, one can only wonder what is stopping a nationwide ban on the use of cell phones while driving. There are still 18 states with no kind of ban or restriction at all. If 48 countries around the world can make some type of nationwide law restricting the use of cell phones while driving, why can't we? Albert Einstein once said, "All our lauded technological progress--our very civilization--is like the axe in the hand of the pathological criminal."
