Is it Really a Problem
Is illegal immigration becoming a world problem or are we as Americans making it one? Illegal immigrants have affected the United States in many negative ways and will continue to do so unless the United States takes firmer action on how they deal with the issues of the illegal immigrants. Some of the ways that we are affected are through the lowering of wages, increase in crime rates, jobs taken from Americans, and lowering the overall economic conditions. Illegal immigrants have too many rights when entering into the United States. These issues need to be investigated further as they affect the everyday life of many individuals. Even though Americans think that it is becoming a problem the illegal immigrants coming over illegally are coming over here to better themselves and sometimes their families.
Some things are starting to change around the United States. For instance, how they have implemented the issues of illegal immigrant employment. One of the main things that the Americans have done is how they have started to revive the issue of illegal immigrant employment. We need to revive the issue of illegal immigration employment because it has a major impact on the economy. "Illegal immigrants coming into the country are depressing American wages by the willingness of these workers to work for lower wages" (Thredgold, 2006). Lowering wages has made it difficult for Americans to earn a decent living because American businesses are taking advantage of these low wage laborers who will work for less than the average American will. Another aspect to consider is that illegal immigrants are also taking jobs that American workers should have. Since there are no tougher laws or fines in place for businesses employing these immigrants, many companies are taking advantage of these alien workers. According to Camarota, "the vast majority of illegal immigrants hold jobs. Thus the fiscal deficit they create for the federal government is not the result of an unwillingness to work" (Camarota, 2006). Many illegal immigrants come into this country to take advantage of these employment opportunities and to make more money. The illegal immigrants do not just take low end jobs, they also take some of the really high end jobs in major companies. Herbst, Moira from USA Today states, "late last month the government disclosed that the top four recipients of the work visas in 2008 were all Indian outsourcers--Infosys Technologies, Wipro, Satyam, and Tata Consultancy. The companies use the visas to bring employees from abroad to work in their U.S. operations, typically for two or three years," (Herbst). This may be a benefit for the illegal immigrants, but overall it is hurting the American population due to the fact that Americans are losing jobs and companies are giving jobs to the illegal immigrants to save the company money. It does not make them illegal immigrants because they are on visas, but some companies are abusing the use of the visa.
In 1999 a United States law was issued by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission that banned employment discrimination against illegal immigrants. For instance, "Three of the workers that were fired filed complaints with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, alleging they lost their jobs because of their ethnicity. Workers were fired after the implementation of Mississippi state law cracking down on undocumented workers and their employers. These crackdowns by state and federal authorities are having their intended effect. According to a study of monthly Census Bureau data, the illegal immigrant population has declined "significantly" between last summer and May of this year," (Herbst). This law allows illegal immigrants to receive back-pay from an employer that discriminates against them. Thus the United States loses money due to alleged discrimination. This allows illegal immigrants to receive the same rights as United States citizens. This is a perfect example of non-citizens receiving rights that they have not earned on a fair basis.
Even though there are illegal immigrants coming over to the United States illegally does not mean that they are not trying to do the right thing and become a legal citizen. A perfect example is Hipolito "Polo" Rivas. A former illegal immigrant from El Salvador, turned U.S. citizen in December 2001, Hipolito "Polo" Rivas came into America to better his life at the age of 18. He did not enter the United States in search of welfare; he came to work and to prove that not all illegals are the same. He did not murder anyone nor was he part of some horrible crime, he simply minded his own business and kept in mind what he came to the United States to do. He went to work, learned how to speak English, eventually fell in love, got married, and started a family. Finally when the timing was right, he applied for U.S. citizenship. Granted, many people think that he should have initially received a green card and entered in a more legal way, but things were very different back then. He agrees that back then, illegal immigrants were coming over here for the fun of it rather than for more serious matters. However, he believes that more visas should be issued to people wanting to enter America and start new lives, instead of kicking them out and not even giving them a chance. He explains that there is good in coming over and not all illegals come over just for fun even though there are some who do. The ones who do, do not care to get a U.S. citizenship, they just come and abuse what we Americans have worked so long and hard for.
My mother on the other hand went through all of the legal steps needed to become a legal citizen. It took a great deal of her time and money. She was born in the United Kingdom. She then married my Father who was in the United States military which did make it a little easier on her because he was in the military. The steps that need to be taken are, to go the United States Embassy and receive an Immigration application, part one. After completion, you must make an appointment to return back to the embassy, when you go back they look through the application to see if you are eligible. If so, you must pay $750 for part one to file. If they accept you to move forward you need to do part two, which consists of a full medical background check from an approved physician only and a full criminal background check from any and every country you lived in. Then you need to make another appointment at the Embassy, take all medical records, x rays, and background information. If approved once again you need to pay $1,275. Then they are called back for yet another appointment to go back in approximately five days, and they tell you whether you've been accepted or not. You get a temporary visa in your passport. You have 21 days to enter the United States. They give you a packet that needs to be presented to immigration when you get into United States. Then immigration takes it and looks at it and stamps your passport and you will get your green card which comes in the mail in about ten days. After five or more years in the United States with your green card you can either apply for citizenship or renew your green card. Also you cannot enter the United States without a sponsor, in my Mothers case, my Father. Those are just two examples of real people struggles to enter the United States legally and illegally. Thus demonstrating that it is not only tough on illegal immigrants but it is money and time consuming on legal immigrants.
Illegal immigrants account for a large share of costs in welfare programs, food assistance, and educational benefits. Illegal immigrants impose costs that are much larger than those of the average household. They also utilize a large portion of the welfare benefits. Food assistance programs are one of the main assistance programs that illegal aliens take advantage of. According to Camarota (2004), "Illegal households receive more of this type of program then non illegal households, accounting for 5.6% of federal costs for these programs." There is also a high treatment cost for the uninsured because a large share of illegal immigrants and their children lack health insurance.
Illegal Immigrants impose significant costs on the federal education budget. "Illegal immigrants who live in New York and are attending CUNY are considered genuine New Yorkers and pay only $1,600 per semester, versus $3,400 for students living in the US legally but commuting from outside the state" (Seligman 2002, 169). The United States is making it harder for illegal immigrants to come over with there families and get state tuition. "In the past two years, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia and Oklahoma have refused in-state tuition benefits to students who entered the USA illegally with their parents but grew up and went to school in the state. That represents a reversal from earlier this decade when 10 states passed laws allowing in-state rates for such students," (Marklein). This just shows that the United States is taken more legal steps to make sure that illegal immigrants do not get more benefits when it come to schooling.
However, it is not fair to those students who have been attending and excelling in school, who suddenly get those education benefits pulled from underneath their feet. Every child has a right to learn, regardless of legal status. Parents of those children who are in fact illegal immigrants are able to get their children free tuition because they do not make enough money with their minimum wage jobs to pay for schooling. On the other hand, it is the same for parents who are U.S. citizens, because if they do not make enough money with their regular paying jobs, their children can also receive free tuition. So in reality, it does not matter whether you are a citizen or not because you are still eligible to get financial aid.
Even though we as Americans are doing better to pass laws to stop illegal immigrants from getting more rights, we might be over stepping our boundary with some of our techniques. The United States uses a system called the Immigration Detention System which allows American law makers to detain and deport illegal immigrants back to their country of origin. In some cases, illegal immigrants are strong armed to turn themselves in and let themselves get deported. Others that are captured actually have U.S. citizenship, but the detention system does not seem to be compassionate about how they feel or if they have US citizenship. In the USA Today, "immigration officials detained about 378,000 illegal immigrants last year, at least three times the number detained a decade ago. On any given day, about 33,400 people are held in some 350 facilities, including prisons among criminals," (USA Today). Those are just some of the conditions they have to deal with. Others die in these detention systems due to lack of medical care. What we as Americans are trying to do is right but the way we are trying to do it is wrong. We need to make sure that when we take people in to custody we check to see if they are indeed legal so we are not making the mistake of taking the wrong people.
Many people think that the main problem lies at the U.S.-Mexico border; that if tighter security were in place and construction of walls were put up, it would be able to keep the majority of illegal immigrants from entering the U.S. at a minimum, which is obviously the complete opposite. Truly determined immigrants will stop at nothing to save their families, and they certainly will not let walls stop them from their destination.
Overall, illegal immigrants have too many rights when coming to the United States. Illegal immigrants account for a receiving a good percentage of benefits from the government. If they want to come to the United States and get educated, receive jobs, and work an honest life, then they need to do the right thing and become LEGAL!
