Colton Green
Belknap
English 105
4-20-09
Why 18 is Old Enough
Underage drinking has been a big debate in the United States for many years now. The debate has been mostly about whether or not an 18 year old can make the right decisions or not when they drink. Underage drinkers do make mistakes when they drink but alcohol affects everyone's judgment no matter what age they are. If an 18 year old is old enough to fight and die for their country, vote, be able to get married, and own land they should be able to make the decision to drink or not (Brawner 1). It is crazy to think that someone that can die for their country but cannot legally even enjoy a beer or a glass of wine with their friends and family. Some people argue that underage drinkers will probably not know their limit until their brains are fully developed, but most people argue that almost no one would be able to know their drinking limit unless they try alcohol. Although there are many reasons why people say that lowering the drinking age to 18 would be a bad idea, with certain laws and precautions, drinking at 18 would happen safely. There would be less drinking and driving among teens because it would be more acceptable to call a cab or call a parent to come pick them up. The consequences that are set right for being caught by the law if you are drinking underage can ruin a person's life. People that disagree with underage drinking need to see that it is not all bad. Underage drinking is not the problem it is simply over consumption (Daily Barometer 1). A person that is 18 years or older should be able to enjoy a drink of alcohol safely and responsibly without getting in trouble by the law.
There are a lot of young adults that are getting in trouble for consumption and possession of alcohol when they were not doing anything wrong at all. Minor in Consumptions (MIC) are misdemeanors that go on criminal records. Also, when most young adults get in trouble by the law they are given a fine, have to attend alcohol classes, and sometimes a suspended license. As seen in figure 1 a minor can be arrested just for possession of alcohol and they were not doing anything any thing illegal besides possession of alcohol. The punishments for underage drinking need to be less severe for drinking alcohol responsibly. Judge Rob Hunger "favors lowering drinking penalties." He thinks that if there is minor that is caught with possession or consumption of alcohol and are not doing anything wrong they should just have to do Figure 1. Being Arrested some hours of community service. He also agrees that if the minor was caught acting out of control they should get a MIC on there criminal records. He also stated that anyone acting out of control under the influence of alcohol should get in trouble by the law (Hunger 1).
The fact that if an 18 year old is caught with alcohol and is being safe and acting under control will have an MIC put on their criminal record is to extreme. The punishment for underage drinking is set to high and needs to be changed. It is ruining the lives of so many young adults today just because they made a little mistake, but who does not make mistakes? There are young adults that are straight A students and great athletes in college that are obviously smart enough to decide and be able to drink responsibly. Not only does getting a MIC affect getting a job that is desired, it affects how you are looked as a person in society. Yet these good people are getting in trouble for enjoying a few drinks with their friends and it is affecting many parts of their lives that they cannot fix now. Getting a minor in consumption is very destructive to a person's life.
Many people believe that underage drinking is dangerous and lowering the drinking age would just make more problems. Underage drinking can be very dangerous but drinking for anyone can be very dangerous. Most of the time drinking becomes dangerous when limits, responsibilities, and cautions are broken. All of these can be broken by anyone not just underage drinkers. Drinking impairs most people's judgment no matter what the age is. Some also say that drinking at 18 will most likely lead to unhealthy drinking later in life but most underage drinking starts when a person is 15 years old (Califano 1). This is when kids start drinking and grow up to have addictive and unhealthy behaviors toward alcohol, not at the age of 18. One of the reasons why drinking starts at such a young age is because of careless parenting. Parents need to realize that giving their children drinks under the age of 18 is not good. Drinking under the age of 18 is dangerous and something really needs to happen to stop it. Law enforcement really needs to focus more on stopping people from drinking that is at the age of 15, not at 18.
Luckily not all parents give their children drinks when they are that young. A New Zealand study examined what age parents thought it was alright for their children to start drinking (Dean 4). The research included 748 parents with children in the age range of 13-17. Through out the research the parents were asked several different questions on their thoughts of underage drinking. Most of the questions were based around if they thought it was alright to give their children a drink or two. Also they asked a question about the age they should be able to drink responsibly. As seen in Figure 2 most parents thought it was alright to give their children a drink or two and let them drink freely at the age of 18. This just shows that if most parents think it is alright for an 18 year old to drink some alcohol, then why can't they?
Figure 2. Parents Thoughts on Drinking Age in New Zealand
Underage drinking is said to be harmful to society but it is actually helping it in some ways. There was study on how much the government and alcohol industries in Australia gain by adolescents buying alcohol (Doran and Hall 2). They found that over 506,000 minors consumed around 175. 69 million regular alcohol drinks in 2005. The ages that were researched were 12-27 year olds. The total revenue that was made off of this was around $218 million and the government made about 107 million from this with 49% taxation revenue. The estimate underage drinker ended up spending around $430 each and the revenue increasing with age. This means that there was even more made than this because from 18 to 20 years of age was not looked at in the research. A female spent around $121 a year on alcohol and each male spent around $257 a year (Doran and Hall 1). The Australian government and alcohol industries benefit a lot off of underage drinkers. Many people are actually gaining money from underage drinking.
Drinking for 18 year olds and up can become a regular thing to do only if the right laws and precautions were taken into place. One good idea that a college student by the name Courtney Gavin thought of is getting a drinkers permit. Just like before you turn 16 and get your drivers license a person must do a certain amount of driving with an adult in the car (Gavin 1). A good solution to underage drinking is that minors under the age or around 18 years old should have to drink under the presence of adults or their parents. The adults will then be able to decide if the minors are able to drink safely and responsible enough on there own. When the young adults passed they could get a license before they are 21 to drink. This would allow the minors to know their drinking limits before the turn the age they are aloud to drink. As Courtney said, Drinking age is like a stoplight now days. It is red until you are twenty-one and green for the rest of a persons life. The yellow light was taken out of the picture (Gavin 1). If the so said "yellow light" part of drinking was taken into place, underage drinking would be safer and the young adults would know their limits on drinking alcohol before they were legally able to take their first drink unsupervised.
Another way a person can qualify to get a license to be able to drink is they have to have graduated from high school or gotten their GED. I think this would be a good idea because most of the young adults that drink unsafely are the ones with lower education as seen in Figure 3. It would also be a good idea if the young adult had to have a certain amount of adults twenty-one or older sign for them to get the license. To make this process more reliable the young adult would have to get signatures by people they are related to or somebody they live with that has no criminal record and also has a good education. The last thing that a young adult should have to go through to get obtain one of these license is they should have to go through a certain amount alcohol education classes. This would make the young adults more knowledgeable about what alcohol can do to a person. After taking these classes it would probably let the young adults know more about what alcohol can do to a person than most 21 Figure 3. Kid That do Poorly in School are More Likely to Drink and older adults know. If a minor were properly educated about alcohol they would make smarter and more responsible choices when drinking alcohol.
The idea of getting a license to drink before a young adult is twenty-one is a safe and knowledgeable thing to do. The license will only work if the law enforces all of these steps or it will just lead to even lower aged drinkers, which is the worst of all. The law enforcement will also have to keep a close watch on all of the stores that are selling to minors with fake IDs. With this license 18 year olds will be able to drink legally which will lead to less reckless behavior when drinking underage. There might be a couple more laws and steps that would have to be added to getting the license but it is a good place to start for safe drinking for people that are 18 years old.
Lowering the drinking age is a reasonable and trustworthy thing to do. There are many reasons why an 18 year old can drink wisely and safely. Some of the obvious reason why they are mature enough to drink at that age is because of the right to vote, fight for the United States, get married, and own property. If they are legally considered as adults they should be given the same rights as any adults have. Not only will young adults benefit from the drinking age being lowered but the government and the alcohol industries will too. The United States is ready for the drinking age to be dropped. If for some reason the laws do not change the consequences and punishments for drinking need to be less severe. It is unreasonable to get something put on your criminal record just because a person was enjoying alcohol safely and responsibly. Young adults should be able to enjoy alcohol beverages without having to worry about getting in trouble and affecting the rest of their lives.
Work Cited
Doran, Christopher and Hall, Wayne. "Alcohol industry and government revenue derived from underage drinking by Australian adolescents 2005." Addictive Behaviors. 34:1(January, 2009). 75-81. <http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=4&hid=21&sid=4ef45 59d-c5d3-46f6-8c5b-455df9684fcc%40sessionmgr9&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc3Qtb Gl2ZQ %3d%3d#db=aph&AN=35074666>.
"Underage Drinking Not the Problem." Daily Barometer. October 2005. <http://www2.potsdam.edu/hansondj/Youth Issues/1131639358.html>.
Gavin, Courtney. "A Learner's Permit for Drinking." Alcohol Problems and Solutions. February 2004. <http://www2.potsdam.edu/hansondj/youthissues/1077647423.html>.
Brawner, Dan. "If you're old enough to fight, vote and marry at 18, how come you're too young to drink?" American Chronicle. October 2007. <http://www.americanchronicle.com/ articles/view/39804>.
Hunger, Rob. "Judges Favor Lower Drinking Penalties." The Daily Cardinal. April 2004.<http://www.dailycardinal.com/article/12208>.
Dean, Johanna and Others. " Parent attitudes on the supply of alcohol to minors." Drug and Alcohol Review. (January, 2007). 41-47. <http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=6&hid =2&sid=4ef4559d-c5d3-46f6-8c5b-455df9684fcc%40sessionmgr9&bdata=Jn Npd GU9ZWhvc 3Qtb Gl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=aph&AN=24904485>.
Califano, Joseph and Others. "Alcohol and Teen Drinking." Focus Adolescent Services. April 2009. <http://www.focusas.com/Alcohol.html>.
GREEN
8
