Chad Warren
Ms. Kacie Beagen
English 105
April 30, 2009
Peas Pass da Weemote
In today's modern and fast paced society, it is hard to find time to bond with family. No one knows this more than mothers of newborns. They are always looking for time to spend with their babies, but having a baby entails more than just changing diapers. It is important to pay attention to baby, but sometimes a mother needs just thirty minutes to herself. Then is when developmental videos for babies come into play. Compared to everything else that is on television, developmental videos, like Baby Einstein, help to stimulate the baby and not only help develop the baby's mind, but also give parents a much needed 30 minutes of personal time. They are a good way to bond and interact with baby and keep him or her engaged, leaving the mommy with more time on her hands for herself and her baby.
The fist developmental baby videos came around 1997. Since then, hundreds of different videos have been released and millions sold. One of the most prominent companies delivering developmental videos is Disney's Baby Einsteins. This company was started in 1996 when mother of 2, Julie Aigner-Clark shot the first Baby Einstein in her basement. She took Albert Einstein's quote to heart, "I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious" (Albert Einstein). Aigner-Clark realized that not only was Einstein curious, but every single new baby was very curious about the world around them. She wanted to expose the world outside, the world that babies would soon play in, "using real-world objects, music, art, language, science, poetry and nature in playful, enriching ways" (Baby Einstein-History). The videos are also "designed to encourage discovery and inspire new ways for parents and little ones to interact" (Baby Einstein-Our Story).
The previous paragraph was really full of a bunch of nice things that the videos can do and are designed to do. But the majority of mothers that use developmental videos, end up by placing their child in front of the television with the movie playing, stimulating the child's interest.alone. This gives the mom a chance to catch her breath and do the dishes or take a shower without having to worry about entertaining the baby. In a parenting post called "Motherlode" on the New York Times website, author and mother herself, Lisa Belkin states that, "Cave moms probably always had a spare set of hands ready to hold the baby for awhile, but modern mothers, living further from their own parents and siblings, don't" (Belkin). This exemplifies nearly every new mother, so busy she is lucky she if gets to go to bed. And Belkin would know, she has her own radio show about being a mother, as well as publishing three books, including "Life's Work: Confessions of an Unbalanced Mom." The few free moments that the videos provide the mother to have, help to keep her sane and to stay relaxed and stress free. This is important in a household with a new baby. If a mother gets too stressed out, she can cause the baby to become distressed. "Distress occurs when stress is acute or chronic and is overwhelming and exceeds the child's capacity to cope appropriately. In general, most children do well under normal stress, but when stress is prolonged and mismanaged, it can prove detrimental to child's physical and emotional well-being." (Quentin). Preventing the parent from being stressed is only one of the many wonders developmental videos can help improve in a baby and mother's life.
The material in the developmental movies is quality information, providing a good alternative to regular television. On her video, "Keeping Toddlers Inline With Positive Distraction Techniques", Dr. Christina Johns, an Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Emergency Medicine at the George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, suggested that, "children have very short attention spans, it is unusual for children to remain on one task for more than 15 minutes. Distractions are important, they are necessary, and they are a part of a toddler's life. Parents can use distraction... [they] can be helpful before a child is going to have a meltdown or the child seems to be getting angry or frustrated with one particular project. It can save the parent a meltdown or two" (Johns). What Dr. Johns is revealing is that because babies have such a short attention span, it is important to captivate their attention in many different ways. There are only so many toys to capture the baby's attention in the house, so a developmental video could be one of those "different" ways. For example, if a mother wanted to place her baby in front of the television with a Baby Einsteins on to keep his or her attention so mommy can pick up the house and brush her teeth, mommy shouldn't feel bad, what she is doing is totally okay. This is how Lisa Belkin puts it, "if you are buying special videos for [the television, and think it is going] to prep a very young child's brain for Harvard, save your money, the Harvard researchers say. But if you are using the [videos] for their entertainment and your sanity, stop feeling guilty" (Belkin). When talking about what developmental videos were really used for in the household, an interview with Erin Hulse, a great mom of two adorable boys, revealed her little secrete, "I love them for the educational stuff, but I use them ALL THE TIME to just get something done around the house...you caught me! :)" (Hulse Interview). Erin should not be afraid of what she is doing because there are so many worse things on television that she could be exposing her children to. By having them watch Baby Einsteins, she is making a healthy choice that will keep Malachi and Tristan, her boys, engaged and not scared or exposed to inappropriate material. Keeping new babies engaged is important not only so mommy can get things done around the house, but as a
Godfrey Hall Education Adviser said on Baby IQ's website, "Very young children require a certain amount of stimulation every day as most of the brain development in early years takes place in the few 24 months.... This product will, I feel, provide excellent stimuli for the child" (Godfrey). By saying this, it helps make the parents who are using developmental videos feel better about using them and also shows that there is an important reason to use them other than to give mommy time to herself.
Another approach to developmental videos is to look at them as an addition to the toys in the toy chest, or a whole toy chest in itself. While there are some parents who will never watch a developmental video with their child, many will and they will receive more benefit from the video than a regular physical toy a child receives at Christmas. Even the video companies try to make the videos enjoyable for the parents as well as the children. On Baby IQ's website, another prominent developmental video company, they promised that they "have avoided the cartoon baby music we know you [as the parent] find so annoying. We have kept the plot very simple because we know how easily you get confused" (Baby IQ). This is an important step by Baby IQ to help and get the parents involved in the child's viewing. On Baby Einstein's website they encourage the parents to "sing and dance with your little one, talk about all the things you see on the DVD, replicate the puppet skits anytime you and baby want to share a laugh, and even bring the video experience to life with a reinforcing trip to the petting zoo, or the market, and just taking a walk in and around the house" (Baby Einstein-Ask the Expert). As parents become involved in their child's viewing experience, the video seems to make more sense and acts more like a toy than a show. In fact, because the television screen has the ability to simulate an infinite number of images, keeping the interest of the baby is no difficulty for developmental videos. That is why one Baby IQ or Baby Einstein video can replace a whole chest of toys if the parents are interacting along with the video. The videos can become an adventure for the child, letting them experience the world without ever having to leave the safety of your home. This is important because when the baby does leave the house, he or she might recognize some of the objects from the film and then feel more comfortable and give the parent something to engage the child with.
Something that is never mentioned but always on the back of a parents mind when it comes to developmental videos is the fact that they are convenient. Adding to the fact that they enable mommy to get things done around the house there is a whole other list of reason to choose a developmental video. With the economy being as it is at this point in time, affordability is on everyone's minds. The average price of a developmental video is $14. 99 to $16.99. At this price, a parent could afford two regular physical toys for their child to play with. But, back to
what Dr. Christina Johns said, "children have very short attention spans, it is unusual for children to remain on one task for more than 15 minutes" (Johns). Those physical toys the toddler is playing with are only going to engage the child for a short time where the video, with its ability to show infinite images, will keep the baby entertained the whole time it is on. This means that when looking at the reality of purchasing one developmental video over two toys, it is really more like purchasing hundreds of toys and ways to captivate baby's interest. Another fact about the convince of a video is how there is no messy clean up afterwards. Not only does this keep the stress level down but it gives mommy more play time with baby. Interacting and bonding between a newborn and their mother are crucial to the development of the baby. Constance Matthiessen, a former writer for the Center for Investigative Reporting, states "Research has shown that bonding fosters a sense of security and positive self-esteem and provides an excellent first model for intimate relationships forged later on in life" (Matthiessen). Not only do developmental videos promote bonding with the baby while watching the movie, but with the little amount of set-up and take-down time, there is much more time for mommy and baby to bond. From giving mommy a break to getting her more involved, all while saving money, it is hard to think that some people believe developmental videos are not a good thing.
One of the main misconceptions about these types of developmental videos aimed at the under 2-year-old audience is that they are supposed to make your baby smarter. This is not true, in fact, on the Baby Einstein's website, it precisely states that the videos are "specifically designed to engage babies and provide parents with tools to help expose their little ones to the world around them in playful and engaging ways - inspiring a baby's natural curiosity" (Baby Einstein-Our Story). This almost disclaimer, helps to let mothers know that if they want to make their baby smarter by sticking them in front of the television, than they should know that no video is going to increase a baby's intelligence. Most who are against these developmental baby videos, state that the videos are a waste because the baby does not get any smarter than before they watched the videos. Evidence of this happening is shown in the Harvard study published in "The Official Journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics," Pediatrics. In conclusion to their findings, this is what they came up with, "Television viewing in infancy does not seem to be associated with language or visual motor skills at 3 years of age" (Pediatrics). This is quite the fallacy because they are basing it off an unrealistic and made up promise by the video companies. Nowhere on any of the companies' products does it say that the videos are trying to improve language or visual motor skills. The researchers just wasted 3 years trying to discover if Grape Jelly tastes like blueberries, when on the jar it says it doesn't!
While the actual viewing of the developmental movies does not make the baby smarter, there is some science to the music in the background of almost every video. Most of the developmental videos available today do not have any voiceover, at Baby IQ they say, "this is because [they] want you and your baby to talk together about all the things you see" (Baby IQ). Going back to what Matthiessen's article on the importance of mother and baby bonding, she suggested that mothers should, "Talk, sing, read, or recite a poem to your baby. Learning the sound of your voice is another way your child will learn to recognize and get to know you" (Matthiessen). This is exactly what video company Baby IQ is trying to get mothers to do. In the background of all the videos there is classical music playing, and an important reason behind it. Dr. Diane Bales of the department of Child and Family Development at the University of Georgia says that, "Listening to classical music can improve our spatial reasoning, at least for a short time. And learning to play an instrument may have an even longer effect on certain thinking skills" (Bales). With classical music playing in the background, certain pathways in the brain are opened and the baby's ability to visualize spatial patterns is increased. There are also many developmental videos that show puppets and animals playing musical instruments, thus creating a positive memory of musical instruments in a baby's mind so that later on in life they may be more likely to want to play a musical instrument. These are things that are not guaranteed to happen if your baby watches a Baby Einsteins or Baby IQ video, they are definitely more likely to happen.
After all things considered, developmental videos are a new step in digital entertainment for young and exploring children. Even those who do not like the videos cannot be correct because they are missing the importance of what they really have to offer. A mother with less to do is a less stressed mother. A mother with more time on her hands is one who gets to play with her children more often, helping them to grow in love and build relationships later on in life. Developmental videos help to do all of this while still keeping the family within budget. Isn't it time mommy had some time to herself and even more time to spend with her new baby?
Awards won by Baby Einsteins Movies.
Source: www.babyeinstein.com
