Doth 1
Zachary Doth
Belknap
English 105
30 April, 2009
Technological Dependency
Living in the twenty first century people are constantly faced with new technology. Since technology is becoming increasingly more present in day to day life, without much difficulties or cost, people are becoming more and more dependent on its presence. Technology has many benefits but anything must be used in moderation. Technology has now reached a stage where it's so common that it is changing education, communication, and day to day life for the worse.
Education has seen a dramatic influence from the advancements of technology. Classrooms are evolving into environments filled with computers and other technological devices. Students are able to explore virtual worlds in which they interact with different characters that provide them with a concept or help them solve a problem (Reform, 4). This one on one learning method with a computer allows students to learn at their own pace and on a first-hand experience basis. This seems like it would be a very effective form of teaching students. However, when a computer is the one presenting every problem and there is only one possible solution programmed into the system children are forced to think only one way and there is a large amount of imagination lost in the translation.
In the case of higher education there are several things that are occurring when students are using computers for their exams and quizzes.
. with students memorizing information and then taking onscreen exams three significant problems recur: (1) far more valuable and contemporary ways of learning are disregarded; (2) important student needs are not being met; and (3) colleges and universities fail to make changes that will enhance their value and well-being;. (Academic, 2)
This shows that not only does the decrease in productivity stretch from elementary education up to the university level but also that in both cases there are problems that occur with the system.
In addition, to providing teaching programs there are many documents, including textbooks, which are provided only on the computer. Instead of buying hundreds of textbooks for often hundreds of dollars apiece, schools are able to purchase one program at one price for a single time. "Computing power is more available and affordable than ever before" (Reform, 4). From a price standpoint this seems very effective and worth the cost. However, it is much more difficult to read a textbook off the computer and can harm eyesight.
A major factor in the success of technology within an education system is how it's used. Too often schools are lazy and computers sit and gather dust or programs are only used once or twice (Reform, 4). This shows that even though the potential is there for new ways to teach students it is up to the school on how well they utilize the technology they have.
Another contributing factor to the success or failure of implementing technology in a school system is the reliability of research done online. With computers so easily available it is much easier to do all research on the internet. However, anyone can post information on blogs and wikis (Blogs 2). This means that it can be extremely difficult to find correct information.
Separate from mainstream education but equally important is distance education. Distance education is when a child requires special attention in order to succeed. "Distance education revolves around a learner-centered system with teaching activity focused on facilitating learning." (Instructor's ,1) This means that a student requires a vast amount of interaction with the teacher. When technology is placed in the classroom this draws attention away from the teacher and the student begins to fall behind.
Another largely affected area is within the healthcare system. Whether a patient or a doctor, new technological devices are being used every day to cure people quicker and keep them healthier longer. "Advances in medical technology have enabled increasing numbers of both preterm infants and infants with congenital impairments to survive" (Families', 1). Children with otherwise deadly conditions are able to survive and hopefully live a normal life. In addition to technology with a person's actual ailment, technological advancements are making the hospital a much safer place.
Hospitals are adopting many information systems that are designed to help the patient receive the proper treatment while reducing human error. Hospitals and pharmacies are now able to keep extensive records about each patient and their medical history. "Decision support that has information about patients and their medicines is what makes electronic transfer of information safer" (Opportunities, 2). In addition to information systems, hospitals and pharmacies are also implementing various systems which calculate dosage and quantity. This helps regulate medicine to the patients and is very reliable because, "Virtually all hospitals have adopted unit dose and i.v. admixture systems" (Opportunities, 3). Such systems make not only hospitals a safer and more reliable resource but healthcare in general.
Both instances are very good outcomes of technology within the health profession. However, there are still drawbacks to such technologies. There are many children that have become dependent on such technologies which usually includes more than one device (Families', 2). This becomes very expensive and also painful for the child. In addition, when a child is technology dependent they usually have to be monitored most of the hours of the day (Families', 2). This means that a family must pay for on hand professional help. These costs can very easily soar in turn sending the family into debt. Also in many cases the medicine that these children and even medicine in general becomes very expensive. In many cases these medicines can be replaced by natural and less expensive medicines which are also less likely to become addicted to.
In addition to education and healthcare many businesses across the world have been affected greatly by new advancements in technology. Technology has changed the banking world in the form of 24 hour service and even the stock market (Beyond, 22). Databases can keep track of millions of files of information that can be retrieved at any moment. From a distance it appears that technology has only affected businesses in a positive way. However, there is a problem caused indirectly within the business realm. This is from the workforce. New employees do not know how to communicate with customers (Beyond, 14). The most recent generation to join the workforce did not grow up learning how to talk to strangers from a business standpoint. When they are placed in positions that require them to talk to customers and work in groups they do not know how to perform. Now companies have to hold workshops in which they must teach individuals how to speak with customers or build team qualities (Beyond, 14). This in turn wastes valuable time and money.
Part of the previous problem is due to the fact that many children are spending less and less time together and more alone or just in small groups playing video games and surfing the internet. The media and video games not only decrease social ability but also increase violence. This is first due to the problem that, "Television and other screen activities (e.g., computer games, videos, the Internet) have become highly accessible to young children" (Exposure, 1). This means that they are more likely to see and end up playing such violent video games and watching violent media. When a child is able to see so much violence it ends up changing the way they think and behave. "Fear can be instilled into the minds of children at a very young age through screen activities" (Exposure, 2). This makes them very susceptible to be influenced by anything that they see from any electronic media source. When a child starts to become influenced by this they begin to behave in relation to what they saw on television. This not only separates them from their family but also the rest of the world.
Once separated from their surroundings children begin to lose touch of what is actually important and also begin to develop bad habits and health issues.
.many adolescent boys, especially those with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder symptoms, used violent video games as a way to release anger. Interestingly, they also reported that for at least one teenager with a learning disability, proficiency at playing violent video games was a source of self-esteem and gave him more positive standing in his peer group;.(Exposure, 2)
This in turn explains the increased cases of ADHD within children across the globe. This part of technological dependency is the easiest to fix. Children can still play video games and view assorted media but it is up to the parents to regulate this. "Conversations between professionals and families about television and other screen activities can be an excellent place to examine the role that media plays in their lives" (Exposure, 4). With help from parents children can become more active and less reliant on technology to release their emotions.
In the past children used to release their emotions and aggressions by playing sports and being outdoors. "For all of history and prehistory, children spent most of their formative years in nature." (Garden, 1) This means that the change has been very recent and is still in its developmental stages. This problem going unchanged could end up being very damaging to future generations. "Today, children and teenagers are well aware of the global threats to the environment, but their physical contact, their intimacy with nature on a day-to-day basis, is fading" (Garden, 2). This shows that many of the children that are being described are so removed that they could explain what nature is but cannot describe what it feels like. This is a very important part of their development of intellect and imagination.
In addition to these developmental problems of the mind, children are experiencing many new disabilities that have not shown up in youth until recently. In the book Last child in the woods, the author describes a new disability which he calls nature deficit disorder (Garden, 2). The author uses this term to explain all of the new diseases and ailments that are occurring within children. Some of the disabilities that he is talking about are ".diminished use of the senses, attention difficulties, increased feelings of stress, higher rates of physical and emotional illnesses, and feelings of not being rooted in the world" (Garden, 2). In his argument he describes that the only way to cure such a disease as nature deficit disorder is to actual become active and spend time outdoors.
The biggest problem that is faced is that many parents claim to not have enough time to spend with their kids. This means that they use electronics to sort of baby sit their children when they are not in children. The only way to fix this is again for the parents to take the initiative to spend time with their children outdoors whether it's planting a garden of going for a weekend hike. The clear point is that something has to be done in order to have a coherent future generation that is not glued to a television, computer, or video game during all hours of the day.
Apart from the fact that technology is effecting the youth of today, the biggest problem is that we are reliant on something that can easily break or shut down. There is a key factor on every device that we depend on so much. This factor is electricity. Whether it's plugged in or run by a batter source all technological devices need power and with such reliance a disaster could literally cripple us. Every form of communication involves technology. This being the case how is anyone supposed to talk to each other in the case of a natural disaster or an attack? Even for education at NAU there are numerous problems that are encountered everyday with technology.
At NAU all grades are posted online and many classes involve online submissions of tests or papers. Even the NAU alert system is sent via email and cell phone. They only way to prevent imminent case of everything crashing is to have a backup plan. With a system that does not require technology we can be prepared for anything ranging from power failure to a virus that accidentally was opened on a main server.
As a whole people in the United States and across the world need to be able realize that technology has many benefits but also can be extremely harmful in the case of its influence and reliance. As long as people realize that we are entirely too dependent and we develop a backup plan we will be able to move forward with confidence and develop many new technological applications to assist in daily life.
