Thomas | 1
Myres Thomas
Belknap English 105
Extended Argument
4/20/09
Ever since the Ancient Greeks humans have use the method of testing on animals. The Greeks didn't realize that it would escalate to being used all over the world from then to today. This was thought to be a good idea back in their time, but they failed to realize the harm caused by their actions. Some animal testing involves misleading tests, killing, torturing, taking away their rights of life, and costing the American people tons of money to perform them. Though animal testing helps better mankind it also hurts many innocent animals.
The idea for animal testing was born in Ancient Greece. It is said that the first to perform these animal tests were Aristotle, Erasistratus, and Galen. The most famous out of these three for animal testing was Aelious Galen.
Aelious Galen was one of the most prestigious members in the medical world in Ancient Greece. Though he was a doctor, he was also a philosopher which is why he worked closely with Aristotle. People back then said "That the best Doctor is also a Philosopher."(Galen) Galen began testing on animals during the second century A.D. Galen ran tests on animals such as pigs and apes. Later in his life he eventually got the nickname of "The Father of Vivisection" which means dissection. Galen was the first person to figure out that blood travels through veins and not just anywhere throughout the body. After killing these animals to do tests Galen was able to help heal more people than many other doctors. Though he did help more people he still killed many innocent animals.
In the field of animal testing the death of the animal is a common occurrence. There are many tests that call for the animal to be dead before testing or that might kill the animal during the test. Running these sorts of tests is considered to be cruel by those who oppose them. In the United States there are an estimated 115 million animals that get tested on every year, and every year nearly 115 million die. When counting the death toll the government does not count mice, rats, or birds so we will probably never know how many animals that they actually kill each year. Animals have the same rights to live as humans do. There are so many different tests that endanger the lives of various innocent animals.
There was one very important test that involved chimpanzees. Scientists wanted to use chimps to test the effect of smoking cigarettes. This test seemed really pointless because most people already know what is going to happen if someone smokes for a long time. The scientists just set the monkey up to die a slow and painful death of lung cancer. Some people may think its funny when they see a monkey smoking a cigarette on television when in fact it is an unhealthy habit that will surely kill the ape. Many tests are very similar to this in the fact that a lot have to do with toxic chemicals.
Many tests on animals have to do with forcing chemicals on animals. Some of these tests prove to be very pointless because most of them are for products that already exist such as hair spray. There are also other chemical that are tested on animals. They test them on the animals by rubbing it on their skin, pumping them into their stomachs, and pouring it into their eyes. The effects of these tests are burning of the skin or hair loss, death, and blindness.
Performing these tests traumatizes the animals that do survive. These animals are put under so much stress due to fear that they will even die from that. Animals still feel the same as humans do when they are beaten and treated badly. They still feel pain, depression, and stress just like we do. Running these tests on animals is cruel and unnecessary because most of them have to deal with the safety of cosmetics. When tested on these animals are put through so much torture.
The point of animal testing is to try to better mankind in this world today. So why are they still torturing animals for tests that seem to be pointless. Not all products need to be tested on animals. There are many products that don't test any of their products on animals. To prove this the companies that don't test their products on animals state it right on their product. The companies that don't perform cruel tests.
Some scientists are some of the cruelest people in the world to animals. Many of them poison animals with different kinds of household products. They also do the same thing with cosmetic. They will put the product on their skin, in their eyes, and they will even make them inhale aerosol sprays. People say that these tests are made to ensure the safety of humans but if people want makeup so bad then they should test it on themselves.
A long time ago these tests used to be run on a different kind of test subject. That's right human beings. Scientists used to test these sorts of things on orphan, African Americans, G.I.'s, and gypsies. Testing on them was wrong back then and it is still wrong today. We have changed the laws to prohibit this because it was cruel to do to humans. I just don't get how it can be cruel to humans but not cruel to animals. Even though most people know that it was wrong to test on humans, people still do the exact same thing to animals. There are many videos out there on the web where people can see how these tests affect the animals. Though it might be more dangerous I think that we should use an alternative to animal testing by using computers and other technology. This has the possibility be more harmful to us humans but I think that we deserve it. If we want some special product then we should have to face the consequences ourselves and deal with the side effects.
These animals suffer more than most people would think. They do not only suffer physical harm but mental harm as well. After being torture for so long the animals start to become depressed and scared just like every other animal would. The main reason why these tests are so pointless is that the results don't usually come out the same because different animals respond to different products differently.
Animal testing can be a very inaccurate way to try to figure something out. Animals such as mice and rabbits don't usually act the same way to chemicals as humans do. I especially think that is completely pointless when they burn an animal just to see how their skin reacts even though the animal's skin is not the same as humans so it does not act the same. The same thing also happens when they test medicine and cleaning products.. Some people like to think it's the same thing, but no matter how much they think it animals will never be tiny little humans.
This picture is one of a torture rabbit after being testing. As you can see his ears are really injured from the tests that were ran on him. The scientists that were testing on him burnt its ears without any kind of anesthesia. They burnt this rabbit's ear to test its skin to see what the results would be. This is probably one of the cruelest things that I have ever witnessed, and I honestly think that only psychos do this sort of thing.
This kind of behavior in which people torture animals reminds me of serial killers. I have done reports on serial killers before and almost all of them have killed and tortured animals before they eventually moved on to humans. I'm not saying that the scientists are psycho serial killers or anything but it should really mean something to them when they realize what they are doing. They should feel really dumb when they figure out that what they are doing is actually torture and is similar to that of a psycho.
So many animals are being tortured and killed for things that don't even affect us at all. Testing makeup or hairspray on an animal can be completely useless in the research because the animals could have a bad reaction to and a human might not or vice versa. The government should just completely stop animal testing because it kills innocent animals for almost no reason and they barely help out mankind. They should either stop it completely or just stop the testing of cosmetics and other household products on them because these tests cost too much money for the American people.
Animal testing in America is a multi-billion a year industry. Every year animal testing takes so much of the taxpayer's money. Each year the government spends about 136 billion dollars just on animal testing. So when thinking about this American's pay for innocent animals to be hurt and murdered. Imagine all of the good things we could do with that money if animal testing was gone for good. We would be able to help impoverished areas in America by giving them better healthcare, school, and nutrition.
There are just so many things that we could do with an extra 136 billion dollars a year. If we were to stop animal testing then we could also bring an end to the budget cuts in Arizona University's. Having all of this extra money would definitely help out in our economic crisis and most people in America know that we would absolutely need that. But instead we are just throwing away our money so that innocent animals can be tested on then eventually killed. On average each American pays about 300 dollars a year that go to animal testing. If most people knew what their money was going to then they would probably try to avoid it. Some people even try to stop it.
One way to try to stop animal testing is to set up a protest where a group of people stand outside of a testing facility chanting and holding up signs of what they want. Protesting can be very effective when trying to prove a point. It makes people more aware to your point that you are trying to make. This also helps your cause because when your group gets bigger it also gets stronger.
In the counter argument of this topic some might say that animal testing is one of the most beneficiary things in the world today. Some supporters of testing animals that it has given us so many things such as medicine, soaps, and other household compounds that many of us use on an everyday basis. Some tests are also used to help animals as well. It is almost certain that if a cure for a deadly disease is found it would be due to the testing of animals.
Testing medicine on animals has provided us with many vaccines that are commonly used today. It has helped with such diseases as Herpes Simplex, Hepatitis B, Polio, Rabies, Malaria, and many more. It has also made many advances in the surgical field by giving us anesthesia which completely numbs the body while in surgery. Without out testing on animals we would be oblivious to many medical advances.
Many personal cleaning and makeup products are also a result of animal testing. Testing on these animals is used mainly for the safety of the consumers of the product. Most shampoos, soaps, cosmetics, and other toiletries that most of us use everyday are tested on animals first to make sure that they are safe to use because if they aren't they can sometimes cause rashes or some other kind of irritation. If companies were to put their products out in the market without testing it the chances are that they might lose all of their customers. If not tested the products could possibly form some kind of rash or sickness.
There are also a lot of tests that benefit dogs and cats. There were some tests ran that proved to get rid of heart worms. The tests seemed to work and now if someone's dog has a heart worm then they can easily be taken care of thanks to animal testing. Testing has also help pet food companies. They have helped them figure out the best nutrition for most domesticated animals so that they may be able to live longer.
The biggest benefit to testing everything on animals is that it has the potential to save lives. If we were to stop testing medical products on animals then our advances in medicine would probably not go anywhere and we would probably take an even longer time to find a cure for many lethal diseases. We already found so many different types of medicines that have helped save lives. But at the same time there are so many animals that get killed every year. The sad thing is that we think we know how many die every year but we really don't. I hope that one day we will be able to realize our mistakes and find an alternative way to test our own product without harming anyone or anything.
Honestly, I didn't realize how big of a problem animal testing was until I did this paper. All of the points such as killing, torturing, and the cost that I researched all mean a lot to me now. I just don't get how some people can be so cruel to these animals when they haven't even done anything. I have a few minor solutions that maybe the government should use.
So I have a few solutions to solve the problem for killing the animals. One is that maybe we can do what we do to humans and have their owners donate their body to science once they are already dead. Sure it may not be the same but it would definitely help out a lot and it would be more humane. Another solution to this problem is to use animals that have been bad such as dogs that attack people. This may not be that many dogs a year but I believe that it would be enough. They could reserve this short supply for when they really need for a big experiment instead of just using them for little experiments to torture them.
I also have a few solutions to torturing the animals as well. One way to solve this problem is to do some of these tests like dissection on animals that are already dead. As for the test that need a live animal we can just use the animals that have been bad once again. And when the scientists are all said and done with their experiments they should be obligated to try to take care of the animal. If the animal has been poisoned and they have seen the results that they wanted to see then they should try to care for it by either pumping its stomach or giving it some kind of medicine that isn't being tested right now but something that we all know would work. My main concern is to get the costs down.
In my opinion Americans are paying far too much for animal testing. The way to resolve this is to control where exactly their taxes are going. The ones that don't want their money to go to animal testing should have the option to not pay them and to have their money go somewhere else. To make it so that there is some money going toward this (because animal testing can still be a good thing) they should put a limit on how many people can deny paying for this cause. If we just put all of these plans into affect then science would a much happier field of work.
.
