Alicia Pe
English 105
Ms. Belknap
29 April 2009
Grades and Standards: Ultimately Proven Detrimental
Does stressing to prepare for a test that determines your eligibility to graduate sound familiar? What about worrying you will not be accepted to a university because you did not score highly enough on one test? For many students, these unknowns are constant burdens weighing down on them. It is scary to think that your whole school career is dependent on a test score and very little on what you have worked hard to accomplish throughout all of your school years. There is definitely something wrong with the current system that is used to measure a student's readiness for college work. Although good intentions stood behind the creation of standards, grades, and tests to track and evaluate a student's progress and knowledge, they have proven to be more detrimental than positive to students. Seemingly, the negative mental and emotional effects on students of our present evaluation system are worsening as our school tests and curriculums become standardized with a mentality of "one formula fits all." In fact, an individual's sense of self-worth is oftentimes affected by a letter grade he receives in school or his ranking in comparison to that of his peers, both of which are based on a set of standards. Many students find it difficult to separate the stigma attached to a bad grade they have received from their overall sense of self value as a person. This is mainly because their teachers, mentors, and parents put so much pressure on them to achieve a certain letter grade. From the beginning of a child's schooling, teachers start evaluating students. In the early years of a child's education, they give evaluations based on a number scale. The child is placed either in a category designated as "below average," a category designated as "average," or a category designated as "above average." The reality is that parents are basically trusting teachers to form judgments about their children based on standards that may not accurately reflect their children's developmental strengths and weaknesses. Thus, some sort of criteria is needed to evaluate a student's performance, but it should be individualized with the student's developmental stage and strengths and weakness considered. Rather than just attaching a standardized grade to every piece of work a student produces, teachers could better serve students by giving them suggestions for improvements and commending them on their strengths and successes. Quite simply, the question stands: Do grades really matter?
Most students have painful memories associated with a less than perfect grade they received in school. On a personal note, I remember back in tenth grade when I had a teacher that used to read off all of the students grades and test results in front of the class, names and all. Many of the students who were not at the top of the class would get extremely embarrassed when he read off their grades. I was in that boat more than once after doing poorly on a test; I was humiliated even though I was a straight A student at the top of my class throughout my whole school career. Likewise, I think that other students have similar insecurities about how smart they are compared to their classmates. High school can be especially brutal on ones self esteem during the grading periods. Many students excel in one subject but may be weak or have no interest in another. However, their weaknesses often determine their future more than their strengths. For example, if a student can't pass at least three years of math in high school, he can't meet the entrance requirements at most universities. At some schools, he can't even graduate from high school until he proves that he is competent in intermediate algebra. That same student may be a brilliant writer or artist, but he is branded "a failure" by the "system" if he can't master mathematics. In short, students often suffer emotionally when they fail in school, and oftentimes their whole future is compromised if they don't meet certain standards in every subject required by their state.
For those students who solely connect their academic performances to their self-worth, there are a wide range of consequences. These students are more vulnerable to frequent mood swings, often resulting in depression. Many act out in inappropriate ways. There are high suicide rates at many of the top academically performing universities where the expectations prove to be too grueling for some. Other students try to escape their feelings of stress and pressure by abusing alcohol and drugs. Studies show that self abusive behavior like cutting and behavior associated with eating disorders are usually linked to low self-esteem; low self-esteem among students is often linked to feelings of inadequacy. Once again, these feelings can often be traced back to the bad grades and disappointing comments that they received throughout their school years. It is quite sad to think that a portion of our country's youth will not get the chance to experience all that life has to offer because of the pressure to succeed in every academic subject. Ultimately, the main concern of educators should be to ensure the healthy, psychological well-being of their students. In an extensive study done on college students, researchers tested the effects of receiving good grades vs. receiving poor exam grades on a student's daily self-esteem. The results indicated that on average; a student's self-esteem was increased by a fair margin on good-grade days and decreased compared to their baseline markers on bad-grade days. Looking more deeply into the effects on specific students, researchers found that students who correlated their entire self-worth with their academic performance displayed bigger declines in their self-esteem. Overall, our placing too much weight on academics rather than on developing a student's strengths is often detrimental to his mental, emotional, and physical health with little to no significant benefits. Advice from the experts: students who have high expectations for themselves in academics should "[place] more emphasis on avoiding failure than obtaining success."(Crocker, Sommers, and Luhtanen, 2002)
Along with the controversial grading system come the questions dealing with the importance of standardized tests. Many wonder how a test writer can design a completely fair test so that every student has an equal chance at passing, and their ability can be accurately measured in accordance to the standards. The truth is that this feat is pretty much impossible. An illustration of this is that instructors often give multiple choice tests with questions that cover the material presented in the textbooks and lectures. The test questions often have two answers that may appear to be correct to make the question challenging. Some students have excellent tests taking skills and excel at this type of test, while others may spend too much stressing over the two similar answers. In other words, sometimes success is a measure of good test taking skills rather than knowledge of the material. Indeed, there are a lot of students that have may have mastered the assigned material in a class, but when it comes down to taking the test under a tight time constraint, they buckle under the pressure. Test anxiety can play a major role in test taking for some. If a student's mind is not in the right place before a test, despite how well he has prepared for the test, he may jeopardize his chances of doing well. If that same student was allowed to take his time on the test and given the option to answer the questions either aloud or in writing, he might have done much better. In sum, while test scores may be a useful form of evaluation at times, they certainly should not be the only evaluation of a student's performance.
There are much better ways to evaluate students than using test grades and the "one approach fits all" standards that we currently have in this country. Due to the frustration of parents, employers, and policymakers' concerning students' poor test scores and lack of general knowledge as measured by these scores, during the seventies, over thirty states installed some form of a minimum competency test (Finn 134). In the case of minorities, these tests created a tough, uphill battle to graduate from high school. Often, on the first few takes, the majority of them failed due to their being second language speakers, being unfamiliar with culturally embedded test questions, and being economically disadvantaged. In Pennington's journal, "Accelerating Advancement in School and Work," she proposes a new system for setting standards that benefits all students. She provides multiple pathways to achieve graduation composed of individualized standards and ways of approaching them for each student. Instead of having every student take the same test and meet the same qualifications, depending on the capability of the students, each student would adhere to his own set of standards and be evaluated using measures designed to assess his knowledge and abilities. She describes it as, "deliberate variability to attain greater consistency in [assessment]." The main focus of the reform is to cater to each individual student. Pennington's efforts are extremely refreshing to many because instead of trying to defend the present system by arguing why the current set standards is indisputably beneficial, she focuses on the students' needs.
Nevertheless, there are many other points of view regarding our current assessment system. Many individuals agree with researcher, Barbara Lerner, who believes that competency testing is successful because "it sets a clear standard, linked to a single test, and ties the test outcome to a powerful incentive: high school graduation." Her supporters are plentiful, especially parents who have the opportunity to watch their kids graduate. However, there is still a lot of controversy regarding what and how subject material should be taught in the classroom. Elementary school teachers in states such as North Carolina have voiced their concern with their state's modified curriculum, which is focused primarily on reading, writing and math. They argue that they have less time to teach subjects such as science, social studies, and art due to the fact that they have to spend so much time teaching only three subjects. The reason for the change in the curriculum, they are told, is that they must teach to the state assessment test. School funding is often linked to test scores. Sadly, many teachers and parents feel that the reformation of the curriculum has sucked all the creativity out of learning.
Likewise, ten years ago in the state of Virginia, the Virginia Standards of Learning (SOL) were established for students from third to twelfth grade to adhere to. Researchers interviewed 33 students in eleventh and twelfth grade on how the initiation of the SOL changed their education. Of the 33 students, 29 of them commented that the SOL was the focus of their entire learning. Summing up the majority of the students' opinions, one student commented, "SOL rides over everything. SOL rules the whole school." Another student responded, "It [the SOL] is all the teacher ever talks about." Surprisingly, these remarks came from high achieving students. In order to defend the fast instructional pace that teachers were turning to, reports were made saying, "The material was not really sticking with them, [the students] anyway," and that students "could not go into depth with things." Arguing back, the students claimed that they always felt rushed, so there was never really time to learn the material. The students' concerns corresponded directly to their teachers' setbacks. Teachers were being pressured by the school district and the state to cover every set standard in a limited amount of time so that their students would be able to perform when it came time to take the assessment tests. Therefore, classroom time was devoted to a strict curriculum, leaving no time for deep discussions or analyses on any particular part of the material. The consequence was determined to be the following: SOL has narrowed the perimeters for learning (Cauley 27).
An update: as of 2007, high school students in Virginia have to pass six end-of-course SOL tests in order to receive a standard diploma and nine tests to qualify for the advanced studies diploma.
Skeptics of the newly created standards-based-reform acts draw attention to many major concerns. Based on past failures of establishing set standards in schools, they feel that it is unlikely schools are actually remodeling their entire curriculum and ways of teaching. Instead, they feel that school systems try to create the illusion of change, when in fact; it is only an illusion surface-deep (Ogawa and Collom, 2000). Second, there is often a dull, boring aspect that goes along with teaching to a set of strict standards. If the teachers themselves do not have much interest or fervor for what they are teaching, then more often than not, the students will lack interest as well. With a teacher's creativity limited, somewhat of a ceiling is formed over the students' heads restricting their ability to obtain a higher level of knowledge. As a result, in many classrooms, students lose their drive to perform. Teachers often lose their motivation to create new, engaging lessons since so much of their time is spent writing lessons that relate to the state standards and evaluating students on those standards. For example, elementary school teachers in California are expected to evaluate every student in their classes on pages and pages of standards. For math alone, there might be fifteen different standards to evaluate. Thus, these teachers complain that they barely have enough to teach the fundamentals and have no time for giving individual attention to students or teaching subjects like art, science, and drama. The pressure on elementary teachers is so great in California that Kindergarten teachers are now expected to have every student reading before he or she can be promoted to first grade, regardless of his or her developmental stage. As a result, many students that would probably be reading just fine by the end of first grade and doing fine in the subsequent grades are being held back and forced to repeat Kindergarten. Those students feel the stigma of failing Kindergarten, and some may carry the embarrassment with them past Kindergarten. Often these students are the ones who lack motivation in school.
In brief, our current system of using standardized assessments can be very harmful to students for a number of reasons. Perhaps most importantly are the negative emotional effects that plague many kids who don't always fit into the mold that educators want them to fit into. Some don't test well, and many are not talented in every academic subject in school. With the current grading methods, we are teaching students that they are failures in one way or another. As a result, many students act out in destructive, self abusive ways as their self esteem plummets. In addition, many students are being denied a college education simply because they did poorly on the SAT test or because they failed a math class. Who knows how many talented musicians and artists were turned away from universities because their GPA was too low. How many of those same talented students gave up their passions and denied the world their gift? In my opinion, we need to do better in this country. We need to find a way to build on students' individual strengths, not dwell on their weaknesses. We must find a way to assess students' performance in a way that meets their needs. That might mean giving oral tests, putting no time restrictions on tests, or maybe even doing away with tests. In other words, we need to change the way that we assess student success.
Pe 2
