Should High Schools Distribute Condoms?
STDs are common among young people. One in four new STDs occurs in teenagers (Facts You Should Know About Sexual Transmitted Disease and Staying Healthy). Fifty-six percent of teenagers 12 to 17 years of age think STDs are a big problem for people their age (Facts You Should Know About Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Staying Healthy). If High Schools were to distribute condoms it would help these STDs rate decrease. With all these new STDs occurring, High Schools have started to use programs that make condoms available to them. Since Students may lack the information they need to know about these STD rates and condom use and how to properly use them, open their minds up to asking question, these programs can help the students learn more about them.
Condoms are an effective method of protection. There are two types of condoms, latex and polyurethane. The best type of condoms to use would be the ones made with latex because these condoms prevent the spread of STDs. Latex condoms are highly effective barriers to HIV when used correctly. Latex condoms are more reliable. They can only be used with water based lubricants. If used correctly the likelihood of breakage is very small. The other type of condom is polyurethane which is made of a type of plastic. They are thinner than latex so they increase sensitivity and are more agreeable in feel and appearance to some users. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) defines consistent use of condoms as using a condom at every act of sexual intercourse. Correct use means using undamaged, unexpired condoms, using only water-based lubricants, careful opening of the package, correct placement and use throughout intercourse, and correct removal of the condom after ejaculation. Most breakage occurs due to incorrect use. Studies of condoms in the U.S. have shown less than a 2 percent breakage rate. A study of 123 couples where one partner had HIV, and the other did not (sero-discordant couples) found that none of the uninfected partners who reported consistent condom use during the study became infected.
A study of New York's City school condom availability program found a significant increase in condom use among sexually activity students but no increase in sexual activity. A World Health Organization Review of students on sexuality education found that access to counseling and contraceptive services did not encourage earlier or increased sexual activity. There are many different ways the students could get access to the condoms. Some ways are by the school nurse, teachers, councilors, health workers, principals, bowls or baskets, vending machines, and students. 10 percent of students with condom availability programs, students may receive counseling. Some of the schools, make counseling mandatory for condom receipt. Counseling commonly includes information on abstinence, instruction on proper storage, and use of condoms and sometimes a demonstration on using condoms. In 1993 New York City surveyed parents of public high schools and found that 69 percent stated that they should have access to condoms in schools. In 1992 Gallup poll found that 68 percent of adults surveyed that condoms should be available in the schools. A separate survey of high school seniors showed 81 percent agreed. In 1995 of Denver high school students, 85 percent supported condom availability in their school (Douglas, Kirby.) With all these surveys it shows that most students would prefer to have condoms available.
A high school in the Los Angeles County uses the condom availability program. The program began in April of 1992. The students took a survey before the program started and were asked many questions. One of the questions was if they have had sexual intercourse. It was reported that 52 percent of males and 48 percent of females have. They program gave out plastic bags with 2 condoms and a note saying "condoms are not 100% effective in preventing AIDs/HIV, sexually transmitted diseases or pregnancy during sexual intercourse. Abstinence Is! Not all teenagers are sexually active. Think before you act. The consequences may be for a life time." (Douglas, Kirby) During the first year of the program between 1,800 to 2,000 condom bags were taken. After a year of using the programs the students took another survey asking them the same questions. And it was reported that 50 percent of both male and females had sexual intercourse since the program (Douglas, Kirby.) by seeing the results of the program, you can see that having condoms available to students it does not increase their sexual behavior.
There were some researchers that used the sampling from the 1995 Massachusetts Youth Risk Behavior Survey to obtain a sample of students enrolled in high schools. They randomly recruited 4,166 students completed an anonymous survey that asked them about HIV/AIDs education they have received in school, and their sexual behavior, including how many partners they have had and if they used a condom. There were 21 percent of students who had condoms available to them and 79 percent who did not have the program. 72 percent of sexually active participants in schools with condom availability programs reported using condoms the last time they had intercourse compared to the 56 percent of sexually active participants in schools without condom availability programs. The researchers determined that participants in schools with condom availability programs received greater range of HIV/AIDs and condom instruction education then participants in schools without condom availability programs. This is important because it shows that when students receive information about HIV/AIDs or STDs they know more and want to use condoms. Making condoms available in high schools would help reduce the HIV/AIDs and STD rate.
If condoms were available to students it would help them feel more comfortable. They could have a more open mind knowing there are people to talk to and can get their questions answered. Some students may feel too embarrassed to go to the store and purchase condoms. If they are trying to buy them in the store they may feel like they are being singled out or judged. By having the programs in schools it does not pertain to one student as it would at a store but rather as a whole. Students can feel more comfortable knowing there are not the only ones needing condoms. It could be possible that if they feel too embarrassed to buy them in the store that they might not use one at all. If they don't use one at all they are giving themselves that much higher of a risk or catching an STD. Having the students get the condoms at school it makes them feel like they have more privacy when the can ask their nurse or teacher, etc.
Although some people may think that distributing condoms is a good thing there are also some people who may have a different opinion. Distributing condoms in high schools can lead to students thinking having sex is okay. There are many different high schools that distribute condoms. IN a study conducted by the Allen Guttmacher Institute in April 1999, researchers found that 106 out of every 10,000 females between the ages of 15-19 years old had been pregnant, had had a miscarriage, or had an abortion within the previous years. (Lawrence, Harvey) By having the programs distribute the condoms some people may think that it will lead to more females getting pregnant or having abortions.
There are many different reasons why condoms should not be distributed. One reason would be the cost. If the high schools have to purchase the condoms it would eventually add up and cost too much throughout the years. The school would be promoting kids to have sex even though it is safe sex and the best way to prevent pregnancies is abstinence (Lawrence, Harvey). It could also be a potential offense to religious/groups and be forced to financially support a program they consider morally objectionable (Lawrence, Harvey). If over all sexual activity increases as the result of encouraging "safe sex" the number of people occasionally engaging in risky behavior will increase and the risk of these problems spreading will increase with it (Minch, Dr. Kevin J).
With the debates on distributing condoms, it is starting to lead to parents getting the school system involved to get rid of condom availability in their children's school. They cite such reasons as the fundamental right to remain free from governmental interference with the child rearing, their rights to familial privacy, parental liberty, and religious freedom. Some decisions that the schools made were to allow the availability of condoms but also allowing parents to request that their child not be able to receive condoms. The decision on having condoms available to the students is based on what the administration decides (Reising, Michelle.)
In conclusion, condoms should be available in high schools. The main reasons they should be available is because it promotes safe sex. It helps reduce the risks of STDs. The high schools have programs they use which help students learn more about condoms. The students can learn about what types there are and which are right for them. It also gives them more information and help students open up to ask to ask more questions. Students can feel less embarrassed and feel more comfortable getting the condoms. The programs have proven that distributing condoms do no increase sexual activity. There have been many researches done that have proven that having condoms are successful when distributed in high schools. It lowers the STD rates and prevents students from getting pregnant. Although there are many reasons as to why they should not be available but overall distributing condoms is very successful.
