Dunphy 1
Ashton Dunphy
J. Belknap
English 105
4/8/2009
Video Game Violence Effect on Children
Violent video games are popular with male and female children, adolescents, and adults. They have been successfully marketed to youth and are easily obtained regardless of age. Youths between the ages of 8 and 18 spend more than 40 hours per week using some type of media, not counting school or homework assignments (Anderson 354). Television is most frequently used, but electronic video games are rapidly growing in popularity. Violent video games came of age in the 1990s, with the advent of 16-bit graphics that the fluid depiction of blood and more realistic depiction of killing was possible (Porter 422). One of the first violent video games was Mortal Kombat, which featured a decapitation sequence which led to US Congressional hearings giving the entertainment industry 1 year to devise its own rating system before Congress intervened (Porter 422). Other common games were Street Fighter, and Wolfenstein 3D, Call to Duty (as seen in figure 1), Resident Evil, and Grand Theft Auto. In all of these games, the main task is to wound or kill opponents. Even with this, the rise of violent video game production has not stopped. From the mid-1990s, a new genre of video game known as the 'first shooter' emerged with the player placed in an interactive 3-dimensional
Dunphy 2
environment similar to the 'virtual reality' simulators of the same decade (Porter 423). With the simultaneous rise of the internet since this time, players in 'first person shooters' are now able to kill one another or virtual opponents online with high levels of depicted blood, violence, and gore. Numerous educational, nonviolent strategy and sports games exist, but the most heavily marketed and consumed games are violent ones. Fourth-grade girls (59%) and boys (73%) report that the majority of their favorite games are violent ones (Anderson 354). The popularity of violent video games has raised concern for many, and it has been suggested that playing these games may affect children in meaningful, lasting, and harmful ways.
Figure 1. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
Dunphy 3
Recent school shootings by boys with a history of playing violent video games, at Bethel, AL; Paducah, KY; Jonesboro, AR; and Littleton, CO, have instigated public debate about the role played by this relatively new entertainment medium (Anderson 354). The 1993 game 'Doom' belonged to the 'first person shooter' genre and was played by Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold before they went on a shooting rampage at Columbine High School in 1999, killing 12 fellow student and one teacher, before committing suicide(Porter 423). The two killers had mentioned the game in a video they made before the massacre, stating it would be "just like Doom". Families of victims, parent groups, and solicitors have been quick to lay the blame on violent video games, with a number of court cases filed against software developers and their distributors. A large body of related media research suggests that exposure to media violence contributes to a general desensitization to real-life violence, as well as the increased likelihood of aggression. Violent media increases aggression by teaching observers how to aggress, by priming aggressive cognitions, by increasing arousal, or by creating an aggressive affective state (Anderson 355). Long-term effects also involve learning processes. From infancy, humans learn how to perceive, interpret, judge, and respond to events in the physical and social environment. Various types of knowledge structures for these tasks develop over time. Each violent-media episode is essentially one more learning trial. As these knowledge structures are rehearsed, they become more complex, differentiated, and difficult to change.
Ironically, the same parents who take great pains to keep their children from witnessing violence in the home and neighborhood often do little to keep them from viewing large
Dunphy 4
quantities of violence on television, in movies, and in video games. Teens in grades 8 through 12 reports that 90% of their parents never check the ratings of video games before allowing their purchase, and only 1% of the teens' parents had ever prevented a purchase based on its ratings (Anderson 354). Parents get a constant stream of mixed messages about video games. On one hand they are told by the industry to pay attention to the ratings. On the other hand the industry denies that any of these games are harmful. So what parents hear is: "Pay attention to the ratings, but it really doesn't matter if you do." Video games that are appropriate for all children are rated "E10+" for everyone over 10 years old, and "T" for Teen, or kids aged 13 years and up. For kids over 17, M-rated titles may be appropriate. All of these ratings are shown in figure 2. Some adolescents may say that these rating are not necessary, that they should be able to play any of the games that they want, although this is incorrect. Since Children and adolescents brains are still developing during this time, the violence that they see on the video game can cause them to be aggressive, and imitate what they see. Parental controls are available on all new video game platforms letting parents exercise even greater control over the games their children play. And when it comes to games that are played over an internet connections, being informed about the tools at your disposal can be crucial to ensuring that your children are safeguarded from inappropriate content and encounters with other players that some would prefer they avoid. When graphic sex, extreme violence, and the glamorization and codification of disrespect for the most basic of norms that make up human decency are involved in a product that children can use and learn from. Parents need to be a part of the decision making process.
Dunphy 5
Figure 2. Ratings for video games
There are three types of study designs, experimental, correlation, and longitudinal, to assess whether exposure to violent video games is related to aggressive or violent behavior. Experimental studies on individuals in laboratory environments have demonstrated short-term increased levels of physiological arousal, hostile feelings, hostile attitudes and aggressive behavior following sessions of playing violent video games compared to non-violent video games (Porter 423). Investigators measure arousal using parameters such as blood pressure and heart rate, while hostile feelings and hostile attitudes are typically assessed by means of self-report instruments such as the State Hostility Scale. Aggressive behavior is evaluated indirectly, because its actual manifestations between participants cannot be permitted on ethical grounds. Correlation studies involve participants retrospectively filling in survey forms in order to identify patters of video game use in relation to personality and behavior. While correlation studies have the limitation of recall bias, they have demonstrated a significant relationship between exposure to violent video games, trait hostility, and aggressive or antisocial behavior. There has only been one published longitudinal study on effects of video
Dunphy 6
game violence showing that exposure to violent video games was related to increased aggressive behavior. However, participants in this study were also exposed to other forms of media violence, which is the obvious methodological limitation.
There was a study done that examined how video-game violence affects deliberate decisions to behave cooperatively or competitively and expectations about how other individuals will behave. They used a modified version of the game Doom to examine competitive and cooperative decision making. The matrix is designed so that if participants do not trust their partners, they should choose the option labeled "Y" (the withdrawal option). If participants do trust their partners and want to cooperate, they should choose the option labeled "X" (the cooperation option). If participants trust their partners but want to exploit them, they should choose the option labeled "Z" (the defection option). In the nonviolent version of the game, participants were asked to find the end of a three-dimensional maze. In the violent version of the game, participants were asked to find the end of the same three-dimensional maze, but weapons and simple computer-controlled opponents were also introduced. The study showed that playing violent video games may have negative effects on social behavior, decisions to cooperate or compete with other individuals in high-stakes satiations, and may undermine prosocial and altruistic motivation and promote competitive behavior in deliberate decision making. Participants in the violent condition were more likely than those in the nonviolent condition to exploit that trust and choose to defect. This pattern
Dunphy 7
suggests that playing a violent video game may have an effect on cooperative behavior independent of alterations in the perceptions of other people's motives.
Studies conducted so far have not controlled completely for confounding variables, such as genetic predisposition, socioeconomic status, violence in the home, substance abuse and psychiatric disorders (Porter 425). Therefore, it is not known to what extent these factors may contribute to aggressive behavior of children, adolescents, and adults, who have been playing violent video games.
Some children are especially vulnerable to exposure to violent video games because of pre-existing characteristics. This high risk group includes young children, children who are bullies, victims, or bully-victims, and children with problems in emotion regulation (Anderson 353). For these children, playing violent video games may impair both cognitive and emotional functioning. Younger children's moral scaffolding is a work in progress; therefore they are more susceptible to negative impact from violent video games than older children (Sheese 355). The reason that bullies and victims can be considered "high risk" is that they already have many negative characteristics which may be strengthened by playing violent video games, in which the view is that violence is fun and the right way to solve problems, low empathy, low guilt, and insensitivity to victims. Individuals who constantly seek stimulation have problems with emotion regulation. It has been proposed that some stimulation-seeking children may become addicted to playing video games. This immersion may sometimes provoke a real-life aggressive
Dunphy 8
response from the player. As one girl said about her experience playing a violent game: "I scream at these things. I can't help it" (Sheese 356).
Although much concern and research regarding video game play has focused on male players, over 40% of the gaming market is now estimated to be female (Eastin 351). Research indicates that male and females do not differ when responding to violent content. Given the increase in female game play, society may soon be faced with an increase in violence among young women who gravitate toward violent games.
Violent video games have been shown to increase aggression, and decrease social behavior in children and teens that play them. This can lead to violent behaviors towards peers and adults in the child's life. The message that violence is necessary, fun, acceptable and without negative consequences has become the norm in violent media, and particularly in violent video games. This message can be changed.
