School's Responsibility 1
Schools to Provide Nutritious Meals for Students
There is little doubt that this country is currently suffering from an epidemic so wide spread that it either directly or indirectly affects every person. There is one group in particular that is suffering the most, and that is children. Childhood obesity has more than "doubled for preschool-aged children and adolescents, and tripled for children ages 6-11" (Obesity, 2005). Numerous studies have been completed in an attempt to determine the main causes of this deadly disease. These studies conclude that the combination of overwhelming inactivity, excessive eating, genetic inheritance, and environmental factors are to blame for this upward trend in obesity. Of these factors, there is one that can be directly and immediately attacked, and that is excessive and unhealthy eating. It should be the primary job of a guardian to raise a healthy and successful child, however it has been found that parents are not doing what they need to in order to insure this. Therefore, it is the job of schools to provide healthy and nutritious meals to children.
As of 2005, there were "approximately nine million children over the age of six years old that were considered obese" (Obesity, 2005). The term "Childhood Obesity" is used to describe an individual who is between the ages of two and eighteen years of age who falls above the 95th percentile of the "age-and gender-specific BMI charts developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"(Obesity, 2005). Unfortunately, this upward trend in childhood obesity is not slowing down or even showing signs of
School's Responsibility 2
stabilizing, as can be seen in figure 1.
Figure 1: Adopted from Food Marketing and Childhood Obesity by Nestle, Marion.
According to the Institute of Medicine, in the year 2005 around 18 % of children were considered obese. Thirty-two years earlier, this number was 4 %. Not only is the prevalence of this disease getting worse by the year in terms of numbers of those suffering, but the distribution of body-mass index has shifted in a skewed fashion,
meaning that "the heaviest children at any given time, that are at the greatest risk of complications, have become even heavier" (Ebbeling, 2002). Obesity is a problem in and of itself by virtue of being an unnecessary and unnatural strain on the body, but there many other medical and emotional problems that can result.
School's Responsibility 3
The top medical concerns are Type 2 diabetes, which is defined as "a chronic (lifelong) disease marked by high levels of sugar in the blood, beginning when the body does not respond correctly to insulin, a hormone released by the pancreas" by the Medical Encyclopedia, high blood pressure, sleep apnea, menstrual abnormalities in
females, and orthopedic problems (Obesity, 2005). This is not all. It has been found that obesity affects nearly every part of the child's body, which is shown in figure 2.
Figure 2: Adopted from Teen and Childhood Obesity.
School's Responsibility 4
In addition, many obese children will face low self-esteem and negative body image issues, depression, negative stereotyping, discrimination, teasing, and bullying. According to Ebbeling from The Lancet, "Overweight children as young as age 5 can
develop a negative self-image, and obese adolescents show declining degrees of self-esteem associated with sadness, loneliness, nervousness, and high-risk behaviors." Schools can help to stop so many of these problems by simply teaching and implementing good nutritional values with students.
Many may question why the decision should not just be left up to the parents, but they are the one's doing this to their children. As Nestle explains in her article from the New England Journal of Medicine, "at least 30 percent of the calories in the average child's diet are derived from sweets, soft drinks, salty snacks, and fast food, and soft drinks account for more than 10 % of the caloric intake." And where are they receiving these items? From their parents. It is often assumed that since the parent or primary guardian loves the child, that they would automatically be providing appropriate and healthier lunches to their children. This has been disproved on numerous occasions. Birch, from the Journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics, has stated that quite often children learn to eat based on what their parents/guardians are eating. In addition to simply learning eating habits from watching parents, children are "predisposed to reject new foods and to have a preference for sweet tastes, salty tastes, and the rejection of sour and bitter tastes based on their parents" (Birch, 1997). This means that if a parent is eating poorly, it is quite likely that their children are as well. If the parent is not aware of how to feed themselves correctly, it would be fair to assume that they do not have the
School's Responsibility 5
knowledge to feed their child appropriately. If the decision on what to eat is left up to the school, the child will be surrounded by good healthy options, and will most likely
develop a liking for these new foods, which they otherwise would not have been introduced to.
In a study done by Rogers from the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition, similar discoveries were found. He conducted a 3-day long survey of six-hundred and twenty-one children from an average public elementary school. He proceeded to record whether the students were eating packed lunches, or buying the school foods, and then he analyzed all of the national food-based guidelines for children in that age group. These
guidelines included the "recommended calorie intake, maximum desirable levels of fat, saturated fat, non-milk added sugars, and minimum levels of protein, dietary fiber, and vitamins and minerals" (Rogers, 2007).
The findings were shocking. On average, students who were eating only school-provided lunches were receiving more protein, fruits, vegetables, minerals, and vitamins, less total fat, saturated fat, trans fats, and sugar. In addition, "the five most commonly consumed foods in packed lunches were white bread, fat spreads, crisps, sweet biscuits, and fruit." While the study eventually concluded that neither the packed lunches, nor the school lunches, provided what the children needed, it was very clear that the school lunches were closer to meeting the dietary guidelines than those foods packed by parents.
Although it is clear that having parents provide healthy foods is not the best option, it is not to say that schools do not need to clean up their acts as well. It is becoming more necessary every year for educational establishments to get "nutrition make-overs" in order to meet the necessary dietary guidelines. One such school is the
School's Responsibility 6
Appleton Central Alternative Charter High School. This school was "founded as a refuge for severely at risk students in grades 10-12 who were continually disruptive in class, frequently truant, struggled with psychological and emotional problems, and/or came
from dysfunctional home environments" (Appleton, 2004). Originally, this school did not provide any sort of a meal program to their students. The only options that were
offered were foods and drinks from the vending machines, which students could buy during short breaks throughout the day. These foods included sodas, candy bars, chips, etc. While this system was in place, the staff often noted that the students had worse behavior after consuming these foods. That is when the school's principal was approached by a representative from The Nutrition and Wellness Program, who was
looking for a school to award their "Peak Performance" grant to. They decided to give the grant to the Appleton school in recognition of the high quality of "caring for students' mental, emotional, and physical health." The school was offered an experimental program to provide students with a "healthy and natural breakfast and lunch" at a reduced price or for free if the students could not afford it. The breakfasts included whole grain breads, granola, low-fat milk, and energy juices while the lunches consisted of "a fresh entree, fresh fruit, a salad bar, whole grain breads, low-fat cookies for dessert, and an energy juice or milk."
After these new foods and guidelines were implemented and in place for a couple of months, teachers were to take surveys and ask the students how they felt about the changes. "The students generally accepted the changes with a simple explanation from a nutritional standpoint." In addition, the staff pointed out that the "students' disruptive behavior and health complaints diminished substantially, they seemed more able to
School's Responsibility 7
concentrate, there was a considerable decrease in impulsive behaviors such as talking out and use of foul language, there were fewer disciplinary referrals to the office, and the students were able to cover a greater amount of material at a more challenging level" (Appleton, 2004). The great thing about systems such as this one being implemented is
that it can reach so many students at a time. If the decision is made by a parent to provide healthy foods, it will impact only a single, or maybe a few, children at a time. If
the school is the one providing healthy food alternatives, hundreds or even thousands of students will be affected positively.
Genevieve Clayton is a student at Northern Arizona Uinversity who attended the Glynn Academy for high school in Brunswick, Georgia. Her school implemented a similar program for their students. In a personal interview, Clayton stated that the school
"took away all the white flour and sugar from the school and the vending machines, and replaced all soda and drinks with the diet options." She felt that although not all the students opted to eat the school lunches or the healthy options that they provided, it did make many students more aware of how to make nutritious choices. That is the key. As long as the students are receiving healthy meals, in addition to being taught about how to make healthy decisions, this problem will decrease rapidly. "I did not agree with what they were doing at first, but after time I was grateful because if I did not want to bring lunch I still had healthy choices at school."
Although parents care immensely about their children, and this is not being questioned, they are simply not educated enough on nutrition to be providing their kids with appropriate meals. When left to their own devices, parents are sending their children into school with meals that are full of sugared sodas, candy, white bread, and fat,
School's Responsibility 8
leading to the sharp increase in childhood obesity over the past few decades. If the decision of what to feed children is left up to schools, and those schools have undergone their "make-over" to meet dietary guidelines, the number of children suffering from obesity will drop dramatically. In addition to simply feeding children the correct foods, schools need to be providing classes on nutrition. The more knowledgeable this
generation becomes, the more information they can pass on to future generations. Let's stop childhood obesity in its tracks.
