These "Tricks" Aren't for Kids
Prostitution is not seen as slavery, instead many view it as some lowlife profession only done by "those people" in "that part of town". In reality, sex trafficking does not occur only overseas-it also happens right here in the United States. In fact, Phoenix, Arizona is the hub for sex trafficking in the United States. The majority of those succumbed into the sex industry are not young women, but young girls. The average age of entry into prostitution is 13 years old (USDOJ). Approximately 300,000 children in the United Sates are deceived into becoming a sex slave. Often, they do not know they are being enticed by a pimp however.
Chip Burrus, the FBI Deputy Assistant Director and founder of the Lost Innocent project focusing on child sex trafficking observes that, "'These predators are particularly adept at reading children, at reading kids, and knowing what their vulnerabilities are'" (ABC). The director of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, Ernie Allen, reiterates the idea that it certainly is not uncommon for children to be lured into the sex trade (ABC). Prostitution is not just done by "those people" in "that part of town" or just in places overseas such as Cambodia, but often done by children in places like Phoenix, AZ. Prostitution needs to remain illegal, for the sake of the children and the United States.
The United States Department of State defines sex trafficking as the "recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act" (USDOS). A commercial sex act is equivalent to prostitution. Pimps obtain prostitutes by recruiting and harboring a person for the purpose of prostitution. Therefore, according to the United States department of state, sex trafficking is equivalent to the business of prostitution managed by a pimp.
One must first understand the terms in order to understand the problem. The Oxford American dictionary defines each term in a clear way. Prostitution: "the practice or occupation of engaging in sexual activity with someone for payment." John: "a prostitute's client." Brothel: "a house where men can visit prostitutes." Pimp: "a man who controls prostitutes and arranges clients for them, taking part of their earnings in return." Together, the four can combine into a scary and disturbing combination.
Many pimps brand, not tattoo, but brand, (Figure 1) their prostitutes to make it clear whom they work for. To be branded is to be marked indelibly. In order to brand someone, one must heat up a wire and press it firmly against the skin in order to leave a permanent mark. The placing of the brand varies-some pimps do the placing on the forearm, some on the back of the neck.
Usually, the young girls are lured with promises of money, clothing, modeling, or some type of job (Figure 2). Miya, a 19-year-old from Phoenix, story was told in an ABC news story of just that happening.
One day when she was working, she was approached by a young woman and a well-dressed man. "He asked if it would be out of place if he said I was pretty," Miya said. "I was like, 'No.' I mean, it was a compliment."
The man was charming and had a flattering offer for Miya.
"He said that he was a model agent, [that] he was looking for new models in the area," she said. "It's not like something I've been wanting to do or anything, but, I mean, it was ... it seemed interesting."
Taken by the idea of modeling and making extra money, Miya agreed to meet the couple that night at a local restaurant.
"They said they were on their way to California to go back to their office and they were going to do some more photo shoots, and they wanted me to go along with them," Miya said. "He said that I could probably make about a thousand or more. ... He said I could try it for three days. ... And so I went with them."
The next morning Miya was thrilled when the couple took her to have her hair, makeup and nails done. At that point, she said she had no idea she was not being made over for a photo shoot but for a much more insidious reason. Later, when the couple began taking pictures, Miya said she became alarmed.
"They used just a cheap camera you can buy, the throwaway," she said. "And they said once we get to California that we would be at a photo shoot, and that they'd be using, uh, some really good equipment, they'd have makeup artists and stuff like that."
Miya said she didn't know what happened to those pictures until later, when she arrived in California with the couple. "He showed me a Web site that he put them up on," she said. "And it was an escort service site" (ABC news).
Miya's story diminishes the thought that the only people involved in the sex trade want it. If freedom is the freedom to choose, that freedom should extend to girls like Miya. It could be argued that the "modeling agents", or pimps, gave her the choice and did not just immediately abduct her, but it can be retorted that Miya was given an unfair choice and was truly lured and taken advantage of. Miya then became the property of the pimps when she accepted their offer.
Some stories aren't quite like Miya's. Annie Lobert (Figure 3), founder of Hookers for Jesus and former prostitute and escort, sought the prostitution lifestyle herself. "I was always chasing just to belong, hungry for acceptance, just to be loved. When I gave myself sexually to men, for that brief moment, I felt 'wanted' and 'needed'..." (Annie). When Annie first started out in the sex industry she did not hate it, on the contrary, she actually loved it. She felt glamorous and powerful. With the money, traveling, famous people calling, it was so surreal (Annie).
Out of Annie's eleven years of partaking in the sex industry, five of them included a pimp-a pimp whom she fell in love with and wanted to prove her love to and was determined to prove that he really loved her. This is not an uncommon story, many girls end of falling in love with their pimp and desire to prove their love to him and vice versa. In Annie's case, she was convinced that it was better for both of them if he got all the money, rather than sharing the profits. Her pimp repeatedly told her that they would one day retire and get married and never have to deal with this lifestyle again and bask in wealth and happiness (Annie). Pimps influence and leave marks on their prostitutes-whether it is physical through branding, or emotional with promises of a "happy ever after" ending.
It is argued that prostitution is a win-win-win situation-that the prostitute receives sex and money, the john receives sex, and the pimp manages clients, meaning he has savvy business skills. Sex is a skill and it utilizes other savvy techniques in order to make money. Freud came up with a structural model involving the id, ego, and superego. The id is the pleasure principle-the idea that impulses should be gratified immediately (Carver & Scheier, 2008, p. 170), and sex is an instinctual drive. The ego follows the reality principle-taking into account reality along with internal needs. It's not necessarily moral, but focuses on practicality. The superego seeks moral perfection. Using Freud's structural model, one can apply prostitution to it. The id would want to have sex and would desire money. The superego uses the conscious to determine if a behavior is deemed bad or not. And the ego would be practical and try to satisfy the needs: Sell sex for money. One would get their physical needs satisfied and you get money, which can satisfy their physiological needs. It's both practical and sensical.
The ego can justify the need for sex based on the idea of neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters, such as serotonin and dopamine, are chemicals that send messages along nerve pathways. When the levels of serotonin are low, depression can occur, while dopamine increases with rewards and sex and is related to being able to hold larger amounts of information in working memory (Carver & Scheier, 2008, p. 132-3). When people have sex, it is less likely that they will be depressed because of the serotonin and dopamine released in the brain, increasing in happiness. Johns can overcome loneliness by having a partner who will satisfy their sexual desires. Not only will they have satisfied their physical desires, but also the increase of dopamine and serotonin will be beneficial to him. And by him paying, he is not only helping himself, but also helping the prostitute because of her need for that money in order to meet her physiological needs. However, Annie reminds people that,
Women are NOT robots, we do not enjoy the 'sex' acts, nor slavery that comes with selling your body...we have feelings and cannot just "shut them down" while we are/were prostitutes/strippers. We hurt, we bleed, and we cry...we are sisters, mothers, daughters, friends, cousins, nieces, LITTLE GIRLS. Sex for money is NOT pleasurable, it is NOT fun, us girls DO NOT enjoy it--in fact there were many times I just wanted to hurt the man that was touching me! This is why it was easy for me to be a dominatrix... I had to be the best actress all of time just to make sure I got paid--men actually thought I enjoyed what I did (Annie).
There are two important mathematical terms: cost and worth. The cost of something is the amount that must be paid in order to obtain something. Worth is the value of something, or importance of something (Dictionary). While selling skills or selling one's own body may come at a high cost to the john, perhaps the worth and legitimate value far outweighs the cost. It may have taken Annie quite a few years to realize that she was worth more than nickels and dimes, however she eventually realized her worth. A worth that all girls and women trapped in the sex industry possess.
Abuse plays a major toll in the sex industry (Figure 4). The majority of the prostitutes, about 82%, are abused through physical assault and denial of food done by clients, pimps, and other people who one may encounter in the sex industry.
Bill Gates once said, "The Internet will help achieve 'friction free capitalism' by putting buyer and seller in direct contact and providing more information to both about each other" (Quotes). One of the easiest ways to hire an escort is off of the Internet-providing that contact between buyer (the john) and seller (usually the pimp) just as Gates predicted. There are a plethora of escort sites. However, there is one popular site that makes it unremarkably easy to access prostitutes in Phoenix-craigslist.com. By going to the site and clicking under the United States column Arizona Phoenix erotic. Below (Figure 5) are just a few of the hits found on this site, showing the lack of difficulty it is for one to find a prostitute with just a few clicks.
Many argue that if prostitution were to be legalized, the government could benefit from it and it could make prostitution safer. If prostitution were to be legalized, the place it would take place would be a brothel house, where men visit prostitutes. Making it legal would allow the government to put rules and regulations on brothel houses and prostitutes, keeping the individuals safer from johns as well as sexually transmitted diseases. Being a legitimate business, the government could then impose a tax, bringing in more revenue for the country. "Legalizing prostitution also would increase revenue for the government, as the prostitutes' earnings would be taxed" (Belgium). Currently, many people are unemployed or have recently been laid off. It has already been shown that sex can increase happiness and deplete the amount of depression one would have from being laid off or not having a job, and being a legitimate business would provide more jobs and stimulate a strong new market.
This is a valid argument, however once again one must refer to cost vs. worth. Is it worth the cost? Is the lack of protection in the sex trafficking industry worth it? Our government serves to protect us. In the Gettysburg Address, Abraham Lincoln defined the government to be a "government of the people, by the people, for the people" (Gettysburg). Prostitution is illegal now, yet it still happens and there are many shady businesses that still operate under the government's watch. Perhaps legalizing prostitution would soften the current startling statistics, but that will not make all the problems in prostitution go away. Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) are commonly passed due to the absence of a condom. "Your risk is higher if you have had many sex partners, have had sex with someone who has had many partners or have had sex without using condoms" (Family). Each of those, which increase one's risk to an STI, is commonly practiced in the sex industry. Approximately 50% of the prostitutes are either never allowed or very rarely allowed to use a condom and 46% regularly do, but not always.
More than just poor people who feel like they do not have any other options take part in sex trafficking. Children also participate in it and many are from middle or high-class families. Prostitution is equivalent to slavery, sex slavery and it happens in the United States, especially in Phoenix, Arizona. By legalizing prostitution, the government would be saying that prostitution is okay. Just because there are limitations and guidelines does not change the basic charge. By prostitution remaining illegal, the United States government is standing firm in their belief that regardless of how many guidelines are put onto it, sex trafficking causes branding on women, emotional scarring, and physical pain. Sex trafficking must remain illegal, as children and safety must come first. Sex trafficking brands girls for life.
