Dawnylle Smith
Kacie Beagen
Prospectus and Annotated Bibliography
The San Francisco Peaks rise to a height of 12,000 feet, and is located just north of Flagstaff. This mountain is used as a recreational resource for the Arizona Snowbowl ski resort, and is also of great significance to over 22 Native American tribes who find this place to be sacred and holy. In the past, the construction of the Snowbowl ski resort had created a great dispute between the Native Americans, the Snowbowl owners and Forest Services. Once again, disagreement between the groups has arisen due to the proposal of the extension of the ski resort and the usage of reclaimed water to create synthetic snow on the slope of the San Francisco Peaks.
Depending on the amount of snowfall, the Arizona Snowbowl ski resort attracts approximately 30,000 to 180,000 tourists, thus, leading to the proposal to use reclaimed water to make snow so the skiing season may be lengthened. The recurring issue stated by the Native Americans is that the reclaimed sewage water is a desecration to the mountain and goes against their freedom to practice their own religion. The reclaimed water proposal also attracted attention to the chemicals that cannot be removed from the water, which raised the concern of the mountain being contaminated by these chemicals.
I am a Native American that too finds the mountain sacred; however, I would like to see both sides of this ongoing issue. Therefore, I gathered information from the NAU Cline library, databases, and from the Arizona Snowbowl website to fully understand the issue at hand. My main point will be that the ski resort should carry out its proposal; that every aspect of this plan does not violate any persons rights; and that there should be no major health concern.
Retrieved from the Special Collections of Northern Arizona University Cline Library. Arizona Snowbowl upgrade proposed action. September, 2002.
This source is highly credible because it came directly from the Forest Supervisor himself, Jim Golden, whom holds a high position on this topic. Along with a letter from Mr. Golden, was the Arizona Snowbowl Facilities Improvement Proposed Action packet, which addressed the health, safety, and economic concerns regarding the usage of reclaimed water in the ski area and the upgrade of the Arizona Snowbowl ski resort. This document is very useful to my research because it gives specific details and facts that will allow me to effectively support my argument.
Final Environmental Impact Statement for Arizona Snowbowl Facilities Improvement. US Forest Service-Coconino National Forest. 22 April, 2009. <http://www.fs.fed.us/r3/coconino/nepa/2005/feis-snowbowl/index.shtml>.
This website, under the US Forest Service and Coconino National Forest, informs the reader about the decision made by the Coconino National Forest Supervisor, Nora Rasure, and how this puts the Arizona Snowbowl proposals into action. Along with this website are links that allow the reader to access a version of the FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR THE ARIZONA SNOWBOWL FACILITIES IMPROVEMENTS PROPOSAL in PDF form. This document describes each aspect of the proposal in great detail. This also allows me to support my argument with precise facts and data.
Flagstaff 2020. Community Profile. Flagstaff, AZ: Flagstaff 2020, 1996.
This book was created to envision what the future of Flagstaff would hold for it's community, based upon the current strengths, weaknesses, and issues of 1996. The Northern Arizona University, City of Flagstaff, Flagstaff Chamber of Commerce, Coconino County, Grand Canyon Trust, Coconino Community College, Flagstaff Unified School District, Northern Arizona Home Builders, Friends of Flagstaff's Future, and Citizens-at-Large unitized to sponsor this "visioning process". Information was gathered from previous years to 1996 to show the trends that took place, which was used to foretell the possible outcomes of what the year 2020 would behold. The information presented allows me to understand the changed that the Flagstaff community has undergone since then.
"Key dates in Snowbowl History." Arizona Daily Sun. 9 August, 2008. 22 April, 2009. <http://infoweb.newsbank.com/iwsearch/we/Info Web?p_product=AWNB&p_theme=aggregated5&p_action=doc&p_docid=1268B282A376ACA0&p_docnum=12&p_queryname=3>.
This article is from the Arizona Daily Sun, which makes it a credible source, was found through the News Bank Access World News database. Dates begin from the year 1938 to 2008, from the beginning of the Arizona Snowbowl to the Ninth Circuit Court approval for Snowbowl to continue with snowmaking. Years in between are "key dates" that reflect the major events of Snowbowl that took place. These dates give the reader a greater understanding of what the ski resort has gone through and it's current standing. I believe that certain dates will aid me in carrying out my argument and support main points.
Snowbowl FEIS Frequently Asked Questions. US Forest Service-Coconino National Forest. 22 April, 2009. <http://www.fs.fed.us/r3/coconino/nepa/2005/feis-snowbowl/snowbowl-faq.shtml#bestoption>.
This source, also under the US Forest Service and Coconino National Forest, gives many general facts based upon frequent questions that arise to the proposal by the Arizona Snowbowl. These facts and explanations assist the reader in fully understanding the concept of using reclaimed water and how it affects both the Flagstaff and Native American community. This site corresponds a lot to what I will try to get across to my reader; therefore, this is a great source to use in my research.
Snowmaking FAQ's. Arizona Snowbowl. 22 April, 2009. <http://www.arizonasnowbowl.com/news/snowmaking_qa.php>.
This site, from the Arizona Snowbowl website, also gives additional information to the Proposed Action that was put together by the Arizona Snowbowl and Forest Service. Specific facts and main points are addressed to each item that was included in the Arizona Snowbowl proposal. This is similar to the other US Forest Service and Coconino National Forest websites; however, this source has additional facts, and is quite simple to understand. This information is put in a list format, which makes statistical numbers easy to find, and I think this will be of great use to me.
Wastewater Reuse. Reclaim the Peaks. 22 April, 2009. <http://www.reclaimthepeaks.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=view_template&template ID=82>.
Reclaim the Peaks was put together to educate readers about reclaimed water and the upgrade plan set by Coconino National Forest and was organized by the Flagstaff Chamber of Commerce and the Flagstaff Ski Club. This website gives detailed information to all of the categories of possible counter argument. Information is given on the involvement with the Native American Tribes, the current conditions of the ski resort, the recreational opportunities, and reclaimed water. This site provides very useful information that will support my thesis.
Weeks, Michael A. Constructing Winter: Flagstaff and the culture of snow, 1937-1990. May 2007.
This book was written to partially fulfill the requirements for the Degree of Master of Arts In History by Michael A. Weeks at Northern Arizona University. Approved and signed by three individuals that have Ph.D.s make this publication a more credible and reliable source. Michael A. Weeks talks about the "cultural ideas about winter" in Flagstaff and how they have altered over the years. This also includes history upon the Arizona Snowbowl ski resort. Throughout the book, the author uses many facts and has many citations to show where he gathered his information.
Dawnylle Smith
Kacie Beagen
ENG 105
April 27, 2009
The San Francisco Peaks
The San Francisco Peaks, located north of Flagstaff and south of the Grand Canyon, hold great significance to both the city of Flagstaff and to the many Native Americans in the surrounding area. To more than 22 Native American tribes, this mountain is seen to be as a place of holiness. Additionally, the Arizona Snowbowl ski resort has been using this mountain as a resource to host approximately 30,000 to 180,000 tourists each skiing season (Save the Peaks Coalition). However, the number of tourists that actually participate in the recreational opportunities available is determined by the amount of snowfall that is received. This reliance on the amount of snowfall determines the ski season of Snowbowl and has lead to the proposal of the use of reclaimed wastewater to create snow, along with other extensions and upgrades that will benefit the ski resort. The use of reclaimed water to make snow would allow the Snowbowl to extend its skiing season and increase the recreational opportunities that it offers. Opposing groups have stated that the use of reclaimed water "desecrates" this sacred mountain and may actually pose as a health hazard. This proposal has already gone through the justice system and has reached the standards of drinking water, thus authorizing it to continue with the proposed actions.
The beginning of Snowbowl originated in 1938 and was constructed by the Civilian Conservation Corps, which were military-style camps composed of men who worked on community projects (Flagstaff: Past & Present, p74). The initial ski lift of that time was actually powered by a car engine. The ski area was first purchased by Northland Recreation in the year 1977, and later purchased by Arizona Snowbowl Limited Partnership in 1992. The first proposal of expansion was in 1969 and was approved by the U.S. Forest Service in 1979. This expansion included "a new lodge, a paved road and expanded parking, four new lifts and fifty acres of trails" (Save the Peaks Coalition). In 1983, the Hopi and Navajo tribe both filed lawsuits against the development of the access road to the peak, which was approved in 1980. However, the District of Columbia Circuit Court was not convinced that the development of this road violated any legal boundaries, and denied the lawsuit (Save the Peaks Coalition).
In October 2002, the proposal to upgrade infrastructures and the use of reclaimed water to make snow was filed by Arizona Snowbowl to the US Forest Service. Three years later, on March 8th, Coconino National Forest approved the use of reclaimed water on the mountain, which later led to both Tribal and environmental groups suing the Coconino National Forest. The Forest Services decision to make snow with reclaimed water was upheld by U.S. District Judge Paul Rosenblatt in January 2006, but was overturned later that year in September by a three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit Court of appeals who ruled on environmental and religious grounds (Arizona Daily Sun). Overturned once again, it was decided that reclaimed water snowmaking does not violate religious rights and is approved by 11 judges of the 9th Circuit panel.
Obviously, the use of reclaimed wastewater has generated a controversy with Native Americans and their religious beliefs. In the first 9th Circuit Court hearing, attorneys representing the tribes claimed that the proposal of the ski resort desecrates the sacred land. This does not hold true, because the ski area that is used by Snowbowl only occupies 800 acres. 800 acres of the San Francisco Peaks is only about 1% of the mountain (Onsite Water Treatment). According to Coconino National Forest, all regulations and laws, including the National Historic Preservation Act, the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, National Environmental Policy Act, and Presidential Executive Order 130007 "Indian Sacred Sites", are all being followed by the Coconino National Forest.
Another controversy that has arisen is one involving the pharmaceuticals and other "contaminants" that have been found in the reclaimed water. According to the Arizona Snowbowl Upgrade Proposed Action of 2002, "The Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ) allows reclaimed water with an 'A' rating to be used in snowmaking; the water that would be provided by the Rio de Flag plant exceeds this standard." Both state and federal water regulating agencies, the Environmental Protection Agency and Arizona Department of Environment Quality, regulate the health concerns that are associated with reclaimed water. Both of these agencies have agreed that using reclaimed water to create synthetic snow hold no hazardous health threat and have approved of this proposal.
There are two water treatment plants in the city of Flagstaff that carry out the procedures needed to cleanse the wastewater. These two industries are the Wildcat Hill Plant and the Rio de Flag Water Reclamation Plant. Both plants supply reclaimed water to certain facilities across Flagstaff. Golf courses and recreational places are supplied reclaimed water from the Wildcat Hill Plant. While the Rio de Flag Water Reclamation Plant supplies cemeteries, public school playgrounds, and parks (City of Flagstaff Arizona). The use of reclaimed waters on these public areas is nothing new. During the summer is when these places use treated water, however, during the winter season, the water is released into the Rio de Flag. In March of 2002, the Arizona Snowbowl made an agreement with the Flagstaff City Council, which stated that from November 1st to the end of February, 1. 5 million gallons per day of reclaimed water would be provided to the ski resort each year (Arizona Snowbowl Upgrade Proposed Action, p. 1). It was also estimated in the Snowbowl Proposal that of the 1. 5 million gallons per day of reclaimed water being transported, over 60% of this will be used be used in the toilet services of the Prairie and Agassiz day lodges.
The use of reclaimed wastewater in Flagstaff is nothing new. According to the Flagstaff 2020 Community Profile, the treated effluent has been used for irrigation purposes since 1994. There are five sources that supply Flagstaff with potable water, which is from the Inner Basin, Upper Lake Mary, Lake Mary Wellfield, Woody Mary Wellfield, and the Coconino Aquifer. The amounts of water that these resources supply depend upon the amount of snowpack each winter, along with temperatures. Therefore, the use of reclaimed water would not only benefit the Snowbowl, it would aid in the recharging of the Inner Basin water supply.
According to the Arizona Snowbowl Upgrade Proposed Action of September 2002, synthetic snow that is created from the class A reclaimed water will be distributed to support approximately 203. 5 acres on the mountain slope. This is within the Special Use Permit boundaries, which are boundaries that have been established by the Forest Service. Arizona Snowbowl has been under the Forest Service SUP for 62 years, as of September 2002, which provides the Arizona Snowbowl with a total of 777 acres of skiing terrain. There is also a Comfortable Carrying Capacity of 2825 skiers that the Snowbowl must not exceed, and even with these proposed improvements, this number will not change.
Along with the use of reclaimed water for snowmaking, other proposed actions submitted to the U.S. Forest Service include:
The upgrading of current lifts,
Installing one new chairlift, four surface lifts,
Development of new skiing terrain,
Development of snow playing/tubing area and half pipe, and
Improvements on the existing infrastructures.
Below is a picture of Snowbowl's planned expansion:
Source: Forest Service DEIS
Below is picture that depicts the area where snowmaking will occur:
Source: Forest Service DEIS
The expansion of the Snowbowl would, of course, include tree thinning and areas to be
graded and stumped/smoothed near the Agassiz and Sunset area. The area where tree thinning will take place is approximately 47. 4 acres and is designed to prevent negative effects to the current conditions of the environment. Additionally, nearly 87 acres of the skiing terrain will be stumped/smoothed. During the construction of the ski area, the forest health is taken into deep consideration, as "scarring" is a major consequence that is trying to be avoided. Thinning of the trees is designed to remove mainly dead and unhealthy dying timber. This technique was devised to maintain 80% of the existing vegetation.
The graded and stumped/smoothed techniques were designed to revegetate the sections that were disturbed. The Final Environmental Impact Statement for Arizona Snowbowl Facilities Improvements of February 2005 explains the earthwork as:
Graded areas would be carefully stripped of topsoil resources, reshaped and re-contoured, followed by redistribution of topsoil and immediate revegetation. In areas to be stumped/smoothed, rocks and stumps protruding from the surface would be disposed of. Disturbed areas would be promptly revegetated (Arizona Snowbowl Facilities Improvements Final Environmental Impact Statement, p.2-9).
An area that will be developed after this earthwork has been completed is the snowplaying/tubing area. This area is very beneficial to the city of Flagstaff since it fulfills the public demand of having an area to sled. Sledding hills and other "in-town" ski areas have been removed to provide room for growing city (Weeks, p.55). Many injuries and traffic management issues have resulted due to people parking alongside the Snowbowl road to sled and slide. The tubing capacity of this area can occupy up to 600 tubes at one time.
Although some may say that the Snowbowl is outside of the Flagstaff limits and that it does not pay taxes to the city of Flagstaff, this ski resort attracts many tourists that will eventually go into town to buy certain items. This will have a positive net effect upon the winter economy and increase revenues (Coconino National Forest). Additionally, the extended season of Snowbowl will create job opportunities and increase the local job employment. According to an Arizona Republic article written by Mark Shaffer, "The ski area also provides about 400 jobs and infuses about $20 million a year into Flagstaff's economy." The use of reclaimed water in snowmaking will help make this happen since the skiing season will be more consistent and will not have to rely heavily upon the amount of snowfall that is received.
After several years of court appeals, the Snowbowl comes closer and closer to getting court approval to go through with the proposed actions. Although the many Native American tribes that oppose this issue declare that snowmaking on the skiing slope negatively affects their ability to practice their religion, all of the regulations and laws regarding religions are being followed by the Coconino National Forest, meaning that these proposals do not violate their religious rights in any way. Additionally, the use of reclaimed water has been used since 1994 in Flagstaff and the water to be used for the snowmaking is of high quality and very clean. The reclaimed water to be used has been approved by both the EPA and ADEQ for snowmaking. The earthwork that is to be done to expand the skiing terrain has been modified in order to keep from "scarring" the landscape. The economy of Flagstaff will also have a positive benefit to the extended skiing season that the Snowbowl will have if reclaimed wastewater is allowed on the skiing area. All in all, the approval of the Arizona Snowbowl proposal will create a better longer skiing season, which meets all standards and will benefit the city of Flagstaff.
